ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e6761	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen! I would ask you to take your seats and open the meeting. The unreaded parts of the official protocols of the 90. ==References== ==References====External links== Parliament resolution on the proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to turnover taxes. Meeting of 22. In December 2010, the Parliament's Directorate remained unanswered and undisputed. Deputies of Muchitsch, Jakob Auer, Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein, Doppler, Grastaur, Ing. Hofer, Kickl, List and Tadler. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e6795	For this meeting, the Federal Chancellery on the representation of members of the Federal Government who are present in another Member State of the European Union has made the following communication: The Federal Minister for the Interior Dr. Maria Fekter is represented by the Federal Minister for Science and Research Dr. Beatrix Karl. [[09:06:56]] Absence of mandate and fishing
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e6825	The Federal Electoral Authority has received the notification that Mrs. Marianne Hagenhofer has renounced her mandate and has been appointed to the National Council at her place of representative Harry Rudolf Buchmayr. Since the election permit is already in place and the person mentioned is present in the house, I will immediately make his fishing observation. After reading the vow formula by Mrs. Mag. Lohfeyer will have to do his fishing with the words “I vow”. Please, Mrs. Writer.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e6864	“They will be vowed unbreakable fidelity of the Republic of Austria, constant and full observation of the constitutional laws and all other laws and conscientious fulfilment of your obligations.”
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e6886	I warmly welcome the new Members in our midst. [[General condolences.]] I announce that the meeting will be transferred live by the ORF by 1 p.m. [[09:08:13]] Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e6920	We arrive at the current hour with the theme: “The Success of Austrian Labour Market Policy” Before I give the floor to the first speaker, I would like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that we are already in the current session, namely in the current hour, and that the ORF will forward the session live. That's why I'm also trying to lower noise levels. First of all, Mr Katzian. As the first speaker, you have a speaking time of 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e6950	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen in front of the televisions! If one follows the current economic discussions, it seems that the most severe economic crisis has been overcome since 1945. It was an economic crisis, it was a financial crisis that began on the financial markets and was relatively quickly flooded into the real economy, with all the consequences of an economic crisis for the real economy. And these consequences were a massive breach of orders in the Austrian industry and also a sharp decline in industrial services. The fear in the population, the fear of the workers and their families, the fear of mass unemployment, the accelerated deregulation of working conditions, the absence of wages and the rounding of zero wages – all of this was in the room – was very great. Today, we know that the reactions and also the active measures taken by the Federal Government have been correct and successful. Today, ladies and gentlemen, the workers can rely on social democracy when it comes to actively leading the fight for jobs in this country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We also know, ladies and gentlemen, that strong trade unions and the social partners in this country have implemented what has been made possible by measures adopted here in this House. With these activities and measures, large groups were prevented from making a basket money in the crisis, and it was prevented from those who meant that the crisis was a good opportunity to do all that was not possible in the past few years. I recall the discussion about overtime at zero and various other things, where some have meant, we can now do quite well in the crisis. – All of this did not come in this form and did not happen. If today the European Union, OECD and other Austrian labour market policies are being given a good witness if everywhere it is recognised that the impact of the economic crisis in Austria has been far less dramatic than in other countries, especially in other European countries, it is clear that we must give an excellent witness to our Social Minister, who is behind all these measures in the labour market policy. And I'm telling you, Rudi Hundstorfer, we're very proud of what you, what we've done here together. Thank you very much! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] With over 3.3 million active employees, Austria can record a new employment record in December. We have around 60 000 jobs more than in the previous year and were able to finalise the job loss in the year-end crisis. It is therefore clear that total unemployment fell by 3.4 percent in December too. And I am particularly pleased that the trend that youth unemployment is falling has continued. All these are impressive reports, are impressive figures here and those, as I mean, also show that the steps we have taken have been the right steps. What steps were those? I'll remind you again: We have drawn up a record budget for active labour market policies, and we have put in place important measures. The main political objective of all these measures was to ensure that employment, wherever possible, would prevent people from getting into unemployment, and where people become unemployed, would also take measures to address the associated risk of poverty. The first step we have taken is the labour market package I here in the House, where we have chosen short work as an instrument to combat this crisis, where we have put in place short work measures to prevent people from getting into unemployment. At the time when most of the short-time work was done in this country, over 60 000 colleagues were involved in the measures of short-time work. If it had not been possible to extend short-time work to 18 months here in the House at the beginning of the crisis, this instrument, which then enabled the social partners to establish a framework collective agreement, would have been possible in the enterprises' business agreements, which were ultimately aimed at the fact that the people in short-time work could not have been able to secure their income to a high degree, up to 90 percent. This was a very important first step that was taken here. Another important step in this context was to link short-time work with measures of qualification, because we have said that it is not enough to get the job in the crisis, so to speak, because after the crisis we want to take advantage of the opportunity to start the economic upswing accordingly. The time has therefore been used to put in place measures of qualification in the crisis. It was therefore necessary to create this combination of short work and qualification, and it was necessary to make improvements in the work foundations. We then strangled the II labour market package relatively quickly thereafter and thus proved that we are able to respond to certain developments. We have increased short-term work aid from the seventh month onwards and we have extended to a maximum of 24 months. That is to say, we have adapted an instrument that has existed before at the beginning of the crisis and have developed and adapted in the course of the crisis. – This is active policy, which is an active response to economic and also to world economic developments. And I am very glad that this was successful because it was only during this second phase that the corresponding security took place. In addition to these measures, there have been a number of accompanying measures necessary to maintain employment at this level that we have finally found during the crisis and immediately thereafter. I remember the Youth Foundation. I would like to remind you of the improvements in education. I recall the new regulation of part-time age, improvements in solida The Commission's proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to turnover taxes. As the next step, we have prepared the 2010 labour market and qualification package, with the aim of creating even more quality in this area and investing even more in training and preparation for post-crisis. We've created the qualification bonus. It has doubled regional skilled workers' qualification to 10,000. We have set an integration offensive within the framework of the AMS with German courses for 21 500 people. – I could continue this list at any rate. If we look into the future, ladies and gentlemen, then we see that there are two priorities that need to be dealt with directly from my point of view. One is the large area of social and care services. The aim is to create appropriate financial frameworks so that people working in this area can also find appropriate jobs and a corresponding payment. This has a great economic effect, it will do a lot in this area, and I expect the federal states to invest a large part of the money they receive now, thanks to the budget decisions, in purpose and in care to ensure employment accordingly. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] ==References====External links== In May and the expiry of the transitional provisions, there are the same rules for all workers whether they come from the old or from the new accession countries. I am very glad that we succeeded in preparing at the social partners' level for a wage and social dumping law. I am very glad that when this law comes and we adopt this law here in the House, it will also ensure that measures against dumping and exploitation are taken. I think it is precisely these measures that we need, in addition to the Red and White Red Card and other legislative novels that are currently under review, to prevent the opening of labour markets from being used to incite and excite fear. Rather, we must ensure that appropriate material activities and measures create good framework conditions, so that these major fears, which exist in many parts of the population, do not become reality to the extent that they have been. I think we are well prepared for the future. – Rudi Hundstorfer, thank you!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e7051	Mr Hundstorfer spoke on a preliminary opinion. The speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e7072	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the National Council! You have now heard a few figures from unemployment statistics. You allow me to give you a few figures from employee statistics. We had 3.4 million people in employment at the end of December. This means that we are about 60 000 more than the previous year's figure. One can claim with fug and law and also with pride that the Loss of employment during the crisis has thus been more than waged, as there have never been as many people in Austria in a December 2010 as they did in December 2010. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] This increase in employment is based on a very broad foundation: It affects all the federal states, both women and men, as well as young people, the elderly and – I say so very consciously – Austrian and non-Austrian citizens. We have this increase in employment everywhere. However, we also have a delicate yet existing increase in the retirement age on the one hand, and on the other hand, the birth-like generations of the post-war generation are getting a little older. As a result, there is also, and this is very, very remarkable, an increase of 30 000 in employment among the group of over 50. That's something we, I think, too little attention. In this regard, we have brought a very significant catch-up in Austria in recent years, for example, since early 2005, the employment rate of 55-64-year-olds has increased by 12.6 percentage points, and we currently have an employment rate of 43.1 percent. As a result, the increase in the quota was almost three times as strong as on average in the European Union. Almost another country has seen this increase in these groups. There is no question that the economy is a lot better. This also means that much more labour is being sought. At the end of December, 28 890 jobs were free – a 22 percent increase over the previous year. This too is part of what explains why we are now very often presented as a best practice model at European level and why our activities are also very often referred to by the European Commission. I was only on Monday at the European Council for Employment of Ministers for Labour and Social Affairs, and only the list of colleagues with whom I had to have bilateral talks shows that many want to hear our best practice model very easily and want to learn and that small Austria has been able to set a lot of impulses here. What is also very encouraging, and I would also like to say this: The population of the above-mentioned unemployed, including taking into account the participants, fell by 18 000. And this trend is continuing. With yesterday's day, 21 800 people were less unemployed than in the year before, including the training participants. I know these are daily numbers, not a question at all, but it is important if the daily trend lasts what the year has begun, namely a daily minus – in this case. If you see this in bookkeeping, those among you who have companies and have a minute daily would despair, but as a labour market politician you are looking forward to a daily minus, because in this case a daily minus is something very, very positive. On the one hand, there is no question that we need to apply caution, but on the other hand, there is no question that the economic researchers are predicting a growth in GDP of 2.2 percent and a further increase in employment. But I also say very consciously here: Of course, everyone/any unemployed person is one-to-one, and of course we have to do everything we can to further combat unemployment. However, I would also like to look at one or two projects in particular, because a project was highly criticised, which was – or is – the project of the minimum security of demand. In this regard, many, even here in the house, have said that will be the hammock, there will be nothing more going out at all and people will solidify themselves. – I can tell you that the first data shows a reality that we have predicted, for which we have also worked a lot. In Vienna and Lower Austria alone, the labour market service has been able to provide 1,900 workers of minimum insurance in employment since the introduction of the minimum guarantee in September to the end of the year, i.e. only in these few months. During the same period, 4,000 persons accepted a training offer from the AMS. And we're on our way to accomplish what we wanted to achieve: We make taxpayers out of social benefits. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] That's what's behind it. And especially on the example of these two federal states, which are the largest federal states in Austria from their population, you can see: It works, it works! You just have to look at it. You have to invest – yes, no question at all – but people want to get into employment again. I am also aware that the end of the transitional periods by 1. Of course, on the one hand, a political competitor uses May 2011 for a certain polemic, but on the other hand there is concern among people, which is not a question at all. Here again, however, I should like to point out that many, many studies, many discussions, including foreign ministers of labour, especially with the ministers of employment of the neighbouring countries, show one thing very clearly: The figures we expect – 15 000, 20 000, 25 000 – are realistic. They are labour market policyable. And what you should not forget: Austria has benefited greatly from this Easter expansion. Austria's economic growth after 2004 is largely due to the development of these additional markets and investment opportunities for Austrian companies. We are well prepared for this opening, and, above all, the rules on wage and social dumping to be decided here soon in the House will also ensure fair competition and also ensure that there will not be a competition for eviction. We have already introduced a project, which was decided here in the House in December under the Budget Support Act, into the start-up phase and we are working very intensively on it, namely “Fit2Work”. What is meant by this expression? – It is simply about ensuring the long-term pension system, where we need to respond to demographic development with fewer young people and more and more older people in the labour market and take appropriate steps, through maintaining the working capacity of older workers. And this programme, this Austrian programme for a proactive social policy, is simply about maintaining this ability to work, helping people to maintain their employability and preventing disease-related early retirement from the labour market. “Fit2Work” is an offer of advice for all, for all issues of work and for all health issues. I have already said that every unemployed person is one or more people, and we must continue to pursue a very active labour market policy. As a result, this year the AMS will continue to have the third highest funding budget available in the history of the AMS and, of course, it will also be a matter of moving forward with the optimization, efficiency improvement of the available resources. This means that even more targeted training measures, even better coordinated measures with the various Sectors of the Austrian economy. Here, too, the first programmes, particularly in Lower Austria and in Vienna, but also in all the other Länder, have already come into the implementation phase, with a view to developing new programmes, namely to co-ordinating even more with the operational level as regards: What do we need, what is necessary?, and then simply proceed accordingly. I would like to add a few more aspects: The stable demand for consumption, the strong recovery of exports, are essential cornerstones of economic recovery. As a result, on the one hand, demand for labour in the production of goods increased, on the other hand, the service sector of the job engine has already been mentioned by honourable Members Katzian in particular. In the product-producing sector, demand for labour increased, with unemployment also falling by 22 percent in this area. Currently, 39 percent more open jobs are reported in the product-producing sector at the AMS than in the previous year. There will continue to be a change in the Austrian workforce, towards the very many so-called service professions. At a special health conference yesterday, I also put the figures very clearly on the table for this sector, the challenges we face on the one hand, but also the opportunities we have on the other. We need highly qualified people there, and on the one hand we need to train these highly qualified people, which we must train, but on the other hand there is a job guarantee for these people in all cases, only when they complete training, because these jobs exist. Coming to the end: I think we have brought a very difficult year in 2010, but a year 2010 shows that an active labour market policy, an active labour market policy of looking forward and not looking forward, an active labour market policy that gives all groups of the population the opportunity to pay off, otherwise we would not be European champions in unemployment, but "European champions" in this case means that we have the lowest rates of Europe as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e7187	I draw attention to the fact that the speaking time of all other participants at the current hour according to § 97a Abs. 6 of the Rules of Procedure shall not exceed 5 minutes. The first is Mrs Csörgits. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e7212	Madam President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! My two previous speakers have shown in a very remarkable way how positive Austria is in relation to the figures on the labour market. This shows that the measures put forward by this Federal Government have been a good way of developing, renovating, research, on the one hand, economic programmes that stimulate the labour market economy, on the other hand, in programmes of development, renovation and research. They were not only a good way of doing so, because we have the lowest unemployment rate or one of the lowest unemployment rates in the European Union, but also because we have managed together to save many people in Austria the fate of unemployment, the fate of hopelessness, the fate of poverty, the fate of future prospectlessness. On this we can very, very, very Be proud, and I am very glad that our Federal Government has taken this path. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Prince.]] We have not only succeeded in keeping the unemployment rate low, but we have also succeeded in absorbing the deficit caused by the economic crisis in the context of job migration in recent years and in getting much more people into employment than last year. Of course – this too has already been said – every unemployed person is a unemployed person/a unemployed person too much for us. Therefore, I can only stress again and again that the AMS with its qualified employees is available to the labour-seekers with advice and deed. Qualification programmes are designed to make people fit for the labour market again very quickly in order to keep as little as possible the tensions that people have to spend on unemployment. On this occasion I would like to thank the excellent employees of the AMS very much for the excellent and qualified work. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Despite the fact that the unemployment rate has declined, it is nevertheless true that we have a very high budget in relation to the resources for labour market policy. This is very important and very necessary in order to make further forward-looking good work as well. However, what is particularly important to me in this context is the fact that half of the resources of active labour market policy are also focused on actions, specifically for women's employment. This is important to ensure, on the one hand, that it is easier for women to leave the labour market after a family break, to get them back into the work process more quickly. And the second seems also important to me to make women more fit for so-called non-typical women's occupations. On this occasion, let me also take a look at an item on the agenda, which we will still decide on today. I am very glad that we are going to change the equal treatment law together today, to decide a novel on the equal treatment law, which will have the substance that in Austria there will be more transparency, more disclosure of salaries, that in future women and men will simply have a better overview of what they deserve. This is an important change, namely, that we can finally work together to expose the so unfair differences between men and women's incomes, which are not based on collective agreements, but are simply so-called hidden discrimination. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I consider this new law to be excellent, important and necessary, and I would also like to thank all those involved in it, both the social partners and the two ministries. A good law that we will decide together today! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e7275	Mr Haubner has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e7298	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Let's take a look at the topic from another side: What would be the proud balance of our Social Minister without the entrepreneurs? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Founders create 66 000 new jobs!, titles an Austrian daily newspaper and says: “On average, each new company created 2.3 jobs in the previous year...” And on top of that: “It’s something like a quiet job effect that goes on the account of local business founders every year. In total, 29 221 entrepreneurs created 66 000 new jobs last year." Today, if we have achieved a proud record of 3.3 million employees, a record level of employment, this is certainly a first priority for entrepreneurs. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The economic forecasts for 2011 also show us that the current positive trend on the labour market will continue. The successes are not only due to the actions of the Federal Government in the crisis which my previous speakers have already outlined – they have only been able to act supportively, ladies and gentlemen – we owe this success primarily to the entrepreneurs who have placed the crisis on their proven employees and kept them in their businesses. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In part, the companies also took under-loading to keep employees and secure them socially. There were hardly any redundancies, and therefore companies were able to resort to their best-known employees after this crisis and after the economic boom, and to act quickly and continue to be successful. This is the only way to achieve the current level of record employment. Our entrepreneurs are the guarantee for secure jobs in Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Once again, our small and medium-sized companies have proved that they are the backbone of the domestic economy and give people stability and security even in difficult times. It is our small and medium-sized enterprises, which secure 62% of jobs and provide 100 000 young people in vocational training for the future and have implemented more than € 315 billion last year. [[Abg. Oillinger: That's not an advertising show, is it?]] Without this great flexibility of domestic businesses in our country, 86 000 jobs would have been lost in this difficult time, ladies and gentlemen. Calculate what this would have cost our state! [[Abg. Oils: Yes, it's been expensive anyway!]] All wage statements obtained prove that the companies are very well aware of their responsibilities for their employees and are also aware of them accordingly. It is simply a fact that it is the companies that give work to people in the country and thus ensure security and stability. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Therefore, Mr Minister, we believe that it is absolutely necessary to shape the framework conditions for these entrepreneurs in such a way that we continue to have so many employees in the country. Ladies and gentlemen! If Federal Chancellor Faymann announced in December 2010 that the labour factor has to be relieved, I can only give him the right. That's the right announcement. Yes, the labour factor has to be relieved, because this relief gives both employers and workers the flexibility needed to boost consumption and make the economic engine in the country so brutal again. But this way of remission, and we hope that we will agree, cannot be achieved through the burden of property or additional taxes, but it must be our common objective to relieve the factor of labour in such a way that additional labour costs are also reduced. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker.]] Mr Federal Minister, I am convinced that you too agree with me that an increase in additional labour costs – for any fund financing – should not come. We already have one of the highest tax rates in Europe in Austria, and we should therefore continue to work together to reduce the tax rate. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I have already mentioned that entrepreneurs are the backbone of the economy and secure jobs in that country. So we're gonna have to do it again. That is why we are invited, with courage and imagination, to address the structures in our country and to demand and create slim and efficient administration and reform our social systems, instead of stagnation and bureaucracy. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] [[Calls to the Greens.]] We should not be shy about setting up entrepreneurial parameters. That is why: renew instead of tax! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e7400	Mr. Strache, President-in-Office of the Council, has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e7422	Madam President. Mr Sozialminister! Ladies and gentlemen! I do not have to point out that, despite the current labour market data you mentioned, Mr Sozialminister, and which have become a little better, we cannot lean back in Austria and that there is no reason for the great joyous mood you have tried to present. There is a relief on the labour market, but it is still catastrophic enough. We have over 300,000 unemployed people in our country. Despite record employment, more than 300 000 Austrians are unemployed today. And therefore, there is no reason to spread such a joyful mood as you have done today, but one has to deal very seriously with the matter. Of course, my predecessor is right to say that this situation has become possible by the smaller and medium-sized entrepreneurs, who, fortunately, have also managed, through their strength, their work and their entrepreneurship, to give more people employment. Of course, it is the labor of people in this country who have contributed to the fact that we now have record employment. But we must always ensure that we do not only skip record employment, but the Austrians have nothing of it because any other people – wherever – then get these jobs. It is precisely this situation that we are facing, Mr Social Minister. I note again and again that you are always trying to put yourself in the foreground with self- praise, so to speak, with lohudelei, that you cover up that positive development, this little relief we now perceive by your ==References== May 2011 will be threatened if the expansion of the labour market is to come, especially on the day of work, namely on 1 May 2011. ==References====External links== [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This opening will therefore come because you have not been prepared for more than a year to negotiate with the European Union, with the Commission, because the Treaties, which were once concluded, unfortunately did not meet God. Indeed, contracts have been defined, where it has been said a very long time ago, that it makes sense to open the labour market to our Eastern European neighbouring countries only if there are partially similar standards, both social and income conditions. But these are not given! This development does not even exist in the Eastern European countries. Today, income is not even 50 percent of Austrian income, but clearly below it. It is therefore necessary to assume responsibility on the part of the Federal Government and to say that, if the standards defined at the time and which we have hoped for are not met, an extension of the transitional periods must be negotiated. But you refused! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That's your responsibility! They endanger Austrian workers. This leads to a displacement process, to wage dumping. Of course! This, of course, will also be interesting for the worker – and we have over three million unemployed in the neighbouring countries of Eastern Europe! There you can shake your head, but yes, there are over three million unemployed in the neighbouring countries. In the Czech Republic, there are 400 000 unemployed, in Slovakia 400 000, in Hungary around 500 000 and in Poland 1.7 million unemployed, who naturally want to leave where they have no prospect and opportunity, and are pushing in here. And these people will then be willing to work here in the lower wage area, which naturally creates wage dumping and Austrian workers, who can expect a corresponding salary today because of their employment, will be forced out because there will be cheaper workers who will be willing to accept jobs in the lower collective contract area. And that's what's going on. In May 2011 the labour market was heightened. I say clearly and clearly: We want to protect Austrian workers' interests. Yes, and we live the “Austria first” policy. Yes, and this is a matter of greater emphasis in our country and also enforced in the labour market policy process, in the social policy process. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It will then be used by many people who come to us from these countries to enter the work process and, as a result, have no interest in working. And for many day commuters who come to us, this is a wonderful salary, which is partly three times as high as at home in Slovakia, in the Czech Republic or in Hungary the average income. We will then make calculations of what will become possible abuse in these areas as a result. And that's exactly the point. We have also discovered areas of abuse – you shake your head – where Romanian pensioners who receive 150 € pension per month – I come to the final rate – can be reported here at the top so that they can get the compensation allowance rate, which makes the Republic of Austria 40 million € per year [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] Pays. Such abuses must be stopped, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e7521	Mrs Mag. Honey's coming to terms now. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e7593	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the title of this current hour has already caused a lot of self-devotion, but what you, Mr Minister, Mr Katzian, Mrs Csörgits, Mr Haubner, have told us now is already quite a strong piece, is quite a lot! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] You really are doing all the serious things, as if everything was right on the Austrian labour market now – you really are doing so. This only shows the surface polished by you, let's look at it a little below! You know very well: One million people in Austria are currently only more atypical – they are mainly women. Every second woman employed is only more atypically employed. All these people no longer have regular full - time working relationships, although over 85 percent of them want to do so. They all have only part-time contracts, fixed-term contracts, free service contracts, are temporary workers or even minor employees without any insurance protection. But you don't address that at all, not with a syllable. You're pretending you're all right. But I'm looking deeper, I'm scratching your paint even more. – Mr Minister, in your own social report, it can be read that over 200 000 people work in this country and are still at risk of poverty. 130,000 of them alone – 130,000 people! – work full time and cannot live on the income of their work! Mr Minister, you are pretending to be all right on the Austrian labour market! I'm asking you to get more involved. There are so many people with us who work hard, work a lot, and just make a lot too little, unacceptablely little for that. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I would like to take out a group; a group that we all have more or less often to deal with: Hairdressers. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a profession that at first sight seems attractive to many young women, but if you look more closely, you can see what hard work this is. There are working hours that are extremely stressful, customer-friendly opening hours up to 20 o'clock, 21 o'clock are now more the rule than the exception. This whole stress leads to that hardly anyone can stay in this job for a very long time, because there are massive health problems. Or who of you knows a hairdresser who's over 50 years old when it's not the boss? - I only know very few. Apart from all the stress, the nuclear medical problems include: They all have back problems – sooner or later – and there are major problems with allergies because there are still no or far too few protective gloves worn while washing. The skin dries out absolutely, becomes porous and therefore extremely susceptible to allergies and infections. These are the conditions of hairdressers. And how much do these people get in view of these conditions, this hard work with a high health risk? How much do they get? – 1 122 € gross for 40 hours full-time work is the minimum wage for hairdressers and hairdressers. I say this is a scandal, Minister! You've got to interfere. We've got to get all of us involved. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Dr. Königshofer.]] We political leaders must not accept that there are more than 20 000 women in this sector in Austria who have income at risk of poverty. We could do something about it: We can adopt an existing minimum wage law. And in the future, we all may be able to pay more for €1.30 per hairdresser visit – that's all we've done – only that would be enough to guarantee more than 20,000 women in Austria a life-saving income. That would be enough. Mr Minister, I don't want to hear any more statistics, I don't want to hear them anymore! I want every person in Austria seeking a job to be guaranteed by us that this is a “g’scheiter” job, with fair conditions and a fair payment. Mr Minister, if we have achieved this, if you have achieved it, then we can rejoice, then you must rejoice, but in the present situation, certainly not here today.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e7672	Mr Dolinschek is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e7693	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! According to the speeches of the speakers of the coalition parties and the Minister of the Federal Republic of Germany, everything in Austria would have to be in vain – but that is not the case. I think it is rather immense when SPÖ and ÖVP are talking about a positive trend change on the labour market, talk about low unemployment during the economic crisis in 2010 and point out that the appropriate measures have been taken. I would like to say the following: Of course, it is important to take action, but it is also important that companies receive jobs. In the economy there are workers and employers, only by both together is the economy possible at all, the economy does not work without employees. - That's one. In my opinion, it is important that we have a high number of employees – the Federal Minister speaks of 3.4 million employees. However, we also have 302,000 unemployed. While it is true that the number of unemployed has become smaller compared to the December of the previous year, we also know that 61 000 people are in training courses and that unemployment has increased by 1 percent, especially among over 50 years of age. As far as older workers are concerned, it has not actually been countered. But above all, in the fight against the threat of poverty, Mr Federal Minister, nothing has gone on at all so far. We have a million people with atypical employment in Austria – that is one third of the employees in Austria or 12 to 13 percent of the population. We'd have to think if someone who works, Still living on the poverty threshold. There must be reversed, Minister of State! [[BZÖ and Abg. Bitch.]] It can't be that you're going to work and can hardly live on it. In spite of work on the border between poverty and poverty, 350 000 people live, so to speak, the working poor in Austria. That should give us proper thought. The opening of the labour market by 1. May 2011 will, of course, lead to an intensification of the situation. Klubobmann Strache just mentioned it: ==References== May is the day of work. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grosz.]] They always say: Let's get up to work! But please don't hang up to me so much that none of the Austrians will be able to do it anymore! That should not be the case, Minister of State. [[In the case of the BZÖ, and the members of the FPÖ.]] Mr. Federal Minister, you have announced plans that, at the opening of the labour market from May 2011 onwards, access to the domestic labour market – especially the construction industry is very endangered – should be monitored more strongly, and you have a draft anti-poverty dumping law. So far, I haven't seen anything of it. The local health phone should, as well as the KIAB, carry out more controls on whether workers are also notified and whether minimum wage provisions are complied with. I have to say one thing – Mr Muchich is not here today –: The trade union Bau-Holz has said, namely, the head of the trade union Bau-Holz, Johann Holper, and his vice-president Josef Muchitsch, that there is too little staff at the regional health office and at the KIAB to carry out these checks at all, Minister of State. How is that supposed to work now? They have already encountered resistance in the ÖVP and in the Chamber of Commerce, now also at the Bau-Holz union. I'm saying it just doesn't work. We will have problems with social security, health insurance and so on when wage dumping comes. The Austrian companies will be at risk as they cannot compete with these companies. The wage ratio between these countries and Austria is still 1 : 3 or 1 : 5. That's a big difference. The labour market will increase, and foreign companies will increasingly provide employees to Austrian companies. How this is to be controlled is also open. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, especially the coalition parties! In this area, nails must be made with heads, loopholes must be stopped and a fair system for the future must be created!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e7779	Mrs. Dr. Oberhauser is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e7800	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Mr Klubobmann Strache, your example of minimum security and day-to-day commuting, this connection that you have brought, underestimates any home mind that people need to raise. [[Abg. May. Stefan: These are reported here!]] Now I ask you: What is the definition of a daily commuter for Austria? [[Abg. May. Stefan: No, it's about the ones reported here! You didn't listen to me!]] –This is not a daily pendulum that has been reported here! – By definition, a daily commuter has his residence abroad and comes here and does work here, which the Austrian market, the Austrian small and medium-sized enterprises need. [[Abg. Strache: You didn't look after once again!]] [[Abg. Strache: Listen once and don't say something wrong!]] [[Abg. May. Stefan: These are two different things! You didn't listen!]] That means, by definition, a daily commuter works and is not a minimum insurance beneficiary. Her last comedian called "Wiener Sage." What you bring here is “Strache fairy tale. ” [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Strache: That's a real nonsense that you suck!]] It is nothing but that you try to heat up human groups in a very unqualified way against each other. [[Abg. May. Stefan: First listen and then...!]] Again: Someone who's commuting here works here! [[Abg. Strache: You should hear what I said and not say the wrong thing!]] On the second question of the opening of the east and the threat that you are repeatedly putting into the room: You know that in the near future we will decide on the law against wage and social dumping, you also know that we have a red and white red card that will bring a regulated move to Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: Especially for EU citizens!]] [[Abg. Street: Because EU citizens do not have “no” travel freedom!]] If you had looked at the numbers, the people who emigrated to Austria to work here, which qualifications they have, then you would have to know that in the last five years the people who have come to Austria – you know that a lot of people are coming to Austria – in their qualifications are almost half in the trade union framework. [[Abg. You have no idea!]] [[Abg. Strache: Do you really think the viewers are so stupid?]] [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: You know what's going on, literally?- Oh, my God!]] That means that this damoclesian difficulty is that now the auxiliary workers who work here at or even under the minimum wage are really true, is simply wrong. The law against wage and social dumping enables very strict controls to ensure that collective contractual conditions are respected, not just the minimum collective but the collective that is paid in this company. [[Abg. Strache: Only with the lowest collective agreement can you no longer feed a family in Austria today! Don't say that!]] Mr Strache, you would have to know that it is already possible today if there is still no strong works council in a farm that Austrians can work under the collective agreement under the overpaid collective agreement that may exist. [[Abg. Strache: But you can no longer feed on a wage under the collective contract in Austria!]] That means it depends on how the control works. [[Abg. Strache: An Austrian skilled worker must at least earn more than the collective contract is defined!]] We know that in Austria we have very strong trade unions and very strong works councils, and we also know that the social partners work in Austria. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Bitch.]] I think we're well prepared for this east opening. The trade unions are already working closely with the works councils and the trade unions in the surrounding surrounding area to make people fit for what they have to expect of wages here, and to avoid exactly what they can get here for wages that are below the level! Painting So you don't have a threat to the wall! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Strutz.]] The Federal Government has done good work, it is actually being controlled. What you are saying here is nothing but false reports or conscious uncertainty of the population, and, I believe, we should be very careful here! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In his speech, Mr Haubner has very much stressed that it is companies that create jobs. – I totally agree with that! We also know, however, that the creation and maintenance of jobs, of course, is also ensured by the fact that there is state support in order to facilitate, in particular, small and medium-sized enterprises to take action accordingly. This is also an example of the social partnership, on the one hand how we maintain it, on the other hand, as we see it, working very well in the Federal Government between the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Ministry of Social Affairs. That is, I think, a success that is due to all of us! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dolinschek.]] If we look at what we still have to do in the near future, we are aware, especially in view of the unemployment figures in the field of young people, that we must not only insist in Austria that we get more young people into employment, but that this is also a European issue. Rudi Hundstorfer presented the Austrian models we have and which work very well to the EU ministers at the beginning of this week. In this respect too, an example for the European Union that surrounds us is guaranteed in Austria. But this too is not only a social problem, but also an educational problem. We know, however, that by increasing the number of new secondary schools and the improved training and education situation that we will decide in the next few months, we are now providing good conditions for the economy to find well-trained young people and to keep these people well in employment with the appropriate labour market measures.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e8072	Mr Wöginger. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e8093	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! An active labour market policy is a central task of internal policy. The most important thing is that people have a job, and especially in economically difficult times, as in the 2009 crisis year, action needs to be taken quickly and efficiently. In 2009, there was a fall in GDP of around 3.9 percent in Austria; for the first time since 1955, there has been a decline to this extent! However, employment fell by only 1.4%. This was only possible because politics acted quickly and efficiently. I would just like to mention a few examples. – First of all, I call the short work models: At the height of the 2009 crisis, up to 60 000 people were in short work. The companies have gratefully accepted this, and mass announcements have been avoided. The employees were willing to purchase the reduction of overtime and time compensation, they were co-operating Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, have shown great flexibility at this time, and we should also like to thank them for this, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] For example, education and training measures have also been developed and continued. – That is to say, we quickly created the right framework conditions in Austria, and the labour market and economic packages have taken hold. But thanks, of course, to the workers who were very flexible, also the entrepreneurs who have acted professionally and have made it possible that there has not been a great wave of termination in Austria. I would like to thank our entrepreneurs very much for this. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Austria was able to cope well with the crisis. This is particularly evident in comparison with other European countries. Yes, we currently have an unemployment rate of 4.8 percent and remain in the EU's peak field, second in the Netherlands. The recovery continues to be thanks to God. Even in the winter month of December 2010, the number of employees rose by 60 000 to around 3.4 million compared to the previous year, which is the highest December value in the history of Austrian labour market policy. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] The number of unemployed has fallen by 10 500 to around 300,000 people. Of which almost 30 percent have, 87,000 people, a re-establishment commitment, those are especially those who are busy in construction or in seasonal operations, and it is of course a positive element that those people can start working again as soon as it allows the weather. Nevertheless, I would like to stress that everyone/any unemployed person is too much, and our solidarity is particularly true of those who are currently looking for jobs and who have not yet found a job. Of course, the development of the labour market must continue to be closely monitored. The AMS has a circulation rate of around 900 000 people per year, i.e. 900 000 people register for the labour market service in one year. In other words, many people change their jobs, change their jobs, continue their education and training, or come back from childcare. What are the most important forecasts and elements for 2011? – The economy will grow by more than 2%. This means about a plus of 20,000 jobs. However, the labour force potential, according to the forecasts of the AMS, will rise by increasing the return of women from karenz and also young people from training. Ladies and gentlemen, one word about the absence of transitional periods, which will naturally bring changes to the Austrian labour market. But the draw will be manageable. That's what the AMS says. We are also prepared for around 10,000 to 20,000 people from our eastern neighbours to come to us. On the one hand, we will introduce the red and white red card. This makes it possible for us to make an orderly contribution to skilled skilled workers. In addition, thanks to a very well functioning social partnership, we have a dense network of collective agreements that will prevent wage dumping in this area. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, a growing economy and increasing export figures will enable our entrepreneurs to create additional jobs. This is the right way, and we will continue to do so!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e8183	Mr Dr. Strutz is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e8205	Madam President. High house! It is actually a bizarre event, a bizarre scenario: For days or even weeks the government itself has been celebrating, knocking itself on its shoulders and giving itself applause, for example yesterday with an opulent reception in the Hofburg. Where are the government members? – Maybe they still have headaches from the champagne with which they have been provoking each other! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grillitic.]] Today we are told at a current hour how great the labour market is actually reacting. If you listen to the government parties, Minister Hundstorfer, Mrs Oberhauser, then you will actually be in the Honecker cabinet in the last days of the GDR. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] There is absolute refusal of reality, and you are absolutely insensitive to the real mood and the concerns and problems of the Austrian population! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Lap.]] Mrs. Colleague, is it really not for you to think that you will be increasingly deprived of confidence by this population in every election – in Styria, in Vienna, in Carinthia? Is it not to you that according to current surveys the Freedom Party has already overtaken the ÖVP and the government parties together have only more than 50 percent of the trust? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Every other Austrian has already deprived this government of confidence! – They seem to me like these nice animals – you know them –: [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Rudas]] Don't hear anything, don't see anything, don't say anything, Mrs Rudas. Apparently you don't see the snakes in front of the AMS! I'll invite you to: Go to the labour market service at the end of the month and talk to the people there! They obviously do not hear what problems young people face when they are actually in unemployment! They hear nothing of the problems of women who still have to deal with inequality. And you are not saying that the opening of the labour market in the East is a dramatic situation for Austria. That's not just Mr. Strache, but that's what your own people say, like Mr. Buchinger. – Mr Minister, don’t order any studies at the IHS, but talk to your own people! What does the labour market service say? The number of unemployed will rise again this year – Mr Buchinger’s quote! The AMS only expects fewer unemployed people in 2013 because of the andrang of new workers. [[Abg. He must know!]] That means, that's what your own experts and your people who put you there! So if you pretend to be on the 1st. May no aggravation will occur, then the denial of reality is! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I would now like to give you an example of this – and we will have a corresponding initiative in Parliament today – as you deal with the small plant of economic recovery: Look at the price-winner on the Austrian taps! Now driving will be a luxury again, and I can tell you: You're not doing anything! You do not act, even though you were actually asked to do so! Who do you actually meet with these huge seed prices in Austria? – The working population, the commuters who have to drive to work every day by car! You meet the families, you meet the workers. We have a price law in Austria, and we liberals demand that the competent minister Mitterlehner make use of his right to set a maximum price, as is the case in other European countries. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The Austrian Price Act even obliges the Minister of Economic Affairs to act. On its own, it has to be examined if prices are higher than European levels. The following are set out in § 2: ‘[H]on these economic disadvantages, the Federal Minister shall [...] fix a maximum price for the duration of six months.’ In this sense, we demand that you do not take this small plant of economic recovery with your actions – say: Increase in mineral oil tax, prevent price increase on the Austrian taps. Today, we will make an application for a price stop, as it did in Luxembourg or as it is practiced in Slovenia, so that driving in Austria does not become an expensive luxury.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e8293	Thank you. Attention is increasing again. Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Schwentner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e8324	Madam President. Minister! High house! Dear visitors! There is at least one reason why you can be glad that winter is beginning again: That is why you do not have to face the sand in Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, but you can scatter it on the road so that people do not slip out! This PR performance, which you deliver in the current hour, is really very interesting! I would like to give a few figures on the relationship between women and men in terms of income and labour market. It's not all right. In fact, the decline in unemployment is primarily a benefit to men, as the current figures show, and not to women, Mr Minister. There is a ratio of minus 4.3 percent for men to only minus 1.5 percent for women. It is particularly terrifying that the number of part-time jobs is increasing again and that the number of women in full-time jobs is falling dramatically. There are 16 000 women less in full - time jobs than in the previous year, and that is indeed a terrifying number. That means: There has to be looked and done a lot more! For a year there has been a national action plan, the National Action Plan on equality between men and women on the labour market. In this case, it is particularly important to: the shale is very well summarized. The Action Plan provides at a glance all the shortcomings that have occurred in the labour market in recent years – not only but especially in the last two years – and which have accumulated in the labour market. This has resulted in 55 measures, and of these 55 measures there is not yet a single implementation – and that after half the legislative period! So now you have to start very fast and do a lot of things very quickly in the next two years, otherwise it will continue at this pace! One point will be put to the vote this afternoon, which has already been mentioned by Mr Csörgits, namely the amendment to the Equal Treatment Act. This also includes the income transparency model. If it continues in this direction, it shows quite clearly who is behind it: It will not be transparent as to how to deal with salaries in the future, but it will be transparent who has been involved and who has had the say in this model, namely, the social partners. This is beautiful and good, and we had nothing against it. – On the contrary, we would have liked to support the model very much, but not under the circumstances under which it now comes! It is, on the one hand, completely opaque how companies are to proceed, in what form, whether and when they have to draw up the reports. Although there is a two-year period, it is not sanctioned. On the other hand, I think it is extremely worrying when the workers are punished when they talk about the anyway diffuse inequalities in the company. I think that is extremely worrying, not to say, that is absolutely unacceptable! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The law should have gone in the direction that women will be better on the labour market in the future. However, they will not be better off in the future, but will be able to be punished in the future. I really ask you to distance yourself from this passus and, if somehow possible, to still accuse it! In the future, it will obviously not be as important as companies to do in this respect – that is simply not mandatory – but punishments are in the room. What kind of signal is that to companies and, above all, to workers? – That means: Be quiet, look at it, but don't say anything! There are ways of suing this. But it is all too natural that one wants to talk about it, that one wants to talk to colleagues about it, that one may also want to talk about it in the public, because it is a question of very blatant injustices. Obviously, this is in your stomach, too, otherwise there would not be a press conference with you, the woman's minister and also the woman's spokesperson at 11 a.m. today. Perhaps in this respect you will still be able to move! It is really unusual, however, that you obviously still need explanation! We have been discussing the model for a very long time, and that you need to convene a press conference now, I think, says a lot! This is obviously a real Austrian solution, a tragic Austrian solution. I would have liked the signal to go in the other direction, and therefore, even in the afternoon, if we continue to discuss the subject, we will be vehemently opposed and reject the request as it stands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e8390	Next speaker: Mr Hagen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e8411	Madam President. High house! Mr. Minister Hundstorfer, are you comfortable? Did you yesterday get the buffet at €90,000 at tax costs – or is it so difficult for you to get in the stomach like the Austrians the Schröpfbudget 2011 that you caused? [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Leave But now you are talking to me briefly about the success of Austrian labour market policy. Mr Minister, work has to pay off – so it is in the basic concept paper of the BZÖ Party Programme. Voices You're coming to me? – You don’t agree that work has to pay off? Yes, I think so, Mr Minister, because work in this state under this SPÖ/ÖVP government has not been worth it for a long time at a tax and tax rate of more than 45 percent! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] If I hear of cases like those of a 27-year-old foreigner who is in this state social security in the amount of – now you hold fast, otherwise you fall from the chair, Mr. Minister! – 1 772,30 € a month, I can only say: It's a cleanery, what's happening here! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That's what's supposed to be. This amount gets the monthly net cash at hand. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the proof here; You can look at it yourself. I hold the evidence briefly in the camera so you can see it: 1 772,30 €. [[The speaker shall hold a document showing the amount of €1772.30.]] When you consider that a seller will have to pay 1 000 € net for 38.5 hours of work per week, the GIS, i.e. the broadcasting fees, the phone fees and the apartment itself and then perhaps still has children to feed, and this unemployed 27-year-old will get 1 772.30 net at hand, then this is a cleaner in social policy in Austria, ladies and gentlemen! [[Call the ÖVP: Order call!]] Minister, this is your “social justice”: Exhaust working with horrendous taxes and support querulants and tachinisers! That's a scandal! Another thing: The unemployed person, who receives €1 772,30 a month, has replied to the question of what he lacks health, that he cannot work, literally, that, as long as the Austrian state is so stupid and generous, he would be stupid if he did any work. – I think that's a groundless cowardice. Minister, this is your labour market policy, which you praise and uphold here. That's scandalous. Explain You have to pay taxes and finance the Austrians who work! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I'd have a model that might help you get that under control. Any unemployed person should report daily to the employment office at 7 a.m. in the first three months and must be proven to be looking for work. In the morning, the half who are not looking for work should do a job, and in the afternoon the half should help for a non-profit purpose and the other half should go to work. Whoever is racing, the rust!, this proverb does not come from about. The fact is, people get out of the work process. If you're sitting at home and you don't have to go to work, then of course you're rusting in, and then it's not that easy to take a foothold on the labour market anymore. Whoever does not comply with this, belongs to the unemployed removed. Then I would have another concept. Instead of civil servants, you could do the following: All those who do not yet have a job after three months can take up training at the Workers' Samaritans Association or at the Red Cross and carry out activities there instead of civil servants. That would have done your job in the military reform. I did this for you, you can write it off from me. Ladies and gentlemen, another example that provided headlines is the child murderer Miroslav M. in Vorarlberg. You know that he received an invalidity pension of €1 150 at the age of 25 – with 101 contribution months, of which he must have worked effectively for six months. There are many such cases. If I put the comparison with a minimum pensioner who receives € 780 after 40 years of work, I can only say: There's something wrong with the system! You need to change the system! Ladies and gentlemen, that would be the right kind of policy! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] To these 101 working months or months I have to add that the state will continue to pay him the pension contributions, even if he is in prison, is unemployed or receives social assistance. – Only to let the citizens know. Final sentence: A successful labour policy looks so that work is again worthwhile and not punished with 45 percent reductions, while another is in the social hammock. Ladies and gentlemen, your wrong social policy has an impact!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e8485	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[10:24:30]] Current European hour
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e8506	We're now coming to the current one. European hours on the subject: “No Euro-Haftungssch screen without a referendum, Mr Bundeskanzler” First of all, Mr. Strache, President-in-Office of the Council. The rules are the same as in the current hour, so a speaking time of 10 minutes for you. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e8534	Madam President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mr Sozialminister! Ladies and gentlemen! Our current European hour is dealing with the issue of the Euro Protection Screen. Therefore, it is necessary to remind Mr Bundeskanzler of your given promises. Mr. Federal Chancellor, for you, the serious case has now occurred to prove how you stand in your word and what your given word and above all your written word is worth. They sent a letter to the largest daily newspaper in the country, namely to the “Kronen Zeitung”, in which She announced have a referendum at every change in the Lisbon Treaty. So far, so good, that's a real realization you've had. They have once again had the courage to finally take on right demands for freedom and to acknowledge that it is necessary to finally involve the population and to take the Austrian opinion seriously and to implement it. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] But last May, we experienced that there was a Euro security shield. This led to a change in the Treaty, an amendment to the Lisbon Treaty. And what have we experienced? – You, Federal Chancellor, have been silent! No referendum! You have not announced that you want to implement your word in the event of a fixation of this Euro lock. On this occasion, I must remind you of your promise given to you by the “Kronen Zeitung” in June 2008. At that time, you wrote in your letter – I quote you, Federal Chancellor Faymann: "The SPÖ will work towards better information work in the Federal Government, which represents the advantages and disadvantages of membership in the EU objectively and comprehensiblely. On the basis of continuous information and open discussion, we believe that future Treaty changes affecting Austrian interests should be decided by a referendum in Austria.” – Quotes. That's how you write at the time. So far, so good. It is precisely these interests of the Austrians, however, that are affected by the introduction of the euro protection shield. I also take this on the occasion of mentioning the statements made by the French Minister for Finance Christine Lagarde, who said that the rescue shield for the euro-states and the aid credits for Greece violate the European Treaty and that both instruments are not provided for in the Lisbon Treaty. That is what the French Minister of Finance rightly says. And you, Mr. Bundeskanzler, want to make a serious commitment to better information work, as you did in the quoted letter in the “Kronen Zeitung” in 2008? You really want Keep your word? Or do you want to sell the Austrians for stupid? – I don't hear anything in this direction anymore. Now you would be called upon to keep your word and prove that it is also worth something. Or you can get rid of yourself as a federal chancellor. This is actually the consequence of this. Now a referendum would be necessary, and I really condemn your behavior with which you sell the Austrians for stupid. You do not keep your word and do not seem to have it in mind. A little basic and essential as well: We talk about the euro-saving screen and judge it, so let us remember who was critically opposed to the introduction of the euro at the time: It was the Freedom Party – for good reasons. Many scientists also warned of this at the time, because this can naturally lead to problems when such different economies are combined in a monetary system, when one compresses states that do not fit together in national economic terms. We are experiencing through the development of recent years when we assess the monetary policy contexts that we have maintained the right to do so. Based on an inappropriate political premise, the current state of economics was ignored at the time and a decision was taken against our warnings, which are, of course, revenge today. The real economic development of the years 1999 to 2008 has shown that the net recipient countries within the euro area have benefited from significantly lower interest rates and experienced a liquidity driven boom in the short term. But they have not used these available resources efficiently, they have not efficiently changed their systems. We were able to experience that in Ireland competition was, as it were, heightened by tax dumping and thus ultimately harmed continental Europe. We were able to experience that in Spain the coasts were built with millions of abandoned housing units. We were able to experience that money flowed from us net payers to Greece and sunk there in the field of corruption. These are all the developments that we need to see no longer to be denied. The strong economies that operate properly must face the damage. Just that you don't finally change politics is no longer understandable and it has never been. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I therefore say, of course, that we must point out that this cannot continue. It can't be that we, as triple A states, have permanent liability for mismanagements in other countries. As a net payer in the European Union, you have to put it on the table. It concerns several countries in the European Union, which should ultimately stand for the acceptance of liability. It is precisely this that results in disadvantages in terms of competitiveness vis-à-vis the United States and China. We therefore need to consider whether one is going to continue with this or whether one is willing to change something. Of course, it is reasonable to think about whether it would be possible to release the weak economies from the euro area again, or whether, if this does not happen and they do not leave the euro area, the strong economies in the European Union would define and introduce a strong new currency. That will be the debate. We will not get past this if you do not want the crisis to continue at the end of the crisis with Portugal, Spain and Italy, which would of course also be affected, and if we all have to assume in a bad worst-case scenario that there is a development of the euro zone through which people could lose their savings. We must take these developments seriously and show them. If a rescue shield is to be debated, for which the triple A states should stand straight, then we must at least discuss whether those states that are to stand up for these incredible billions should not also have more rights, if they already have their capital, with their work performance for such a damage. It is also politically not to be expected that those states that have put this into effect will have to give up their voting rights if we already have to stand financially for the damage, and because that is not to be expected, we will have to think about other solutions. Back to the topic of missing the shield permanence. As has been said, the permanent protection of the euro is a serious change to the Treaty of Lisbon. This is not to be denied, Mr. Federal Chancellor! A referendum in Austria is essential. I remember your promise. I would like to remind you once again that you have promised highly official that you will implement the mandatory referendum in Austria in every change in the contract and take the result seriously. So please show, Federal Chancellor, that you are willing to take your word seriously, because everything else would really be more embarrassing! After you celebrated a great buffet at your New Year's reception in Hofburg yesterday – while you burdened the Austrian population by tax increases – at least you should go a little bit inside and now also put your own population in the foreground again. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is not a small matter, but about €750 billion for a permanent euro protection screen. That's what it's all about. We have already experienced in the past that you have been dealing with Austrian taxpayers very salopp. We as net payers had to pay for bank aid packages, with no benefit from the population. The Greek citizens have not received any support, but, of course, bank aid packages have been decided by the back door – billion-high auxiliary syringes that we have ultimately provided to taxpayers in Austria. By your decisions, we have collected banks that have previously speculated neatly and in a more precise way. It cannot be the Austrians' task to collect banks that have irresponsibly speculated, both French and other European banks, who have benefited from this rescue package. Why should Austria even participate in the rescue of hedge funds and large banks? Why? Why?- Oh, my God! You have to explain this to your own people once credible. Why should the Austrian taxpayer help over-indebted states that are not ready to take reform steps? You must also explain the security of the money we have already done so that we can ever get it back. I do not see this security. I assume we'll never see this money again. It is insidious and negligent to continue this way. I therefore request your given word: People's vote as soon as possible, in all areas where there are changes to the Lisbon Treaty, and also in all other areas where the Austrian population is massively affected.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e8679	Mr Faymann spoke on a preliminary opinion. The speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e8700	Madam President. State Secretary! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! It is of course also legitimate to ask the question of how countries are to be involved in these decisions, and, above all, how a decision-making process is handled within the countries concerned, which will then lead to a common outcome in Europe. You know that I am in principle one of those who do not face polls and referendums negatively, but always think of them as a possible decision-making process. [[Abg. Vilimsky: No, we don't know!]] This concerns a number of issues. That I would not say, of course, that this is to be assessed independently of the content is also understandable and can be demonstrated by a simple example. I have been asked years ago, but of course now again and again whether a referendum is needed in the case of Croatia's accession. I did not comment on all the concrete examples, but that was one. I said no, I don't need that. However, if someone had the idea that Turkey should join the European Union, I would have made it clear – without altering any opinion, reinterpreting or otherwise developing – that would also be allowed in politics – that I would think that this would be a clear case for a referendum. That's how we can play through all the topics now. A change in the Treaty, which would give the competence and responsibility for tax systems and the legal basis to an economic government in Europe – which is currently rather in the field of theoretical discussions – is, of course, a clear case for a referendum. So we could continue to do so without making fun of it, up to changes in the fisheries rights treaty, and I do not expect Austrians to comment directly on it. All these examples and many of those that are still coming, which may not yet be estimated today, I would like to assess the rescue shield, the liability shield of its content and its importance. In the European Union, the decision to introduce a common currency – not all countries but a crucial part – has been taken, and the euro is often referred to as the heart of the European Union. At the time of the introduction – and I am right to all those who say this today – many in the population of all the countries concerned were not clear that this single currency has not only positive sides, which it has no doubt, and it has to do with exports and safeguard the value of trade relations. The largest trade relations and export success, including Austria, live and need stability in the euro area. They have benefited greatly from the fact that, with devalued currencies and other unreliable factors, there has been no weakening of this trade, but – on the contrary – a stabilisation by the euro. There were also advantages, for example, in the area of interest rates for the payment of sovereign debt for many countries in the euro area, for which the euro has improved the situation as regards the interest rate landscape and the operation of government debt. These are also advantages to be highlighted. And there is, of course, something like a need for common rules to approach each other in trade with each other and thus also to strengthen the joint research and other innovation measures to make Europe competitive against the Asian region or other markets in this world. The euro has certainly done something positive. Those who want a common currency to make a positive contribution to the future of society must also be able to admit that this currency is also subject to severe samples and that negative developments are also evident. This includes the fact that economies are very different, that the rules, the cultural, political, social differences of the countries of the European Union in important areas are hardly more dissociating than they do in the euro area. There is the subject of the shadow economy, there is the issue of corruption, there is the subject of completely different tax systems, there is the subject of completely different treatment of companies at their respective economic locations, up to the very different social conditions, to wage dumping and all that belongs to it. These differences have been more evident by the euro. The liability for each other, for the common currency, has not been created by the liability shield, the liability in a way for a common currency has arisen in the introduction of the single currency. [[Abg. Bucher: That's not true! Completely wrong! That's totally wrong!]] And the introduction of the common currency... – Yes, the “Bail Out” clause. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Emphasis...!]] [[Abg. Booker: That's not what happened...!]] We'll get to the point right now, that's what that means. Liability has resulted from the fact that a negative development of countries within the euro area has always played a role in trade relations, even without a common currency, but of course it has played a special role since the single currency was created. Liability does not go so far as to be liable for everything and everyone, and it will never be able and able to do so, but a certain degree of responsibility for ensuring that this single currency remains stable on the market, that this single currency can also be defended internationally and that the stability of the common currency can also be strengthened internationally, will be clear to everyone who was in favour of the introduction of the euro. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Strache and Mr Bucher]] From my point of view, these are the tasks that stand for us and for which there is the liability shield. There is indeed that it should only be possible, on request of our German neighbours, through an additional contractual formulation as a permanent establishment. So not even this is being reintroduced now, but it is introduced as a permanent device. Yes, this liability shield is available! He was set up to carry out these tasks. So between: You're not responsible for anything in a development at all, and: You are liable for everything, there is a wide range of possibilities, and this broad range will be a great deal of attention – with the aim of a strong common currency and with the aim of eliminating differences more thoroughly and aligning each other on the basis of a common strategy. I am convinced that we will still often have the opportunity to discuss this in Parliament, because this will indeed be a strong concern for the European Union in this and in the coming years.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e8804	I would draw attention to the fact that the speaking time of all other participants in the debate in the current hour of Europe is now up to 5 minutes each. The next speaker was Mr Deputie Club President Dr Cap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e8828	Madam President. High house! It is a perfectly justified requirement if you say: It is democratic to control what happens to our tax money! – We agree, Mr Klubobmann Strache. It must only have meaning at what time, with what question and with what direction this happens. And I say to you, of course, we need to be aware of why we have a euro zone and why it benefits us in principle. I saw yesterday in the ORF in the “World Journal” a contribution on the impoverishment of the middle class in the USA. Pensioners who have to stay there outdoors, pensioners who live by hand in their mouths, people who used to belong to the middle class. [[Abg. Bucher: That threatens us too! That threatens us too!]] Who protects these people? [[Abg. Ing. Don't you think so?]] If we are in competition here in Europe with a billion Chinese, with 100 million Americans, with large markets – Austria has 8 million inhabitants, the size of a medium-sized Chinese provincial city, an economy that naturally has to compete – then it is good that, as a member of the European Union in a large economic area, in the euro zone, in a currency zone, we also have this resilience, this ability to act, too. The euro zone is also something like a protective wall, so that it does not happen, for example, what we saw yesterday in the contribution of the “World Journal” in the ORF. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Königshofer]] [[Abg. Street:... and the Chinese buy the government bonds! The Chinese then have the government bonds, that's the protective wall!]] – You need to discuss it this way! Look, populism always draws black and white. He says everything's good, or everything's bad. – But life is not such that everything is good or everything is bad. You sometimes have a better day, Mr. Klubobmann, and sometimes a worse day, be honest! You're nodding right now! You caught a worse one today! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Riepl.]] In any case, life is life, and so it is in the economic structures. They asked in a simple way: How can we be responsible for the mismanagement of the other countries? – I do not deny that not every government budgetary organisation in a country is perfect – there we are back to what I said before – but you are a bit on the argument of the super-rich, the speculators and the hedge funds and the neoliberals who say... – No, they do not say: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bucher.]] [[Abg. Strache: They support you! They support you with the rescue shield!]] I am to blame, the hedge fund organizer, I, the speculator, who say: Debt is the superfluous social state, debt are the superfluous health systems! [[Abg. Strache:... and yesterday in the Hofburg champagne!]] – You have a bad conscience, so you’re yelling all the time now! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It's the social state, they say. [[Abg. Strache: They destroy the social state!]] - No, I don't. On the contrary! We want to maintain the social state, we want to develop it further, we want it to be protected. And I say to you, of course, the social state is part... – Can [[Abg. Strache: That's why you pay Austrian billions to Greece?! That's absurd! You don't believe that...!]] Now you're taking a little break with the calls? They're not so good that I have to listen to them all the time. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In any case, the social state is part of the economic system and we naturally want to preserve it and develop it further. We do not want our middle class pensioners – and not just middle class – to lie around the area once as homeless people! We don't want that! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Bitch.]] Nor do we want the impoverishment of the middle class of entrepreneurs! We want the real economy to develop further. [[Abg. Street:... Hyperinflation by Your Politics!]] We want, and this must be the monitoring of the shield, rules on financial markets, supervision of financial markets, restrictions on financial markets. [[Abg. Ing. Höbart: Where are they? Where are they...?]] There, too, politics made mistakes when it pushed itself back or when it pushed itself back. That was a mistake. What the super speculators want is exactly that! [[Abg. May. Stefan: They want the lifeguard!]] They don't want any rules, no supervision, they're supposed to pay it to taxpayers, and debt is the social state. – And what surprises me is... – No! [[Abg. Strache: The super speculators want the lifeguard! The super speculators want the lifeguard!]] Listen a little bit! What you're saying is: I'm building a dam against any flood threat and I want a vote down in the valley to see if people want to be protected. - No, no, no, no, no, Of course they want to be protected, and that is true! And this is the advantage of the euro zone – at all criticisms, at all things you need to better organise. And now I'm going to tell you something if you're talking about mismanagement in the individual states: Watch out! What I do not want is that this is the argument that the EU is interfering in all economic, financial and budgetary matters, because this is at the expense of our sovereignty. That is why you are twice at the argument, so I can't give you the right twice – which I'm sorry, because we want to discuss, come to results together and solve the problems together. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: Twice minus is plus!]] I therefore say to you that it is wise to look at things differently and to think of the Austrian people and their interests involved in this large European area, so that we are truly resilient and competitive globally and our social state also has a future.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e9074	The next item is Mr Dr. Stummvoll. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e9096	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Calls and calls between FPÖ and SPÖ MPs.]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] When we discuss the euro here, we do not discuss any European currency, we discuss our money: Our wages and salaries, our pensions, our savings are in euros, Mr. Strache. And everything we do here to secure the euro, we do to secure the small savers, pensions, wages and salaries, to ensure this purchasing power. [[Abg. Booker: This is a fool!]] This is the truth, Mr. Strache. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] I have to say honestly, a referendum – I am very much for referendums! – on the question: Should the euro, should our wages and salaries, be our pensions, should this purchasing power be obtained?, I believe, is just a classic no-na question. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Königshofer.]] So to stage a referendum, Mr. Strache, is, I really have to say, political spectacle – and nothing else. A classic no-na question! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bitch.]] Mr Strache – I know you were very critical of the euro – let us take a look at the euro's balance sheet! On Saturday in an interview in the “Kronen Zeitung”, Prof. Novotny, Governor of the Music Bank, mentioned two beautiful figures. He said: Let's see the stability! [[Abg. Ing. Höbart: 25 percent weaker than in the introduction!]] In the last ten years before the introduction of the euro, i.e. at Schilling times, the average inflation rate was 2.2 percent. Since we have the euro, the average inflation rate has been 1.7 percent. – So all those who said: The stable schilling is now replaced by the euro – who knows if it is so stable!, one can say today: The euro is more stable today than the schilling ever was! . Actually, a great current account of this European currency, ladies and gentlemen. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stefan.]] Mr. Strache, ask an exporter today how glad he is that we have this stability, that we no longer have speculative depreciations. This is very important for our exporters in this globalisation of competition, in this location competition – since the USA, since Asia, China and Europe –. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Book]] Without euro, we would be a winzling, a dwarf; with the euro we are in a strong European Community. [[Abg. Strache: The evil poor Swiss! The evil poor Swiss!]] Mr Strache, we are not talking about a crisis of the euro. We have no crisis of the euro, we have a crisis of state finances in those countries that have spent much more than they have taken. That's the point. But, of course, I admit, the euro has a weakness – and is even a historical experiment – because it is a common currency without a common economic policy. He is an experiment with this, and that is why I am very glad that today, in the newspapers, German Chancellor Angela Merkel is also quoted, we have to come closer to economic policy, not a question at all. Unfortunately, the hope that the stability criteria will deal with this alone has not been met. We need to take action here, and I can name three measures. First of all, we need to do something to increase the efficiency of this euro rescue shield. I say again: This lifeguard is a safety shield for our little savers. We need to do something to increase efficiency. [[Abg. Dr. Königshofer:... the savers... pay!]] It will certainly not be possible, as I am entirely of your opinion, to say that the six triple A states should pay more. It will not play with us; it will not be possible to divide solidarity, but it will be necessary to make efficiency improvements. It is being strongly negotiated both in Brussels and at the level of the Heads of Government. Secondly, There is no doubt that the Stability Pact needs to be strengthened, no question at all. There is no doubt that the criteria included today – state deficit, government debt, inflation rate – are too few. In particular, the economic criteria, especially competitiveness, must be included here, otherwise the euro area will be even more disparate than it is at present. Mr Strache, I have something to say. If we discuss this, then the following is not a question for us at all – we have always said this, and the government says: Of course, the countries concerned must do their homework primarily, no question at all! That is an indispensable condition, please! As long as they are not in order, the financial markets will signal uncertainty. And the financial markets, they're not just the evil speculators! The financial markets, if you want to, test the credibility of the policy, and on the financial markets, it will not be until they see that the rehabilitation programmes in Greece, Ireland, are successful in Portugal. Only then will a calm come true. Now it is necessary that we do everything necessary. With regard to the wording decided by the EU Council in Brussels: If it is essential to ensure the stability of the euro, then such a mechanism can be put into effect, I can only say that one cannot be against it, my colleague, Mr Strache. If it is essential to guarantee the security of our salaries, of our pensions, of our savings, then this mechanism will enter into force. [[Abg. Street: It can also be the opposite: hyperinflation!]] In this sense, Federal Chancellor: There is a green light from us for further negotiations.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e9238	Mr Hübner came next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e9260	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Federal Chancellor! Dear Secretary of State! Ladies and gentlemen! A little while ago, before I started to talk, I made the speech: I have not heard a single word from the government side on the subject of referendum. I have heard everything possible, just one not, namely referendum, and, above all, no one argument about why this request, this suggestion, which is on the table, is apparently not even worthy of discussion. What we have heard, in fact every speech since 2008, 2009, is how happy we must be in the EU, how well we cope with the crisis because we are in the EU, how much the euro is helping us and how bad it was for us if we were not in the euro zone. What happened? – Today we are in the most broken economic and monetary community worldwide. The euro has become a horde of instability, and all those European countries that have kept away from the euro zone and partly from the EU are now stable and are developing smoothly. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] I do not always want to mention Switzerland, it has been mentioned many times, but take Norway or even take Iceland – one of my favorite examples, because the Icelandics have experienced the greatest possible accidents with the collapse of the entire banking system. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Wittmann.]] They are more economically stable today, they are not dependent on support, they are not in the EU – and this is a tiny 340 000 resident country without euro and without EU. And where is Ireland, where is Portugal, where are many other euro countries? According to Greece alone over the past 25 years, there have been several figures, but an estimated 120 billion € from the regional aid, cohesion funds flowed. – €120 billion, Federal Chancellor, this is about the double of our annual government expenditure – not our GDP, but our government expenditure – a huge amount. And where is Greece today? In fact, if you see the statements of recent years and these developments, you have to approach the situation in a special way: by astonishment. And that's what I saw: Mr. Federal Chancellor Faymann also marvels at the whole thing. He says today in a very much, I don't want to say, little ones, that might not be mine, but, in a very careful way: Well, where light is, it's also shadows, and we're now seeing all the shadows. – But astonishment is actually, if you follow Plato, the first step towards knowledge. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But I do not see this knowledge far and wide, but the only one that is being drawn to conclusions here – not only from our federal government, but also from Europe – is that one continues with a firm step on the wood road, namely further towards centralization, further towards even closer links between the payers and the strong nations with economies that are not at all compatible are, and therefore continue towards weakening our own position. Because one must be clear: We are and will certainly not be the recipients in this Europe over the next 50 years or in the next two to three generations, but the payers and paymasters, because our economic and social system with most northern and central Europeans is among the stable and successful, and the social models that we will obtain in the coming years in the EU certainly do not belong to this group. We will certainly not get any net payers and no hoards of stability if we enter Bulgaria or Romania or other countries that I am not going to mention in the euro zone in the future. Mr Cap has clearly said that he does not want Europe to interfere in the economic interests, social interests, in the tax interests of the Member States in the future. – Then why don’t the line be pulled, why do we march with it? We are on our way to a European central economic government. This so-called Stability Fund, this EFSF, i.e. this European Financial Market Stabilisation Facility, is nothing but a first major fund for the central financing of the European Union. This is not, for example, a rescue and emergency shield – it was once a short-term rescue and emergency shield – but it is now about amending the Treaty on the permanent, institutionalised creation of this payment fund, which is mainly fed by states such as Austria and the surrounding area, and financing states such as Greece and Co, later Romania and Bulgaria. To manage such a fund, a fund in these huge dimensions – we are talking about 475 billion, but that is only the beginning; You know that the EU's leadership is already talking about 1.5 trillion – a central government will be wanted. And why should not the population be questioned about such a central change? [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] Madam President, I should like to say one more thing: Mr Bundeskanzler, you yourself were there when, in September 2008, a request was accepted, in which the Federal Government was asked to take all necessary measures to ensure that future substantial changes to the Treaties on the European Union and the functioning of the European Union, which affect Austrian interests, were decided by a referendum in Austria. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign again.]] That's all I can say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e9357	The next item is Mr Van der Bellen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e9378	Thank you, Madam President. – If you want to shorten it, of course it is about the following: When the euro was introduced, it was clear to everyone that, without coordination of economic and financial policy, there were considerable risks to express it mildly. These risks have occurred in the wake of the insolvency of Lehman Brothers, the financial crisis, the banking crisis and what this has meant for the States. Now we are facing the simple alternative: either we are now drawing the consequence, namely a deepening of cooperation in economic and financial policy, or we are letting the whole thing go into the air! I can say, on behalf of the Greens, that we are in favour of seeing these needs and opportunities for deepening, that the liberals are saying: Let's get the whole thing in the air! – That’s easy under the line. [[President Neugebauer shall take over the chairmanship.]] What it is about now is that two sentences should be reintroduced into the European Treaties. This will result in a ratification in Austria with a necessary two-thirds majority. Right ahead, Federal Chancellor: Don't be too sure you've got the greens in your pocket for the voices! Let's take a look at what's at stake here, what's going to be done. [[Abg. May. Stadler: We too!]] For the time being, one must say that these two gloomy sentences, which are essentially to be incorporated into the Treaties at the request of the Germans, do not, first of all, say anything: Members of monetary union – as appropriate – can introduce a so-called European Stability Mechanism – without the Treaty explaining what that is. As well: Financial assistance from this Fund will only be granted under strict conditions – without explaining which of these are. It's all tricky. [[Abg. Strache: But I don't worry that the greens don't fall over in time!]] At the same time, we are negotiating here in Parliament at least six draft European Union regulations on transparency, budgetary issues, economic policy coordination and, and, I would like to refer briefly to these two sentences just mentioned. In a comment from the “International Herald Tribune” in December 2010, it said: ‘Crazy ideas from EU is bound to fail.’ This proposal has nothing to do with economy, but very much to do with brain damage. – I wouldn't go that far. That was a very polemic comment. The problem, however, is the following: There is a concept behind these two sentences – including the conclusions of the European Council in which Chancellor Faymann always participates – and this document states for the first time that European states, members of monetary union can also be insolvent, that is, popularly expressed, bankruptcy. For the first time! But the consequence of this is not yet drawn. For at least one year, I ask you to take note of this point here: Greece is not illiquid, Greece is insolvent! In other words, it must be re-indebted with a corresponding participation of private creditors. This process would now be easier than he has been, for various reasons. Unfortunately, I did not have the time to carry it out, but also an unwarranted newspaper like “The Economist” wrote last Friday: The euro crisis – Time for Plan B. ‘Plan B’ means the re-indebtedness of insolvency states. If, as the European Union has done so up to now, you have an idea, namely: States can actually be insolvent, put into space, and at the same time say that from the year 2013 will be entered into the contracts, that private creditors will come to the handcushion, so to speak, but now we only write January 2011, then the question arises: What are the financial markets doing by the year 2013? If you owned a Greek bond in your wallet, what would you do under these circumstances? You'd try to get rid of them, of course, to a discount. You'd already have realized your loss. This explains at least partly the rise in interest rates for Greece and other countries. The Greeks now pay no less than the peak of the crisis one or three quarters ago; 11 to 12 percent, implicitly, in the secondary market. Finally, you have to take the consequences. European policy acts as if it had time. We know this from Austria. We have been discussing federalism reform for 60 years, and nothing goes on. But in this case we don't have 60 years, we don't even have two years. European policy, as quickly as it sometimes tries to respond, can be too much time in the reaction of financial markets. There are other priorities. The six directives that we discussed earlier in the EU Subcommittee are partly important and correct, but they do not concern the core issue. The acute key question is: [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign]] What do we do with Greece – where the insolvency crisis is clear – what are we doing with Ireland? In both cases we will have to expect debt deposits of 30 to 50 percent. How do we deal with such questions in Europe? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e9439	Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann Bucher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e9461	Mr President. Mr. Bundeskanzler, of course, you have become writty in relation to your letter, which you wrote to the “Kronen Zeitung” in 2008, because: When, if not, when it comes to the taxpayers' money we make available to Marode EU countries, does the people have to be questioned? This, ladies and gentlemen, is the crucial point. billions of liabilities, guarantees and money injections have been made available to the banks. And this affects the people more than any single Treaty amendment to the European Reform Treaty or to the Constitution, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. That's the real point. [[In the case of the BZÖ, as well as the members of the FPÖ.]] But that the red and black government politicians constantly break their word and do not take it seriously with promises, we experience it almost daily. I only remember the Minister of Banking Pröll, who repeatedly emphasized in interviews: no new and no higher taxes! A few weeks later, a few months later, we received the largest tax and load package presented by Red and Black. – This is the word par excellence, ladies and gentlemen! [[In the case of the BZÖ, as well as the members of the FPÖ.]] Again and again the same picture – even now in this current European hour –: When it comes to taking the people along the common path of Europe, you are not worth the involvement of citizens, you are not worth a referendum when it comes to existential interests when it comes to informing and integrating the people. Before EU elections, which will certainly take place again, you complain that there is no interest by the population in Europe. This is because you have no interest in including the people in European issues that are really relevant and important, ladies and gentlemen. [[In the case of the BZÖ, as well as the members of the FPÖ.]] This was the case with the EU reform treaty and also with the rescue shield. You have never included taxpayers in the really most important questions, for example, when it came to straining up the EU's rescue shield, tying a bank package or providing Greece with a billion-dollar aid package, ladies and gentlemen! You always have to say – and this is the essential that will always be kept silent –: The money Greece has received from Austria is gone! This money doesn't exist anymore, it won't come back. You know that. Now there are debt statements, then there are debt losses, and at the end of the day, what is left is going into a European Monetary Fund. The money of Austrian taxpayers is lost money! Greece, if you want to, has become a part of China, because China has jumped in and bought government bonds from Greece. That is the reality, ladies and gentlemen. [[In the case of the BZÖ, as well as the members of the FPÖ.]] I'm shaken, really shaken. Federal Chancellor! You are the head of government and have today stated in your opinion that it was already clear with the introduction of the euro that a country has to help the other country when it comes to financial difficulties. – Mr Bundeskanzler, is that what you said?- Oh, my God! Is that really what you're serious about?- Oh, my God! Or do you speak again and correct yourself? Because one thing you should know as head of government is that there is a Bail-Out clause, and that means that no country has to assume a liability to another country. This has been defined by the introduction of the euro as one of three key points, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[In the case of the BZÖ, as well as the members of the FPÖ.]] [[Interference of Federal Chancellor Faymann.]] [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: No! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] - Excuse me, but you should know that as head of government. There is also a Stability Pact, which clearly states: 3 per cent deficit limit, 60 per cent debt ratio. It is also noted that the European Central Bank cannot buy government bonds. All these are basic rules that you have thrown overboard. This European Community is a community without morality, and that is fatal, ladies and gentlemen. Today we are in the situation that those whom we have helped to get the taxpayer out of the whole mess, namely the banks, dictate the conditions, by taking the cheap money of the European Central Bank that the taxpayer has carried there by 1 percent interest, making it available to the Marod States by 7 percent interest and thus making 6 percent profit with the government bonds. [[Abg. May. Stadler: That's it! That's the way it is!]] This system, ladies and gentlemen, must finally break through. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] It is important to ensure that the banks are held responsible, ladies and gentlemen, And for this the BZÖ will continue to mobilise all the forces in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e9565	Next speaker: Mr Wittmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e9597	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Dear gentlemen on the Government Bank! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I think Mr Van der Bellen has put it to the point. There are two opinions on the situation in which the euro or the European Union is located. There is the opinion of the BZÖ, one blows the whole thing into the air and then believes that something good has been done, and there is the opinion of the liberals. What would happen if that were what you would like? – The stability of this currency would be gone, the savings of people would be gone, the pensions would not be guaranteed! [[Abg. Strache: Using Austrian tax money for our own people, our tax money for our citizens – this is the goal!]] Is that your goal? What responsibility do you have in this state if you want the individual saver, the single pensioner, to pay everything? What kind of political understanding do you have? There must be no such thing as that! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Königshofer.]] We have three large rooms: We have the yen, the dollar in America and the euro. Our companies can invoice in a global currency. They are not supplied with speculations, they can issue their invoices in euro, they have no risk to bear inwards. [[Abg. Strache: What are we experiencing in Portugal, Spain? Where do you not see any speculations?]] Do you want them to end up in dollars? Do you want them to finish in Yen? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Königshofer.]] Imagine this export economy! That is unbearable what you ask each individual to put his savings or his pension at risk. [[Congratulations on representatives of the SPÖ]] [[Abg. Wheels:... Yen in North Korea!]] I would just like to draw your attention to the fact that in April 2009 Austria benefited from this European solidarity. When the Eastern European countries are so to speak, and the Austrian banks have taken the greatest risk, we have come to the radar screen of all states about speculation rumors. And what happened? – The amount of 25 billion, which was made available for East Aid, was increased to 50 billion after a visit by the Minister of Finance. That is how the European Union has helped Austria. That is why it is obvious that Austria is also making its contribution to secure the euro, the European currency. I think that this is an act of solidarity, especially since, as already mentioned, Austria has already benefited. [[Abg. Strache: Solidarity among speculators!]] We couldn't have served our bonds. [[Abg. Street: SPÖ foundation speculators and SPÖ euro speculators!]] Mr Hübner said that Iceland is a parade example because it is so good for the country. – Yes, because the euro states have jumped in! But not because Iceland is so good economically. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Königshofer.]] That is the question to be answered: In order to protect individuals by solidarity from having a disadvantage from this policy, one wants to protect our export industry by allowing it to invoice in euro worldwide, or simply to give up the savings, because it doesn't matter anyway and one wants to take this system into the air. [[Abg. Strache: The Austrian taxpayers protect, that's what it's all about!]] Another advantage is to think about it now, for those countries that have a different economy and have not acted as correctly as Austria, to define conditions as to how to help them. Otherwise, we would never come to these conditions. It is also thought to involve private individuals in the payment of these speculation losses. And, I think, this discussion should lead to the fact that we finally let the speculators be told that you let the banks pay. Mr Bucher's request is only possible if one grants a protective shield and not if one abolishes it. [[Abg. Bucher: Exactly the opposite! You feed the banks!]] [[Abg. You're feeding the speculators!]] Now to the constitutional situation. You know, the EU Treaty has 55 articles, the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union has 358 articles. Now, in primary law, one changes a half sentence by saying: ‘Member States whose currency is the euro may set up a stability mechanism’, which shall be bound by certain conditions. – These requirements ensure that the speculators are integrated and that each individual is protected from depreciation and loss. [[Abg. Strache: You protect the speculators with this screen!]] Finally, our article 50 in the Federal Constitution states that no referendum is necessary for this. [[Abg. Strache: You finance the speculators with Austrian tax money! That's it!]] We do not amend the EU Treaty. Nor do we change the EU Treaty's sub-contracts, but a simplified Treaty amendment procedure is being used, and this simplified Treaty amendment procedure even means that states that are obliged to vote in a referendum do not have to vote in favour of this change. [[Abg. Strache: You finance the speculators in the banks with Austrian tax money!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz.]] [[Abg. May. Stefan: It's about a promise!]] And we want a referendum for a change consisting of half a sentence? I consider your policy to be unsanitary because it would harm individuals and also damage Europe's economy.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e9828	Next speaker: Mrs. Dr. Plassnik. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e9849	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. State Secretary! Learning ability is a very practical feature in the 21st century. I warn colleagues from the FPÖ of a backward role in the 1990s. You've known better before. Because what you are talking about today is not the question of a referendum, but it is a question of mobilising against the euro, of making the European Union bad at the end of the day, of repacking your old ideas, which you have already propagated in the context of schilling popular desire in the 1990s. That didn't work, Mr. Westenthaler knows. He failed, and he failed with a very thin result. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Many signatures!]] Learning ability, ladies and gentlemen, we are grateful to God on the side of the European Union. The discussions, the debates that are now under way on how to make this shield more effective, are essential progress. These are also very interesting and partly laborious discussions. These progress is extremely important for Austria. The Austrians have confidence in our common money, in our common currency. All polls show that a massive majority of Austrians have great confidence in the euro and thus also trust in the crisis management of the Austrian Federal Government. I think that in 2009, 2010 the Austrian Federal Government has proved itself to be a crisis manager in this area. It acted prudently, acted quickly, and acted forward-looking. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Austria today is God thanks to one of the six countries in the European Union that have a Triple A, together with France, Germany, the Netherlands, the Finnish and Luxembourg colleagues. And it is quite right for you to consult here intensively and also to coordinate. This is particularly what the Finance Ministers are doing. I do not think that we should split the euro zone again: into a northern part and into a southern part, so to speak, into a “N-Euro” and into a “S-Euro”. That's displeasure. This is not a good idea and not in the sense of the Austrian taxpayer and citizen. But it's important that we get our position as a triple A country. This is what the Austrian Federal Government has to do with all its resources. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Now on the topic of referendum. Why is it such an impotent means? We do not hold this discussion for the first time. In the event of a referendum you can only answer with yes or no. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] And this is a totally inadequate means, especially in the complexity of the question we have here, because it is about how to articulate, how we formulate the design, the concrete conditions that we must also formulate towards the countries which, at least, use this shield. [[Abg. Petzner: The people are too stupid to vote! That's an arrogance, that's incredible!]] We need to clarify how this is controlled. We also need to discuss what alternatives, if they exist, are all highly detrimental to the Austrian taxpayer. So get rid of this old-known anti-European attitude, from this anti-Euro hold! Let us also look at the specific figures: The maximum liability we have decided here in the Austrian Parliament is €15 billion in connection with the shield. [[Abg. Dr. Hübner: That's nothing!]] We're about 12.3 now. You now suddenly want a popular vote for a shield that is already in place, whose definitive and permanent design is already a fact! Where was the cry after the referendum in the case of export guarantees issued by the Austrian State? Only to compare the sizes to which it goes: On the one hand, this is about 30 billion in 2010 in line with the Export Funding Act. [[Abg. May. Stefan: What does this have to do with the Lisbon Treaty?]] We have decided unanimously here, the representatives of the people. That's what we're here for. We don't need a referendum. The same applies to the Export Act, which is also about this level. [[Interim calls at FPÖ and BZÖ.]] Finally, as a Carinthian, let me say something that is also very important to me. [[Abg. Scheibner: You can't compare that at all!]] [[Further calls to the BZÖ.]] In Carinthia, a national liability of €19 billion was apparently decided. The Landtag was not even asked for this. This was made simple by the state government. [[Abg. Dr. Strutz: But Mr. Martinz agreed! He's the president of the holding company!]] Where has there been great interest, Mr Strutz, in a referendum? That means the maneuver is extremely transparent: It's about populism pure. [[Abg. May. Stefan: Populism was the letter to the “Kronen Zeitung”! Where's populism?]] Make learning progress and stop giving the citizens a pure wine! Admit color! Trust You of the Austrian Federal Government! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e10004	Next speaker: Mr Themessl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e10025	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. State Secretary! High house! Dear Seers! Do you know, Mrs Plassnik, that the liability package is only €15 billion, which is an increase in the population? [[Abg. Dr. Strutz: Removed! All right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right,]] In the state of our state finances, you will probably pay this out of the Portokassa. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is really an obstacle to producing here and acting as if 15 billion euros of liability would mean nothing at all. Probably it pays the ÖVP from the Portokassa, I can imagine. Now to you, Federal Chancellor. Mr Bundeskanzler, it has already been incredibly interesting to observe how you have made your speech today. They have shown in every detail why we are in this fatal situation today. They have said that these liabilities have become necessary because different economies, different tax systems and different economies have been summarized in this euro area. Yeah, but that's what experts told you ten years ago that this can't work. And we've been telling you this for months. If we have told you this over and over again in the last few months, you just shook your head and pretended to be not true. But today's statement was actually the admission that we have been right in our opinion for months. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What you're doing with this euro protection screen is nothing more than another capitulation in front of the financial and banking lobby in Austria, in the EU and throughout the euro area. What has remained of your major announcements in which you meant that you will work to ensure that there will be a financial transaction tax in the European area? – Nothing of it has stayed! And if your clubman Cap comes out of here and says that we have to help the poor people there, in Greece, in Ireland and in Portugal and in all the countries that will be added, then this is a further increase. Yes Believe All of you serious that a Greek or an Irish has anything but anything from this euro-saving screen?- Oh, my God! This is a purely banking recovery to an extent that has never been greater in the history of the European Union! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Strache: This is the SPÖ Speculant Help Package!]] The Greeks and Irish are burdened by their own government, which is responsible for this bad economy in recent years, with massive tax increases, with massive savings packages. Zig thousands in these countries are already on the road. But it doesn't stay because in the countries that are burdened by this euro-saving screen, Germany, Austria and so on, people don't like it anymore. They pay €2.3 billion to Greece and at the same time decide here in the House a tax package of € 2.8 billion, which the Austrian population has to bear in full. Then Federal Finance Minister Pröll comes here and says that it is not responsible to make debt, to impose debts on our children and grandchildren in an order that they will not handle for decades. At the same time, there is a budget which provides for massive family, social, care burdens, an increase in mass taxes, such as mineral oil tax, and, and so on. However, you do not say that despite this load package you are unable to balance. They also make €7.5 billion in debt. We now have a debt of €200 billion without the outsourced debt of Asfinag, ÖBB, BIG and so on, and we will make it possible to raise debts up to € 230 billion by 2014. And then the Minister of Finance is here, saying that it is not responsible to impose additional burdens on our young people. I don't know how stupid he thinks the population is. That he's declared the opposition parties stupid, we've known that for a long time. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Wittmann. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party and of the European People's Do you know why we're in this fatal situation? – Because you explain everything because of your political understanding. But what you lack is economic understanding. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Bitch.]] I am now closing with a quote from Hans-Werner Sinn, which is the ifo President from Germany. He said: “I doubt” – and I give him the right to say – “that today’s people in Europe fully understand the economic significance of their decisions. ... The banishment of economic laws has devastating consequences." The basic principle must remain that the creditors are liable for the risks and not the population of the individual states – and not even here in Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e10105	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e10126	Mr President. Gentlemen on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen, also at the gallery! I took along the suggestion, the 3. Class of the vocational school for horticulture and also a small delegation from Altach to welcome. I would therefore like to do so, because, I believe, it is very useful, especially in the field of referendum, to deal briefly with the issues of democracy and participation. It is certainly useful and helpful for the debates here in the National Council to be pursued intensively so that people can get a picture of themselves here. What kind of picture does this initiative of the Freedom Party give us? I would like to address these in particular. First of all, Mr. Bundeskanzler. It is not surprising what has come in your direction from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. It is already the curse of evil deeds if you, at the time not as Chancellor of the Federal Republic, have written a letter to the largest daily newspaper and subordinated yourself to the content of this letter to their campaign journalism. It's bad, it's bad, and it's to hope that a self-confident head of government will never happen again. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The question you have to answer here was simple and touching: Is there a referendum now or not? I think that was not so much the concern of the Freedom Party, but the principle question is – to ask it is legitimate –: Is it now about deepening the Union's economic, social and financial policy issues or, at least, more coordination or is it about simply letting the whole thing go against the wall with a cheap course of populism? I admit, even as far as the BZÖ Group is concerned, that some descriptions of the sequences of these classifications, namely, that at the end banks and funds will benefit and above all be saved with them, are quite correct. The question is: What is the solution? How do we get out of there? And you don't offer anything. I'm going to go in shortly after that. Moreover, it is not as easy as you think to get out of this monetary union and, at least, crisis. The risks were known at the time, that is clear, and in part they have become striking; Professor Van der Bellen did the same. Only once again, because Mr. Klubobmann Strache understands it so much better, because he has some need for a follow-up: It is much easier to make a fish soup out of an aquarium, and even more difficult to make an aquarium out of the fish soup. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] These are questions that you need to take into account. You don't need that, of course, because you want to score cheaply with your master-in-law on a different level. But we will also invite SPÖ and ÖVP to stand up more strongly, because with this knee-soft attitude this populist idea is open door and gate. That's exactly what it's all about. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Now it will be time for you to show more courage here too, small approaches are already recognizable. We are – and you will hear this out here; I can repeat this – also available for these negotiations, if necessary, but the criticism you have heard, we exercise with conviction and with competence how you have been able to convince yourself if you have followed the statements made by our group for years and specifically by Professor Van der Bellen. That's not so surprising and so new what's coming. So it might even be about thinking about how we get out of it; I can briefly sketch it. Of course, we have to think about the question of the Eurobonds, because if we construct the event, then we could finally implement a system that could very well be involved in the private creditors, who at first deserve well – that has rightly been carried out, I think by my colleague, Bucher. Only once do you have to invent a system where you can do it at all. This would be the case, for example, that with Eurobonds we enter a certain proportion of the economic power of a country, shift it and organize the rest on the market. But then really has to rule the market, then it must not happen that you pick up cheap money, hide it more expensive, under the slogan, we, the private, take the risk, and then, when the risk gets striking, all pay, namely the European taxpayers. That's the redistribution action from bottom to top. That's where we agree. But we will have to offer a few solutions. Whether or not a referendum is relevant is another question. In any case, we are talking about greater harmonisation in European social, economic and financial policies. That's always good. We will need more tax harmonisation in order to stop this competition, and so on and so on. One last: Make this up between blue and orange, because it always goes back and forth! But a popular vote on the rescue of Hypo Alpe-Adria would not have been so bad, in view of the fact that Carinthia is more indebted than Greece. Anyone has to answer that! Certainly not these gentlemen here, certainly not we... [[Abg. Petzner: That's a fool! Such a fool!]] Of course that's true! There you have to look at it, because it is not to be seen that the Austrians now have to bathe out what you were responsible for. Maybe we're making a comparison of blue and orange in the U Committee. But you're not the lawyers of the population when you spend all the time here!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e10183	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Stadler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e10204	Federal Chancellor! High house! I did not trust my ears when you, as Chancellor of this Republic, said – and as such you are taking part in the Council meeting – that it was already clear when the euro was introduced that all the euro countries were liable for each other. [[Federal Chancellor Faymann: In a way!]] – What does “in a certain way” mean? Don't start to relativize your statement! You said it! I read to you Article 125 of the Lisbon Treaty. No-Bail-Out clause is the name of this article. [[Interference of Federal Chancellor Faymann.]] I'll read it to you. The spectator should know what he's got to think of his chancellor. [[BZÖ and Abg. Bitch.]] ‘The Union shall not be liable for the liabilities of central governments, regional or local authorities (...) and shall not be liable for such liabilities (...)’ And, Chancellor, this also applies between the individual Member States. Did this happen now? [[Interference of Federal Chancellor Faymann.]] Then why can you give such a sentence of yourself? You, Federal Chancellor, have now promised a referendum. At the time, however, a prominent editor-in-chief was still alive. And now you're going to be reminded that's legitimate. Faymann: Letterly promised – Faymann: Governmentally broken! That's the conclusion. [[In the case of the BZÖ, as well as the members of the FPÖ.]] But, ladies and gentlemen, even if you kept your own promises, we wouldn't save anything. It is crucial what you are doing at European level, you and your banking minister Pröll, who is not here today. Where are the regulations of financial markets? – Two days ago, I brought this package – I am convinced that I am one of the few who have read it at all – in the EU Subcommittee for treatment. [[The speaker holds a push of paper in the height]] A few members of the House were present at this debate. [[New interim remark by Federal Chancellor Faymann.]] - Please? The Secretary of State was there, perhaps he can tell you your old ego, your vicar. This package, ladies and gentlemen, does not provide for any regulation for the financial markets with any single sentence, does not provide for the supervision of what Mr Cap said! – Where is that, Mr Cap? Where's that? Ask the Secretary of State! Maybe you'll find it yourself. I'll give it to you, I'll make it available to you. With no single sentence, this package provides a regular for speculators! [[State Secretary Mag. Arbitrators: Just more show here, or what?]] – That’s not a show, but that’s fact! [[State Secretary Mag. Arbitrator: Well, yes!]] There's a State Secretary of the Red, who thinks that's a show! He hasn't read all this either, ladies and gentlemen. [[In the case of the BZÖ, as well as the members of the FPÖ.]] [[State Secretary Mag. Arbitrator: Oh yes!]] Ladies and gentlemen on the screens, so that you know who you are represented in Europe: from people who do not even know what is in the papers, from people who claim the content of the contract that there is no such thing! – Are you still wondering, ladies and gentlemen, that your money is being pruned out there?- Oh, my God! You don't need to wonder if that's your government representatives! No syllable is in this whole convoluted by a transaction tax, Mr Cap! No syllables! You promised, you said you were going to introduce that. No syllable of how to create banks, speculators a chain, how to control them, how to monitor them. No syllables! Do you know what's inside? Do you know that, Secretary of State? You know that? – No, you don’t know! [[State Secretary Mag. Arbitrator: Oh yes!]] Do you know what's inside? – A penalty tax for countries that are already financially in need. 0.1 percent of the gross domestic product will be paid as a penalty tax in the future if one does not comply with the budgetary discipline. The Federal Chancellor, out of service Schüssel, has provided an example of non-compliance with the budget discipline. Do you know what he said? For example, if you do not perform the long-term increase in the retirement age. – Aha, that is, one gets rid of the European Union and says that it is threatened with a criminal tax if the long-term increase in the retirement age of the population does not take place. What's the conclusion? – Banks and speculators cheer billions. Others enrich themselves with it. Then banks go here and get to the states, i.e. taxpayers, millions of liability, liability to the extent of hundreds of millions, and then the same banks go here and reach out to the pledges and mortgages they have in the basic books of small people in the next currency crisis – that is, Mr Cap, really meant with the impoverishment of the American middle class. What's going to be You are doing, Mr Bundeskanzler, to protect the small people from these banks and from these speculators who are only enriching themselves on the left and on the right? What means do you have? On the other hand, is it ready for the People's Republic of China to buy actually worthless government bonds of the Portuguese, Spanish and Greeks against potentially worthless dollars, which will make the next monetary crisis more programmed? What are you prepared to do, Mr State Secretary? [[Abg. May. Stefan: Nothing!]] Silence in the forest – nothing! You haven't even thought about it! – Well then, please stand up, Mr State Secretary, and finally refer to the Austrian people what you are planning! [[State Secretary Mag. Arbitrator: Oh yes!]] [[BZÖ's condolences.]] - Nothing you've got in your pocket! All you have promised so far is definitely not mentioned with any syllables in this convolut – with no single syllable! I'll make it available to you. [[The speaker shall hold the Secretary of State. Arbitrators face the above - mentioned document.]] You have speaking time in rough amounts. Get up and show us “nackerpatzerln”, which stands in there when you find it! – It’s nothing in there, ladies and gentlemen. I don't want to talk about the Austrian People's Party at all. The arrogance with which Mrs Plassnik said here with a government undertone that the population cannot be voted, the population does not understand that, that is all right anyway, has only once again Her True Attitude Showed [[Abg. That's a bottomless understatement! Take a little back!]] No speaker of the Austrian People's Party has today lost a critical sentence to a bank. It always has to pay the taxpayers and not the banks.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e10406	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[11:41:45]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e10430	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e10632	I also say that the Seventh Report of the Inconsistency Committee has been distributed to the members of the National Council. Notice of applications for the establishment of an investigation committee
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e10653	In accordance with § 33 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure requested a committee of inquiry to examine the role and development of the former Minister of Finance Mag. Karl-Heinz Grasser in the BUWOG affair respectively. It is the request of five delegates according to § 33 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure, to hold a debate on this request. Debates of the European Parliament 2 of the Rules of Procedure after completion of the agenda. In addition, in accordance with § 33 para., MEPs have Dr. Moser, colleagues. 1 of the Rules of Procedure requested the use of an investigative committee to investigate undue influences in the field of the Ministry of Finance. In addition, this is the case of five delegates, according to § 33 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure proposed that a debate be held on this request. The debate and the vote will also take place after the agenda has been completed. Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e10689	According to § 93 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure requested urgent consideration of the written question 7421/J tabled before the entry into the agenda by Mr Strache, colleagues and colleagues to the Federal Minister for Defence and Sport concerning the planned abolition of the general obligation to do so. Under the Rules of Procedure, the urgent question will be discussed at 3 p.m. Time-limitation request
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e10710	Before entering the agenda, I shall also inform you that the Members of Parliament have requested Bucher, colleagues and colleagues to report to the main committee on the application 1290/A of Members of Parliament, Bucher, colleagues, to conduct a popular survey pursuant to Article 49b B-VG on the maintenance of military service or the replacement by a volunteer army of a period of up to 28 years. ==References== In addition, this is the case of five delegates, according to § 43 para. 3 the request made by the Rules of Procedure to hold a brief debate on this request for a time limit. As this meeting called for urgent debate on a written question, the brief debate will take place following this one. Apart from the 24-hour lead-out period
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e10737	In order to be able to negotiate items 20 to 23 of the agenda, it is in accordance with § 44 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure required to waive the 24-hour deadline for the submission of the Committee's reports. Point 20 is the report from the Committee on Tourism on Amendment 1354/A(E) by Mr Heidrun Silhavy, Mr Franz Hörl, Dr Gabriela Moser, Mr Mag. Roman Haider, Stefan Markowitz, colleagues on Europe-wide harmonisation of the hotel's internal classification systems in 1058 of the supplements. Points 21 and 22 are reports by the Committee on Human Rights on amendments 1074/A/(E) by Mr Gerald Grosz, colleagues in relation to BstU-Akteninsicht and Mr Wolfgang Zinggl, colleagues in relation to the social and economic integration of Roma in 1059 and 1060 of the Supplements. Paragraph 23 is the report of the Committee on Immunities on the request of the Landesgericht Klagenfurt (19Hv 120/10 b) for approval of the administrative prosecution of the Member of the National Council Stefan Petzner, 1057 of the Supplements. [[Abg. Dr. Rasinger: Again!]] I would ask the ladies and gentlemen to give their agreement to the withdrawal from the time-limit for these committee reports. – This is unanimously accepted. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e10788	The debate on points 2 and 3, 6 to 8, 10 to 12 and 14 to 18 of the agenda is proposed. Are objections raised? - That's not the case. Let's go into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e10813	A consensus was reached between the members of the presidential conference on the duration of the debates. Accordingly, a day block time of 8 ‘Vienna hours’ has been agreed, so that the following speaking times arise: SPÖ and ÖVP per 112 minutes, FPÖ 100 minutes, Green 88 minutes and BZÖ 84 minutes. For the duration of the TV broadcast by the ORF following the current European hour until 1 p.m., the following statement was agreed: a round of speakers with 6 minutes each, a member of the SPÖ's government with 5 minutes, a round of speakers with 5 minutes each, are a total of 60 minutes. The call for speakers takes place in the first round in the order Greens, SPÖ, ÖVP, FPÖ and BZÖ and in the second round by group strength. Before the beginning of the last round of speakers, the President-in-Office shall distribute the remaining time in such a way that all political groups still speak evenly in the television era. Any actual corrections will only be made after the television period. Furthermore, according to § 57 para. 7 to limit the speaking time of Members without club membership to 10 minutes per debate. We shall now proceed to the vote on the speaking time just presented. If you agree with this proposal, I would ask for a sign on this point. – This is unanimously accepted. [[11:47:46]] 1. Point Choice of a writer
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e10861	We're coming to the 1st. Agenda item. In view of the withdrawal of Member Marianne Hagenhofer from the National Council, the choice of a writer must be made. The proposal of the Socialist parliamentary group for the secretary to be elected is to Mrs Gabriele Binder-Maier. Since there is only one election proposal, I will be in accordance with § 87 para. 7 in conjunction with § 66 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure shall not vote against them, but shall be cast off from the seats by raising them. On the other hand, is there any objection? - That's not the case. We will now come to the vote. I would ask those Members who are in favour of the proposal to elect Member Gabriele Binder-Maier as the author, to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. I'm asking the electorate if she's taking the choice. [[Abg. Binder-Maier: Yes!]] Thank you. This is also the purpose of this agenda. [[11:48:48]] 2. Point Report of the Constitutional Committee on Amendment 935/A by Dr Peter Wittmann, Dr Peter Sonnberger, Members of Parliament on a Federal Constitutional Law on the Rights of Children (1051 d.b.) 3rd. Point Report of the Constitutional Committee on Amendment 928/A(E) by Mr Tanja Windbüchler-Souschill, Members of Parliament, on ‘6 out of 45’ is too little – all children’s rights in the Constitution (1052 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e10921	We come to points 2 and 3 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mr Scheibner spoke on business. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e10961	Mr President. Today we have a very important presentation of the Constitutional Committee on the agenda. An agreement has been reached for many months. Above all, the government parties have also pressed for a rapid conclusion. We would have expected that today the Federal Chancellor – he was in the house until recently – will be present as responsible for the Constitutional Committee and the Minister of Family responsible for this matter. In view of the importance of this matter, I consider it inadmissible and an underestimation that two State Secretarys represent the competent ministers. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Two idealess!]] I propose to quote the Federal Chancellor and the Minister for Family Affairs here.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e11019	For business treatment: Mr. Klubobmann's head. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e11043	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Above all: Ladies and gentlemen from BZÖ! You know the Rules of Procedure, and you know that, of course, it corresponds to the Rules of Procedure and the Uzances that State Secretarys can represent the members of the government in Parliament. [[Deputies Mag. Stadler and Ing. Westenthaler:Eben!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: No one disputed that!]] [[Call the SPÖ: This is your job!]] Mr Ostermayer, the State Secretary, has already commented on this legislative matter in a very profound way in the relevant Constitutional Committee, very detailed in his reply to the questions raised, so one could already imagine in the Committee that he has dealt very closely with this matter, and we will be able to see in the course of the debate that the Secretary of State, Ms Verena Remler, responsible for family matters can answer our questions as well and will comment in a very detailed manner. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: We must strongly doubt that!]] I cannot therefore understand your vocation or your intention in any way, and everyone here in the hall will probably only consider it a very cheap and unnecessary action towards the two members of the government present. [[Hello call at BZÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: These are not government members! They're not government members! Let him read the Rules of Procedure.]] I would urge you to respect and accept these uses and also the Rules of Procedure. By the way, it was you who, not too long ago, wanted to see the Secretary of State on the Government and have an opinion from her. – They will have such a thing today.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e11156	For business treatment: Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Cap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e11181	I would like to begin by saying that I am glad that we can conclude this parliamentary initiative today. We hope that there will also be a majority in plenary; we had them in committee. This is a very long and intensive discussion process. This is a very, very decisive decision for the development and safeguarding of children's rights. They are raised to the constitutional rank, and I think that is very important. Because it is so important, the Federal Chancellor and the Minister of Family Affairs were always involved and, of course, have understood and discussed this over a longer period of time. Mr. State Secretary Ostermayer, as my previous speaker Klubobmann Kopf said, has participated in this process in an extremely competent way. However, I would like to say something basic, and that I do not feel it is right that here the underestimation of the function of the State Secretary is always wavering. I don't think that's all right! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Oh that! That's exactly what Mr. Cap, who has been most excited, says! This is a hypocrisy to the no longer going!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: In blue-black and blue-orange you have...!]] The State Secretarys are part of this government work and often do a lot of government work, and this is often unthankful. I think it is legal, of course, and it is also justified if they take over this representative. I believe that, in the sense of respect for us both here in Parliament and for the government's State Secretarys, it is absolutely right that this is happening in this form today, this initiative you are setting up here does not understand at all and is of the opinion that this is exactly the right composition.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e11252	For business treatment: Mrs. Klubobfrau Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e11276	Mr President. Although it is in accordance with business rules that the Secretary of State and the Secretary of State are carrying out representations here, I still have to say: So many constitutional laws have not yet been passed in the House during this legislative period. It has been a “great” constitutional discussion – under quotations – and it is remarkable that the Federal Chancellor, but also the Vice-Chancellor, does not also personally perceive this long discussion on how to improve the situation of children and young people in Austria. This is not an underestimation to you, Mrs State Secretary and Mr State Secretary, but it is evidence of a disdain on the part of the two previously mentioned against the rights of children and young people in Austria. – That must also be said. We are therefore in favour of the request.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e11304	For business treatment: Mr. Klubobmann Strache. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e11330	The Freedom Club will also join the request to quote the two competent ministers, because it would be necessary, in the end, to follow this debate, also because of the respect and responsibility of the ministers. I think that their absence is expressed in the fact that the subject and the Constitution will be greatly appreciated, as we have unfortunately had to experience it in the recent past, in the context of the break-up of the Constitution in the context of the budget. It is very much a matter of appreciation to Parliament. We have also encouraged – and we would like to have this debate – to save the two state secretariats. The office should not have been re-occupied after the end of a former Secretary of State, who did not have a successful election in Vienna. In any case, it is about respect for Parliament, respect for the Constitution and also respect for the issue of children's rights which we are debating today. That is why it is necessary for both competent ministers to meet this respect and responsibility to Parliament as well.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e11360	There are no further statements on business treatment. I come to the vote on Mr Scheibner's request to bring the two members of the government to the vote. Whoever is in favour of this request, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. [[Abg. Rädler: A storm in the water glass!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The next champagne reception will be prepared!]] [[Abg. Grosz: Tomorrow is the next mushroom reception...!]] We are going into the debate. First, Mrs. Klubobfrau, Dr. Glawischnig-Piesczek. 6 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e11429	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Mr State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The UN Convention on Children's Rights is an incredible milestone in fundamental rights development, in the fundamental rights discussion at international level, a very large and very modern contract to protect the human rights of children and young people and certainly a milestone in the further development of the entire fundamental rights discussion. The spirit of this convention – and this is the remarkable point – is a complete shift in focus away from the idea of children as an attachment to the idea of children and young people as carriers of independent rights – a sign change that would have been urgently necessary in Austria. It is probably about 41 well-balanced, long-term articles and the very clear goal of improving the situation of children and young people. What is the spirit of the constitutional novel, the novel that the government has sent to the house and which is likely to be decided today? It's a little ghost. It's the goal of not changing anything. One takes note of what one is willing to implement, one is pifting at the rest, and one does not take on any of this great project, in any form something dynamic, to bring a further development into the situation of children's and young people's rights in Austria. This paper, which you want to decide today, will not change the situation of children and young people in Austria – nothing original. Former National Council President Khol found a very critical expression for such constitutional provisions. He called such a “constitutional shooter. ” The fact that the draft law to be adopted today is very bad because you miss a huge opportunity to actually improve something. If you decide so today, this shows that you feel that the situation of children and young people in Austria is okay and there is nothing to improve. – I am convinced of the opposite. There are very open issues, such as child health, the risk of poverty for children and young people, the opportunities for education of children and young people, discrimination against children and young people who do not have an Austrian passport. Protection against violence is also still dependent in Austria on the postal code and on regional resources in the Youth Office. – This is not the spirit of the UN Convention on Children’s Rights! You do not want to improve anything in these areas, and you have now excluded the areas that contain major problems, such as children's health, the risk of poverty, the right to education. I would like to demonstrate in detail where there is a need for improvement. With regard to the health data of children and young people – which is now internationally proven, in the 2010 UNICEF report – Austria is the last place in all EU countries – in the final place! With us you pay a hospital fee if you as a family have the accident that a child has to go to the hospital for a long time, chronically ill children, especially mentally ill children with psychosocial problems, with chronic and lifestyle diseases, wait a very long time for appropriate treatment. In Austria, 260 000 children and young people under the age of 19 are at risk of poverty; many also live in manifest poverty. That is, during the kindergarten trip or during the ski trip, the children are sick, or they can't invite friends home because you can't afford it. We put minors in prisons, which means pushy; this is possible in Austria for up to ten months. With us, 16-year-olds, even though they have been living here in Austria for a very long time, can be postponed and separated from their parents and their families. With us, young asylum seekers have no way of teaching. Higher schools are closed to them, higher schools do not have to take up asyl-seeking young people. And we still have the situation in youth welfare that there is a crisis center in one federal state, none in another federal country. Protection against violence depends exclusively on whether human and financial resources are available at the youth office to intervene and to help people in crises. This is a highly unsatisfactory situation. You have now had the opportunity, with an offensive, courageous and dynamic implementation of this Convention on Children's Rights, to improve something in all these areas. You don't take this opportunity. That's very bad. And this is above all a blow in the face of a very large citizens' initiative; A few weeks ago, 120 000 people filed a petition in the hall of the high house, a petition in which they have clearly declared themselves and said: We don't want children to go to prison in Austria. However, the implementation here is a blow to the face of these 120,000 people who have declared themselves and who demand from politics that there be something different for young people and children in Austria than prison. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The arguments you now bring to advertise for your implementation of the Child Law Convention... [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: Very unfair argumentation!]] – Mr Wittmann says that this is very unscrupulous. I think if You would ask these 120,000 people what they think of your voting behaviour today, then you would hear from them that they are very, very disappointed, especially from the SPÖ. [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: Very unscrupulous!]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: The argument is very unscrupulous!]] Especially from you, the signals have come that you don't want that anymore. Neither do you want children and young people to be pushed into custody, and you have a chance to change this. Your arguments are always the same, you say: In Austria everything is great anyway, we have already implemented everything anyway. – I ask: What do you need fundamental rights if you've already implemented everything? And then what prevents you from simply including the entire catalogue of the Convention on Child Law in the Constitution? You'll explain it to me right now. Why Set You're still keeping these milky five articles, six articles under a reservation of law? That is, any simple law can eliminate this great promise in the Constitution, especially the rights of foreigners. You know where that comes from, that was Mrs Fekter, who wanted to have this reservation of law. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] Especially the problem areas that we have actually solved in the Austrian Convention – the right to education, the right to health, the right to adequate standard of living and the minimum of existence, all of which we had cast into a fundamental legal form, but not decided – you now take this out. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign again]] And that is a shame that this convention is being decided in this form of injustice in the constitutional order.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e11528	Next speaker: Mrs Lueger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e11549	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! ==References== The UN Convention on Children's Rights was adopted 22 years ago at the General Assembly of the United Nations. Austria signed it in 1990 and the National Council approved the Convention six months later, on 5 July 1990. It then entered into force formally on 1 September 1992. Austria was thus one of 182 states on earth who had ratified this Convention on Children's Rights – except America and Somalia. Nevertheless, the situation was unsatisfying – and this is also the reason why we are constantly discussing it. Although the UN Convention on Children's Rights was part of the Austrian legal system, it is not directly applicable. In their decisions, authorities and courts cannot directly refer to the Convention on Child Law. If we are now implementing this draft, this is the first step in the right direction. Of course, I would also like to address the criticisms. If you say that articles have been taken out here, which were somehow involuntary, then I will come back to it again; [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: No, not involuntary! Randomly!]] You said it yourself in your argument: At the time when the catalogue of fundamental rights was made in the context of the Austrian Convention, there was an above-party uniform opinion... [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: I was there, not you! I know what it was like!]] – You were there, and you also voted in favour. There was this one-bright opinion. It is true that this catalogue of fundamental rights has never been implemented. And as a result, this part of children's rights has never been implemented. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Right to education, right to health – where is that?]] A new start was launched in 2009, but the opposition blockade did not lead to a two-thirds majority. That is why we are so far today – after numerous negotiations, after numerous rounds with experts who also attended the Constitutional Committee, after many, many discussions. The current proposal has also been supported by a majority of the Committee. The proposal provides for positively indictable rights which have a meaning in Western democracy today. If you claim, once again, that the entire UN Convention on Children's Rights is not recorded, I can briefly show you what you have mentioned in the example of education. [[Abg. Dr. Glawischnig-Piesczek: The Austrian Convention provided for a right to education! You know that!]] Article 28 of the UN Convention on Children's Rights states: The Contracting States are invited to recognise the right to education. It is also formulated there: The primary school's visit should be free of charge for all. You should know, Mrs. Dr. Glawischnig, that in our federal constitution we are in the manner. 14 para. 7a are compulsory at the age of nine. You should know that we are in the federal constitution in kind. 14 para. 5a have said that no matter what origin, in what social situation and from what social background, the best level of education for children is to be guaranteed. The constitutional expert Professor Funk, who worked actively at the time, also said in an interview himself that there had been changes in the course of this development. With us, the guarantees already contained in the legal order are in labour law, family law, religious law and school law. So: The Convention hardly brings anything here that could not be dealt with by the fact that it is poured into individual legal provisions. – Professor Funk, who worked on this draft at the time. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: quote him right!]] Then, of course, always criticize the way. 7, retention of the law. This is exactly reworded in Article 8(2) EMRK. There is already a... – This is applicable law – or do you want to dispute it? [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: The Good... Children! There's no such thing as the whole MRK!]] And if he is a law in force, there is a modern Judicature in this regard. Today, in the “Small Newspaper”, a renowned constitutional lawyer, Heinz Mayer, says: "However, the constitutional lawyer Mayer cannot understand the protest about the retention of the law. A child who is rightly postponed with his parents cannot say: I have a right to stay in Austria because of the Convention on Children's Rights. This would not be possible even if one would have renounced the retention of the law.’’’’ [[Abg. Windbüchler-Souschill:... Toss children!]] This is not the case in the Convention on Children's Rights. That's always what you'd like to interpret. We want positive rights, we want positive rights in particular for disabled children. We want these positive rights so that there is also equality between disabled children. It is important to take part in and co-determination, which are good examples now, but should then become a rule. These are very simple things that contribute to a good and common democracy. And if participation for young people promotes commitment, competence, self-confidence and their autonomy, then these are the conditions that we present ourselves as SPÖ in a living democracy.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e11673	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Molterer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e11695	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! There is probably consensus above that in this house and far beyond, that a society is measured by how it deals with the weakest, and the children belong to it. It is therefore our natural duty that we do everything we can to ensure protection and safety for children. This has a long tradition in Austria, not even today's debate. Austria has had a clear legal system for many years, both on a constitutional and simple legal level, which provides protection and security for children, the most valuable asset for the future, ladies and gentlemen. I would therefore also like to thank all those who have participated in this debate over the past few months and years – a good discussion even if a critical discussion is conducted, which is part of democracy. I would therefore like to thank the fact that the issue of children's rights, the rights of this hope for the future of the country, has thus become more central and more aware of the public. That's good. Ladies and gentlemen, this consensus makes it possible for us today to change the Constitution on a broad basis and to create a federal constitution law to implement the UN Convention on Children's Rights. I am expressly grateful for this broad consensus – including the opposition parties who are going along this path. This is a good way for Austria, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Mrs Glawischnig, we also owe an answer to those who have participated in this discussion – that is true – why we have chosen this path. I expect this fairness in the fight, too, from you. You rightly expect this from us; I also expect it from you. Some of the things you said just aren't right. Let's ask you: What would it mean if we really had tel quel, literally implemented everything from the UN Convention on Children's Rights? Ladies and gentlemen, you need to know! – For example, it would have meant that we are in Article 20 para. 3 of the UN Convention on Children's Rights have a reference to Islamic law. I, we don't want that. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: This is Polish now!]] The Austrian legal system applies and no other, ladies and gentlemen! If we had done this literally – I read this to you, Mrs Glawischnig, so that everyone knows it – then, for example, Article 38 of the UN Convention on Children's Rights in Austria would be constitutional law. You know what's in there? – It says that it would be possible for children to be called into military operations from 15 onwards. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Protection from armed...!]] Is that what you want? - We don't want that. [[As a result, the Commission has not yet received any comments from the interested parties.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this signal is therefore fatal that you simply give completely false information here with better knowledge – you are a lawyer. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: This is an absolutely unscrupulous discussion! You're talking about fairness? That's the last one!]] Ladies and gentlemen! What would it mean if we were to address the issue of water? – In Austria we have a long and clear tradition: clean water for everyone. If we were to apply the UN Convention on Children's Rights, we would send a signal that would call into question this natural nature of Austria. We don't want that. For example, if you say that we do not have the level of the UN Convention on Children's Rights when it comes to education, I must tell you that you are talking about better knowledge. Why? – Because we have had the right to education in the Austrian Constitution since 1964, and even through the UN Convention on Children’s Rights, ladies and gentlemen, we have a duty to education. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek:... provided in the Fundamental Rights Catalogue! I don't know!]] Therefore, if we were to implement the UN Convention on Children's Rights, we would reduce the level of security and protection in Austria in the field of education. Is that what you want? Not us, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with ÖVP, SPÖ and FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: That's a joke!]] As far as the retention of the law is concerned, Mrs Lueger has already pointed out: The retention of the law is a very natural matter of the legal order, which, by the way, also knows the UN Convention on Children's Rights itself. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Be a little more serious! Mr Molterer! You're so unscrupulous!]] Mrs Glawischnig! Articles 13 and 14 – in both, the UN Convention on Children's Rights is equipped with a reservation of law. What we are doing is exclusively to understand one thing that the European Convention on Human Rights knows. The retention of the law is therefore quite natural. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: This is so unfair what you're doing here! Unfair and unfair to all those who have worked!]] Mrs. Glawischnig, read yesterday’s edition of the “Small Newspaper”, in which Professor Grabenwarter says: "However, all 45 children's rights in the UN Convention would have been said to pour out the child with the bath. Many articles simply do not fit for Austria or are anchored elsewhere in (constitutional) laws. Also, the possibility of adequately restricting children’s rights by law in certain cases is not a case of sin, but of normality in (almost) all fundamental rights – also in the EU.” It also says: “In total, this is a positive step in the constitutional reform.” – Professor Grabenwarter. There's nothing to add to that. That is why we agree with this step with good conscience. It's a far-reaching, a real step. Ladies and gentlemen, but – last sentence –: The legal system is one, we are improving it today in terms of protection and safety for children. The practical life is the second. What I want to do with this discussion is also to give rise to the fact that we are continuing this public debate. A clear signal: We want a child-friendly society. We want a society that says yes to children, because only a society that says to children says yes to their own future. I thank you for this broad consensus. It is a good step for Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e11864	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Stefan. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e11885	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Mr. State Secretary! High house! Today we anchor children's rights in the Constitution, and we, the FPÖ, are participating because it makes sense. However: If I look at reality and, above all, as in Austria, we are dealing with constitutional law, this does not make any particular mention of positive things. We remember that, for example, the Steering Committee or the social partners, the Chambers were raised in the constitutional order. You can see here how abusive it is. So today's step is to be measured in so far as it is to be feared that there is nothing special about it. Secondly, Political reality says something different than that the family and the children are now suddenly being put in focus. It was only a very short time ago that we decided on a budget - we did not decide it, you decided it as a government party - in which primarily the families were taxed, in which €480 million were saved at the expense of the families. Then we make ourselves here and today anchor the children and thus also the families indirectly in the Constitution and pretend that we suddenly put this at the centre of our policy. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This budget may even be unconstitutional. We'll see. We are also fighting it because it is precisely because it has been used in a constitutional way and family benefits have been shortened in a way that contradicts the principle of equality. So we'll see if even the budget is going to be In this respect, it is not possible to find a solution to this problem. Today we put children's rights in the Constitution. It is also true that the shortcomings in the protection of children, as has just been said, are, unfortunately, still very large in Austria, as unfortunately in a very tragic case, in the murder of the three-year-old in Vorarlberg. Further reality is that the soul of the children is unfortunately often sacrificed at the altar of pedagogical procedures, because children do not have the opportunity to really have contact with both parents, and because many children – Zig thousands in Austria – are permanently separated from one parent. That's reality. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But what can bring about the anchoring of children's rights? – Firstly, it should be noted that it is explicitly stated here that children should have a personal relationship and direct contact with both parents. So that's a step in the right direction. In addition, children should also be asked in their opinion in the appropriate way. These are two very essential points, which are now in the constitutional order, from which it is to be deduced and hoped that this will also be implemented in simple legislative measures, leading, for example, to the introduction of a common care in Austria in order to ensure that children can maintain contact with both parents. Anything else would be a custodial of mental harm to these children. Another point is: Thanks to the FPÖ initiative, it has also been noted that the family environment is the natural environment for the growth and growth of children. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It must be borne in mind that it was explicitly necessary for us to exert pressure here, since it is apparently not important for the government's social model to state that children should first and foremost grow up in the family and that this would be their natural basis. There was even massive resistance. So it's amazing how it's supposed to be. But what is further to be held is the retention of the law. – Yes, we stand by this retention of law. We even consider it very important, because it must be so that, in the sense of national security and public peace and order, restrictions can be imposed here. Otherwise, what we have seen is what happens: that children are abused, that children are actually abused in asylum and foreign law, in fact, to prevent deportations or certain State measures. This should not happen, and therefore such a retention of law is a very essential point. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I would also like to point out that in recent years we have called for at least ten very concrete measures to protect children, all of which have been rejected. I only read them stakkato-like, because I have very little time. We have called for an increase in criminal offences in the case of sexual offences against minors. We have called for a mandatory advertising obligation for those who have a professional relationship with minors. – This has not been implemented, it has not even been decided. We have called for the possibility of chemical castration, especially for repeaters. – It has been rejected. We have called for the expansion and comprehensive provision of psychotherapy sites and increased victim assistance especially for children and families. – To be rejected. The creation of a victim fund for victims of sexual offences. – To be rejected. We have called for reliefs such as releases not to be applied to offenders who have committed sexual offences. – To be rejected. We have called for the preparation of a study on relapse rate and resocialisation of sexual offenders. – To be rejected. We have called for the federal computer networking of hospitals and hospitals to ensure that not what happened now in Vorarlberg has also happened, namely that parents can go to different hospitals so that children are often abused, so we have called for an advertising and communication obligation. – To be rejected. We have called for the publication of data in the event of severe sexual abuse of the unmistakable. – To be rejected. And we called for an extension of the mother-child-pass investigation to the tenth year of life, because one could also see there that, in reality, abuse took place. – To be rejected. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] So all of this has been rejected. We will therefore take this opportunity today to strengthen our work for the children and for the families in this Republic. We only hope – and this will be crucial – that immigration will not be promoted in the future as a result of ideological blending – and not our own young people.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e12019	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Stadler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e12041	Mr President. High house! First of all, I think, the Committee has made it very clear that today's novels of our constitutional law are norming state objectives. These are not provisions that directly execute themselves, so to speak, but these are national objectives. One will have to consider simple laws, other laws, including those of the local authorities, i.e. norms of the countries and the municipalities, in the light of these national objectives, because the other territorial authorities are also subject to these national objectives. That is to say, it will be very important to look forward to the budgetary design of youth welfare institutions in the future. It will be very important for us to change the criminal code and the rules of criminal proceedings. And it will be very important for us to change the right to dispute, for example, when it comes to the role of children among the apex of these constitutional novels in the process of care and visitation. In other words, there is a need for adaptation, and one should say immediately that this need for adaptation will have to deal with us next. But, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and Greens, if you pretend to have invented children's rights almost original, I have to keep you: First: Children's rights do not apply to you if they are unborn children. Then there are no children's rights for you, especially for you from the Greens. Then, in any case, women's rights are more important than children's rights. This is a relativization of the protection of children, which I do not share, and I will therefore vote today for a request which Mr Fichtenbauer, obviously, still wants to make. Secondly, I have remembered the debate with your two political groups in one of the last committee meetings of the Justice Committee very well when it came to the question: Announcement – yes or no? This is a trial case for children's rights. I would like to inform you today of Mrs. Carina Kerschbaumer’s opinion in the “Small Newspaper” where she writes literally: “The anchoring of some children’s rights in the Constitution may be an important symbolic signal, but the protection of vulnerable children will certainly be decided elsewhere.” I share this opinion. Ladies and gentlemen, let us take a look at what have been happening in recent years! I can still recall the debate at the time – you can also take it yourself – when the small Melvin was bred in Milk in 1997 and died. I have already called for a general obligation to display. At the time, it was also apparent that the small Melvin could probably still be alive if the facts had been reported early on, which were already known at the time. We then had other cases, such as that of the little Iris in Lower Austria, who was seriously abused as a three-monthly child, as a baby, with brain hemorrhage, and finally died. A two-month-old child in the district of Innsbruck, a infant, also severely damaged, was killed by an unemployed 18-year-old who had a life relationship with her mother. Luca, a 17-month-old child. There the social worker knew about the abuses, but she didn't make an ad. Then there was a criminal proceedings against them. It was first condemned for not doing anything, but it was acquitted at the Oberlandesgericht. Why? - Because there was no signatory for her, ladies and gentlemen. Luca could still be alive if this lady had had the commitment to show! And I remember the debate when you said: No, you can't think of the doctors, the social workers and the therapists, so you can only achieve the opposite effect! - Which one? The effect would be that this whole Clique would finally be taken into real legal responsibility, ladies and gentlemen! [[In the case of the BZÖ, as well as the members of the FPÖ.]] That would be the effect: That at last there would be real legal responsibility for social workers, for doctors, for therapists, for family workers, for this whole new industry. What if they are not obliged to protect children who are at risk of their existence? It's not about them doing it, but it's about having to do it – otherwise I don't need it, or I don't need to feed it with fat salaries, ladies and gentlemen, all this equipment, this new industry that's been created here. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Schwentner.]] - Thank you for your call! They were also one of the Members who said that this was unnecessary, harmful even. In Luca case, I show you – if you don't believe it, ask the father or look You're going to take the act –: Luca could still be alive today if the social worker had been obliged to return an advertisement, my dear colleague! [[In the case of the BZÖ, as well as the members of the FPÖ.]] But it is good that all spectators see that the greatest resistance comes from the greens. Why? – Because this is, of course, the professional clique that is not by chance particularly close to you, that is known. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: You are talking about “fat salaries” of social workers!? You have no idea!]] The salaries are quite passive compared to what is often done there, believe me. But it's your industry, it's your clientele, we know. Unfortunately, there is no such thing as the ÖVP. Why? – Because it would mean additional posts in youth welfare because it would have to create additional homes if advertising were to prevail, because doctors who are now and then also close to the ÖVP would finally come into a real legal responsibility which they do not have at present – unfortunately. That is why I am telling you, ladies and gentlemen, that “papers”, including today’s law, would not have saved any of these children from themselves. It will be the test of how seriously you really mean it with the rescue, with the protection of children, when it comes to the simple legal implementation of what we decide here today. And I urge you, and quickly, in view of the case of Cain – this child is dramatically called Cain – a child who was killed with a broom handle by a drug addict, where the police had to bring a child down from the roof before because it has fled from this man on the roof! – And nothing has happened, ladies and gentlemen! [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] These are the actual scandals. And I tell you, if everyone here gets away again, not only the perpetrator himself, but all those who share responsibility here, then this law is not worth the paper on which it is written! [[In the case of the BZÖ, as well as the members of the FPÖ.]] I therefore ask you to introduce effective implementation measures into real legal responsibility.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e12116	I now give the floor to Mr Secretary of State Dr. Ostermayer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e12151	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen! I regret the fact that the debate has started relatively hesitantly and aggressively. I am all the more pleased that this issue, namely the implementation of the essential parts of the Convention on Children's Rights into the Austrian Constitution, is on the agenda for many, many years. I would also like to expressly thank Mr Klubobmann Kopf and Mr Klubobmann Cap for the positive and encouraging words. [[Call the BZÖ:Cap?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: (showing on the subjects) Da Molterer – da Kopf! Head has spoken!]] I think we always have to consider if we make demands, such as, for example, the whole Convention on Children's Rights in the Austrian Constitution... – I can distinguish between Mr Klubobmann Head... [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That was in the Rules of Procedure!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: We should be the Federal Chancellor...!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That was in the GO debate!]] No, at the beginning, Mr Klubobmann spoke in the debate which was the introduction to that. So if we make such demands, we have to consider what we put into the Constitution. I think the Constitution is, as it were, a very essential standard component in Austria, and it should be taken into account in particular what is being taken up there, and in particular the sense of the matter. We have had a very profound discussion in the Committee last week, I think, about it, which has also been very factual. The two constitutional lawyers, Dr. Hesse of the Constitutional Service and Dr. Grabenwarter, member of the Constitutional Court, have explained in detail why it is useful to take over certain parts and not certain parts. I have also spoken there, and Mr Molterer has also mentioned some examples today and has made it clear why it would not be useful to accept them. I can't understand why this is supposed to be immeasurable and polemic, Mrs. Klubobfrau. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Because it's a nonsense!]] No, no, no, If you were to take the step to take it in total, you would put certain signals in it. This has also been explained by the constitutional lawyer Öhlinger, but this has also explained in detail to Heinz Mayer that it sets certain signals and that the signal of the implementation or decision of this bill is: Child welfare, priority of child welfare, is very important to us. That's a signal. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: This is Farm Federal Logic! That's not an argument! That's the reservation!]] I wanted to say something later on, but I'll say it right away. Dr. Grabenwarter has explained in detail that there are always reservations and that one can choose whether the reservation of the Constitutional Court is in his jurisdiction or whether it is made by the Constitutional Legislator. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: No, that's not true!]] And I only bring you a quote from the Dean of the largest Austrian Faculty of Law, Professor Heinz Mayer, who says – and that has already been quoted by colleague Lueger – that: “The protest against the draft is covered and goes by the subject.” And why, he also explained that in this interview, and some examples have already mentioned Mr Molterer. If we assume that, and this is what we have to do with a constitutional provision, we also have to consider: What are these signals?, and if we take over everything, that means that we might trigger misunderstandings or certainly trigger misunderstandings in certain observers. [[Abg. Dr. Glawischnig-Piesczek: Right to merger, right to education – that was all in the Austrian Convention, without any problem!]] The constitutional rule that there should be no criminal prosecution for a child – we speak here of up to 18 years – is something like that in Austria, of course, that I do not have to regulate it extra. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: You don't need fundamental rights after the argument!]] It is perfectly clear that there should be no punishment without law – we have regulated this! Or the other question, the example mentioned by Mr Molterer, with the participation in armed conflicts of 15 years of age, or an arrangement, if this is not the case, to be called up between 15, 16, 17 and 18 years of age: This is a regulation that we do not need, quite the contrary, we have already regulated it differently and are now discussing whether we are suspending or not suspending the exception from the Convention on Human Rights, namely in the case of compulsory labour. [[Does the FPÖ call for ‘compulsory labour’?]] Yes, this is regulated in the Human Rights Convention, and this is an exception to this provision. This is currently valid international but also Austrian law. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] It's already ringing, I'll do it briefly. – I think there are very, very good, very, very important reasons why you implement the essential. There have been different discussions as to whether or not this should be part of it. I believe that it is important to implement what is now a broad agreement. And I say one last final sentence, Mr President Our task is also to see that the Constitution will continue to work in the future, that there is not a mess. [[Abg. Grosz: President, not “Chairman”!]] That is why we have stated in the government programme that we want to create a catalogue of fundamental rights – difficult topic, long not working, we try again. But that would have been counterproductive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e12350	Next speaker: Mr Wittmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e12371	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! I believe that the argument that all the points of the UN Charter on Children's Rights should be incorporated into the Constitution is dangerous. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Right to education, right to education...!]] Ladies and gentlemen, I know that you know for yourself that your argumentation was inconvenient. I know that, too. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: You have a memory gap!]] In the Convention you agreed to the first six points of this application, which was, so to speak, a consensus matter in the Convention. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek.]] That is, you yourself agreed to this wording of child rights as fundamental rights. Only the reservation that has been added was not present in the Convention. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Not right!]] You know you agreed, and you know you agreed. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: That was the entire fundamental law catalogue!]] That was reasonable, too, because if you take over the points of the UN Children's Charter, I ask you: Do you know what the Children's Charter is? – A diplomatic text that applies to countries from Myanmar via Nigeria to Austria! That is, the formulation of these children's rights is always measured at the lowest level that could create a consensus. And you do not want to explain to me that the Constitution of Myanmar has a higher legal standing or a higher legal certainty than the Constitution of Austria! These wordings are intended to write these minimum requirements into a constitution. It's given to us! [[Abg. Dr. Glawischnig-Piesczek: Right to education, right to health?- Oh, my God!]] And if I hear from the committee, We have no right to education, then I have to say: Read the article 2 of the EMRK! There's even a headline. Right to education. Therefore: I think your argument is wrong, you yourself are not convinced! I am convinced that some children's rights have not been fully read. [[Abg. Dr. Glawischnig-Piesczek: This is a kneefall of the SPÖ in front of the colleague Fekter!]] The colleague, Mr Molterer, has very seriously referred to the wording contained in it. In Article 20(1), point (a) is replaced by the following: 3 refers to the Kafala, to the family of care under Islamic law! Do you want the legal status of our Constitutional Judicature to be?- Oh, my God! This has not lost anything in our cultural and legal system! So don't be angry, but you can't relate to that here. Mr Molterer also pointed out that access to drinking water must be ensured. – This applies to the countries of a desert, but not to Austria, where it is enforced across the board! [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Where is that?]] That is what I believe in Article 24. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: I'm looking at that right now!]] You only have to keep in mind one thing: We have also received an EU Charter of Fundamental Rights through the Treaty of Lisbon. There is also the right to health. This right to health is contained in Article 35 of the EU Charter of Fundamental Rights. This is the constitutional stock, and if you take on board the wording in it, for example in Article 40, then you would remove the modern jurisdiction of our Constitutional Court, but also the Court of Justice of Human Rights, which has European standards, because this article would be far below this standard, and thus you would harm our children. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Such a nonsense!]] You would harm our children if you took it literally, because the legal system is based on a lower threshold. This is a division for developing countries! I have also asked your representatives in the committee quite openly to explain to me what point the UN Children's Charter has not been implemented in Austria, either constitutionally or simply legally. – There is no point! None of your participants could tell me a point that would not have been taken over from this Children's Charter and would have been fulfilled, either by law or by constitutional law. In Austria, this Charter is fully implemented. But I'm with you: Of course, we lack simple legal provisions in some parts of the case law! [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] Children's rights can never be extended enough, never really finally secured. But you can regulate everything simply by law. The Convention on Children's Rights is fully implemented in our legal order.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e12538	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Fuhrmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e12559	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, above all those who participate in the discussion in front of the television screens! If today there might have been the impression that there were no children's rights in Austria, then I have to oppose this very clearly. That is not the case, of course! Only because we only today decide on the anchoring of children's rights in the Constitution does not mean that the right to health, the right to education, the right to protection and care have not yet been applied to children in the Austrian legal system. Of course, many important decisions have been made by the legislator to support, to provide for children and young people in simple laws. It would also be fatal if it hadn't been so. Why, though, was it important for us to anchor these seven articles – which have not yet been addressed in concrete terms today in the discussion – in the Constitution? – That is why the Constitutional Court can now also be concerned with these issues when disputes arise. This is the essential difference of the anchorage in the Constitution. The first article means that every child is entitled to protection and care. The second article regulates how important it is that each child also has the right to direct contact with the two parents. The third article states that child labour is prohibited. Article 4 states that the child must also be consulted in proceedings carried out. Article 5 regulates the right to non-violence education. And in the sixth point, it says: Children with and without disabilities should be treated equally “in all areas of daily life. ” These six important and significant statements are now to be incorporated into the Constitution. But I'm right about some of the previous speakers who said: To anchor these six points in the Constitution is no more or less than a sense of will and a sense of consciousness. - Yeah, that's right. However, I think that this should be an important place in the Austrian constitution and that it is also important that the House should make a confession. What happens in everyday life, in daily practice and whether children are actually protected from lack of care or even violence by means of constitutional anchoring is another question. That is why raising awareness in our society is important and essential. Today it has already been mentioned that in the future it is also necessary to discuss the need to look ahead and not look away, and to call on adults or even to discuss obligations to bring abuses to the attention or at least to present them to the public. I think that's a discussion that needs to be held anyway. Of course, children cannot be protected by an anchoring of children's rights in the Constitution or by legal regulations if the population if we people do not stick to it in Austria. I would just like to remind you of one thing, namely that, in a debate on yes or no, we must not forget the obligation to display the opinions of all, including those concerned, because there is already a fear that, in the case of an advertising obligation, a possible scepticism of the victims may exist, when it comes to articulate the suffering that has been done to you, because one fears a possible advertisement. And, of course, we do not intend that this will result in a reduction in the use of aid. However, I am of the opinion that there is also a political need for discussion on the issue of abuse of children, and for further discussion to take place. [[Abg. May. Stadler: This is about abuse, not abuse!]] Mr Stadler, we are quite prepared to hold this discussion, which you have also mentioned, not only with you, but in the sense of our children and young people! [[Abg. May. Stadler: Abuse is something else!]] And in the sense of the day-to-day application of children's rights, I believe that further action will have to be taken here too. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Yesterday you postponed it, in the judicial committee!]] In my opinion, the prerequisite is the commitment to children's rights. This is an important and correct decision, which at least four parties have taken here in the House to anchor these seven articles in the Constitution. This must be the basis for everything else we discuss here in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e12633	Next speaker: Mrs Kitzmüller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e12655	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Mr. State Secretary! High house! If we decide today to include children's rights in the federal constitution, this is a good and very important thing. In concrete terms, our Constitutional Spokesman has already set out our freedom to do so. I would like to take advantage of this opportunity and highlight the most central right – the right of children and human rights – in this debate, namely the right to life, ladies and gentlemen, as stated in Article 2 of the European Convention on Human Rights. Today, there is no doubt that fundamental rights are primarily addressed to the legislator. This also gives a very special meaning to fundamental rights, especially the principle of legality, as set out in Article 18 of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Germany, in that the legislator precisely determines the direction of protection, ladies and gentlemen, into which this right of fundamental rights is to go. There's a need for action. This need for action was clearly addressed to us a few days ago by the loathsome crime in Vorarlberg at the three-year-old Cain. The case “Luca” is also a case that is already very familiar and has been discussed and is at least so sad. There are also such cases in Upper Austria. Ladies and gentlemen, the government and the legislator have clearly failed in this matter. And this failure is supposed to give you sleepless nights, but it should also stimulate and move us to action. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Countless complaints, countless e-mails of distress and shock – and I can also say: anger – we have got to this case. And all these cases – case “Cain”, case “Luca” and so on – indicate that youth welfare, youth welfare providers are overwhelmed in fulfilling their legal tasks, ladies and gentlemen! The case of Luca, which was known to the authorities and which also showed the failure or inability of the authorities, has clearly led the way. In the case of ‘Cain’, the authorities of the mother’s relatives have been alerted to the fact that there is a violent father, a violent companion, who is drug addicted and who is still employed to supervise the children there. Nothing's been done. To all the accusations that the head of youth welfare in Vorarlberg has been confronted, he said: “It is clear that the man was totally inappropriate to care for infants.” – Na “toll”! And what happened? Nothing happened! Nothing has been done in this case! The final knowledge of youth welfare is also very typical. It has been said: “We will do everything we can to help those concerned to cope with the event!” – A hoon, ladies and gentlemen! These lip confessions are not enough. There is a need for action. The obligation to display – which has already been mentioned – is also very important and should also be introduced and actually observed. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] One must continue in this history and involve the courts faster in the preliminary intervention measures, faster than now provided for in § 215 ABGB. It is also important to ensure that the judges involved in this matter are further trained. I would like to make the following request for practical life: [[Quoted print version removed]] In addition to this, I also believe that a lot of suffering and a lot of disaster could be avoided if the common care was decided, as we have already called for in many proposals. Finally, I insist: This is not a day of joy and not a day to introduce the sunny children's rights! Rather, it is a day when we have to crush the sleeves to finally help our children to their right.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e12764	The motion for a resolution tabled is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e12847	Next speaker: Mrs Windbüchler-Sushill. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e12869	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear visitors to the gallery! “All men are born free and equal in dignity and rights.” All people! This sentence of the Declaration of Human Rights – and I am sure of that! – doesn't give anyone any doubt. The right to life, the prohibition of torture, the prohibition of slavery: All of this is certainly beyond doubt in this House! Nevertheless, precisely these rights and these prohibitions are enshrined in the Austrian Constitution by the European Convention on Human Rights. This was a real and important measure to bring the entire European Convention on Human Rights into the constitutional ranks. Now we're talking about the Child Law Convention. The Convention on Children's Rights has a goal, worldwide – no question! – to put children and young people at the centre of political decisions, to raise the child's well-being and the well-being of young people and to show and to say what laws in the state contradict the child's well-being and which laws do not contradict the child's well-being. [[Abg. Lueger: No! To create minimum standards!]] This implementation of the entire Convention on Children's Rights as a form of active child and youth policy can no longer guarantee Austria with this present draft, which you will all decide apart from the Greens and which you will agree to. The repetitions precisely from the SPÖ and the ÖVP that we do not need all children's rights, that we actually only raise the essential children's rights in the constitutional rank, that the issue of feasibility is not solved at all, so these repetitions here from the speaker's desk or medial or also in the committee do not make the situation better for children and young people in Austria. [[Abg. Lueger: We don't need them double!]] I emphasize: They don't make them better! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The right to equal treatment, i.e. the prohibition of discrimination, the right to the highest attainable level of health, the right to social security and adequate standard of living, protection and adequate assistance for minor refugees are enshrined in the UN Convention on Children's Rights. What does Austria do? – As the Secretary of State said, we take out only essential articles. And that's where I'm asking: Why are these articles which I have just presented not essential, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen? What is not essential about this right to social security and adequate standard of living? More than 250 000 children and young people in Austria are vulnerable or manifestly poor. What is not essential about taking away this retention of law and actually anchoring this law and article? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We Greens see it as extremely essential to really protect children and young people in all situations of life, to take young people's interests seriously. The question of participation – i.e. the participation of children and young people in the legislative process, when it comes to laws, the interests of children and young people – is not solved here. Youths have not been part of this Convention on Children's Rights. Overall, ladies and gentlemen, the retention of the law – and this has to be said here – is from my point of view a kneeling of the SPÖ in front of the ÖVP. I am convinced that SPÖ did not wish to have a retention of law regarding the Convention on Children's Rights in this BVG. I really think so. And then the ÖVP comes and says: Only for the reason that we only agree with the retention of the law! – This is the family party of Austria? - Well, really not! They of the SPÖ make here a kneefall in front of the ÖVP, which is looking for the same and which is really not necessary. All rights of all children!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e12933	Next speaker: Mrs Haubner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e12955	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Mr. State Secretary! Values of Members and Colle Gen! The BZÖ today agrees with this legislative text. We agree because it is a matter of anchoring fundamental rights as a state objective because, after nearly 20 years of declarations of intent, after almost 20 years of discussions, we see this as a necessary and correct step. We agree because for us children are the most valuable good at all that you can possess. We agree because children have the right, on the one hand, to loving parents who care for them as best they can, but we also agree, because we politicians have a political mission to make family more manageable and viable. This has shown itself very negative in the past budget debate. And we agree because, as politicians, we have the task of ensuring protection and care and security through appropriate laws and by appropriate measures. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Today, this step is based essentially on the preparatory work at the Austrian Convention, where our clubman Herbert Scheibnersehr strongly contributed to the UN Convention on Children's Rights. However, as BZÖ, we also agree today because, in addition to this right to special protection and assistance, non-violent education, on the claim of both parents, the safeguarding of interests is also laid down in Article 1. And this, ladies and gentlemen, is what I have to say. Ladies and gentlemen, it is due to a BZÖ initiative. It is true for the first time in the history of Austria that the Constitution sets out generation justice. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We want to see, especially in the field of future investment, young people and children – in education, in research, in the family and in health – and where reforms are necessary – in the political system, in the social system, in the pension system – which is not due to the coming generations. This is where the political responsibilities are now fixed. We from the BZÖ stand for a policy that does not go at the expense of the children and the boys in the future. We don't want a policy that says today: Behind us the flood! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Today's child policy policy policy must and should also have an impact on the legislation on matter, otherwise these rights are pointless. I would particularly like to highlight the Youth Welfare Act here. Just this shocking occasion “Luca” a few years ago everyone was scared if I may say so, and they said: There must finally be uniform standards! There must be clear rules on how to deal with suspicions of child well-being! Ms. State Secretary, since 2008, there has been a draft in any drawer. I'm really asking They all, in the face of this inconceivable violent death of Cain in Vorarlberg, but also of many other children, from whom not the media insists that children be dealt with psychologically and physically: How long do we want to wait until we have a law here that finally creates some automation to take action in case of suspicion? How long do we want to wait, and what still has to be done to finally make an unrestricted advertising obligation? [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We brought this to the Committee on Justice yesterday; it was postponed again. How long do we have to wait for better networking between the various authorities, but also the hospitals in medical documentation? How long do we have to wait for stricter penalties at last? when children are tormented and death is the result? [[President Dr. Graf takes over the chairmanship.]] Mrs State Secretary, you could really show a profile here – and not push back and forth this law between the federal government and countries! We need more money for the children, we need more money for youth welfare, we need human and financial resources. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I also agree with what Carina Kerschbaumer writes about the “Small Newspaper” – she has already been quoted today – where you say, among other things: “In this protection, however, there is the greatest need for action. If not even after the death of a child a family minister breaks his head over system errors in youth offices, every law decision on children’s rights becomes a farce.” – Quote. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, even yesterday in the Committee on Justice, you refused to have a debate on these current issues, and that is incomprehensible to me. That's why I'm emphasizing: We clearly demand an alliance for our children, an alliance in which action is put, especially for those who have been overwhelmed, for those who live in unstable families, for those who have our very special protection. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e13064	Ms Mag. State Secretary has given his opinion on the matter. Remler to word reported. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e13085	Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen in the House! Today is a big day – a big day for the children! I think it is not right and not good that the meaning of this Constitutional Law on the Rights of Children, which equips the children with independent, fundamental rights, is spoken small or mispronounced. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] For the first time, this draft will allow the Constitutional Court to review the Austrian legal standards in order to ensure that the guarantees contained in the BVG on child rights, for example the child welfare as a central measure, are sufficiently anchored in the Austrian legal system. Here I cannot agree with Mrs Windbüchler-Soushill, if she thinks there is no added value – for that is exactly the added value! That's the added value compared to the state of the ist! We have succeeded in this law – and this has already been said by Mr Willi Molterer – to provide a clear sign of a child-friendly Austria. It will be an initiator for us to give the children even more space in the minds and also in the hearts of the people. I'm convinced of that – and that's a big concern for me too! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Article 1, according to which the child's well-being is a primary consideration, and Article 4, which requires the child's opinion to be taken into account, covers the key principles of the UN Convention on Children's Rights. If we only draw up the previous articles of the law, then the core of the Convention, namely the right to protection from violence and exploitation, the right to care for the adequate goods of our society and the right to participation, is guaranteed. However, a child-friendly society is also primarily a matter of attitude. It is necessary for us to be able to reach people with the idea underlying children's rights. From the beginning, children are competent personalities and carriers of independent rights. This is to accept and respect! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Let me focus briefly on the retention of the law of the BVG on children's rights and say: Such a reservation of law is both national and international standards. [[Abg. May. Stadler: (in the direction of Abg. Dr. Jarolim) Hannes!]] Article 7 of the proposed Constitutional Act corresponds to the retention of the law of Article 8(1). 2 of the Convention on Human Rights. The corresponding rights of children in the EU Charter of Fundamental Rights are also subject to the same rule of law. This also stressed constitutional expert Professor Grabenwarter in the Constitutional Committee. Weighing the fundamental rights of other persons must be possible and authorised. In fact, the fundamental rights in legal practice are only really viable by the retention of laws. The Convention on Children's Rights is therefore fully implemented in Austria at both a constitutional and a simple legal level. Today's decision will further strengthen the position of children and young people in society's perception. I would like to comment briefly on Mrs Haubner's position. Mrs Haubner, I absolutely agree with you. Cases like Cain's have also deeply shaken me and make me deeply affected. But I think it is first and foremost also a social task to protect our children from violence as much as possible. We need to raise people's awareness that it's better to look at it again than to look away. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Anzeigerpflicht!]] You're right, there's the draft of a new Federal Children's and Youth Aid Act. I appeal... – Mr Stadler, today's children's rights are in the foreground – and not your polemics! [[Abg. May. Stadler: The only... exceptions!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler:... don't even come there!]] [[Further calls.]] I call on the countries to agree to this draft because it contains the modern principles of risk-reconnaissance, the four-eye principle, aid planning, uniform standards, confidentiality and data protection. I'm going to work for it, and I'm going to look for the conversations. Discussions with the competent members of the national governments are already planned for Feber. Finally, I would like to say that I invite the representatives of all the parties to agree to this Federal Constitutional Act so that we can also give our children the importance that should be attributed to them in our society in the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e13213	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Korun. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e13234	Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear visitors to the gallery! All children's rights! – that is the principle of the Convention on Children’s Rights. That is why it should also be our principle in implementing the Convention on Children's Rights when we discuss it here in Parliament and when we take decisions on it. It has already been mentioned in the previous speeches: There are several shortcomings in children's rights, in practice there is also a need for improvement in several areas. I would like to go into one area and in my speech more than 115 000 citizens of our country lend my voice to those who have joined forces as part of the “Children do not belong to prison”. We all know that in October 2010 two eight-year-old girls were torn out of their beds by fully armed police in full Montur – two eight-year-old twin girls and a shy father. [[Abg. Head: A media production!]] This was not the first case that happened in this way: that children are arrested by armed police officers, are imprisoned, partly together with their parents, partly separated from their parents. The special thing about this so-called case was that a general public in Austria was able to learn about it for the first time because many cameras were there. [[Abg. Steibl: Organized by you!]] So it became clear and visible what has been common practice for years. [[Abg. Steibl: Organized by the Caritas, organized by you!]] Unfortunately, this has been common practice for years, Mrs Colleague, and we should not react cynically with calls when it comes to children's rights, whose principle, as I said, is All children's rights – logically, above all the right to freedom! [[Abg. Steibl: This is not cynical!]] [[Congratulation with the Greens]] What a general public in our country has not experienced in the so-called “Komani” case with the two eight-year-old twins is that the children were not only separated from their mother, who was in the hospital and were treated, but were separated from their father in the pushed prison. They were housed separately in different rooms. The father was not allowed to see the children for a long time, nor was he allowed to be present during the investigations of his two eight - year - old daughters. These are partly the states in our country in 2010, and these states will not change with today's decision, which unfortunately stands in this form, because this is about a mutilated Convention on Children's Rights, here is the opposite of the fundamental principle of the Convention on Children's Rights: not all rights, but only with restrictions! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hagen]] I would like to quote Caritas President Michael Landau. As an expert in the Committee on Petitions, he has repeatedly advised that children's rights should not be measured by two measures, not to create two classes of children's rights in the case of children's rights. I would like to remind you of Heinz Patzelt, his sign Secretary General of ‘Amnesty International Austria’, as to whether the initiators of the “Children do not belong to the prison” petition see in this draft an implementation of their concerns. Heinz Patzelt said – I quote: They say we implement children's rights, but only where we want it! [[Call the SPÖ: It's not in there!]] That is why we will not vote in favour of this proposal, because the principle “All Rights for All Children!” must not be violated! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e13344	The next item is Mrs Binder-Maier. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e13365	Mr President. Members of the Federal Government! Mrs Colleague, your situation was already unconstitutional in itself, and the implementation of the entire Convention on Children's Rights does not change anything at all, but the solution has to be found elsewhere and has already been found. – First of all, ladies and gentlemen. Secondly, I believe that we are taking an important and right step with this decision-making process today. The main elements of the Convention are incorporated into the Austrian Constitutional Law. I expressly thank you for the really tireless and very persistent use of Angela Lueger for the rights of children. Thank you very much, too, from this point of view! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The present application for children's rights is in line with human rights, in accordance with fundamental rights, rights that need to be demanded and implemented. Our existing legislation must now be reformed so that it is in conformity with today's decisions. As has already been mentioned, many parts of the Convention are part of Austrian legislation, part of Austrian case law. Overall, these provisions, these provisions for the protection of children, are designed to promote the development of children. I think it is also a symbol of putting children's rights at the centre of the public debate. I would also like to expressly say that it is natural for children to be under the protection of fundamental rights. That is also good, right and necessary. Some of the provisions are still to be fulfilled, and I would like to give you, Mr Haubner, of course right and appeal to the Secretary of State to become really active now in accordance – we know that, and that is what we need – with the individual country representatives in order to establish uniform provisions on the protection of children and the protection of young people. It is about uniform standards, it is about uniform criteria, and above all, I am giving many previous speakers a real network to protect children, which is very often helpless when violence prevails. This protection must be ensured for those children, and risks must be eliminated. Children have rights: Children have the right to protection, dignity, respect and giving. With today's decision-making, we are on the right track, and I am delighted about it.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e13415	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Jarmer. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e13436	Mr President. High house! Dear Lord State Secretary! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! On today's subject of the Convention on Children's Rights, I must honestly say that I wonder what Mrs Lueger said earlier: that all points are fulfilled and that there is also equal life. Equal rights means being treated equally, fully participating in all situations of life, that awareness raising on the subject of barrier-free communication, protection against sexual violence is also lived. Is that really the case in practice? Is education actually equal in practice? - No! I would like to give some examples here; equal treatment, what does it look like? – Children have no right to self-determined life, for example, there is no right to personal assistance for disabled children. They have no right to use sign language interpretation services. Imagine a child who is sexually abused. How could it ever go to a consulting center? – Not even the interpreting costs would be taken over for this purpose. That's not equal! Easy-reading versions do not exist mostly. What about accessibility in general, kindergarten, school building, universities? – The laws have been postponed. We are not in a state of equality because accessibility has been postponed. For example, communication with Braille or sign language is not equivalent. For over 220 years, we have not had the opportunity to enjoy in our own language, in sign language, teaching for deaf children. Teachers are not even obliged to learn sign language, let alone Braille. I want to know what you mean by equal rights! In the media we have hardly any broadcasts for children accessible. Injections: We have a single children's show, in which sign language is displayed with a child. Audio descriptions for children: What offer do we have? – Please explain to me, I don’t know what we have. Education: Are we here in a state that we can live fully including education? - We don't even have an inclusive schedule. They say that education is equal; that is simply not true! The mandatory ninth school year is not mandatory for disabled children. Integration excludes this. I know my colleague Franz-Joseph Huainigg has been fighting for years; we have not. Similarly, the Article 15a Agreements: Disabled children are excluded from kindergarten. After the UN Convention, which we have already decided, it is still such that we have not solved this problem. I don't know what this means by equal rights. Mr Stadler is not here now, but he has meant that the Greens always refer only to women's rights. And children are supposed to be a damage if they're disabled? . I would also like to point out once again that disabled children, if they are injured, have a better life than children who are no harm. The funding for these children, aids, conversion, personal assistance, interpreting costs and so on, that's still a problem, that doesn't exist – and that's not equal to my understanding. It is not what I understand from the Convention on Children's Rights that I refer only to a few points and to anchor the law. The UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities has been concluded by: as not implemented before – not clear to me. That's why I can't agree. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e13505	The next speaker was Mr Huainigg. The speaking time is set to 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e13527	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Mrs. State Secretary! High house! I expressly welcome the inclusion of children's rights in a federal law in the Constitution. This is a strengthening of existing laws and an addition where there are still gaps. I would like to refer to Article 6, which concerns the creation of equal access for disabled children in all areas of daily life. This is also an important supplement to Article 7 of the Federal Constitution, which, as a result, cannot be disadvantaged because of its disability. It is a task to further integration, inclusion. This concerns kindergarten, school, early promotion, as well as common playgrounds for disabled and unimpeded children, all areas of life, as my colleague Helene Jarmer said earlier. However, I believe that discrimination and inequality take place at the time of the birth of disabled children. I am referring to the OGH judgments, which, although they were always granted compensation for damages in the event of the unwanted birth of disabled children, have never been compensated for damage at the time of the birth of unwanted non-inhibited children. In disabled children, even maintenance payments were granted to the entire existence of life, that is, diet, education, clothing, all of that. This makes the whole life a damage, and this is a discrimination that is discussed! I expressly welcome the fact that Minister of Justice Claudia Bandion-Ortner presented a proposal for a law on compensation for damages, because the current situation is unbearable. There is crazy pressure on doctors and parents to remove the child from the disabled, if there is a slightest suspicion of a disability, so that no claim for compensation can be claimed. On the other hand, parents who want to get money must claim that they would not have brought their child into existence if they had known about the disability. That's unworthy! It needs support for parents of disabled children, but damage law is the wrong approach! It needs support outside this right in social law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e13569	The next speaker was Mr Walser. 4 minutes speaking time is set. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e13590	Mrs. State Secretary! Mr State Secretary! High house! The pleasure is that we all agree that we must anchor children's rights in the Constitution. Unfortunately, in what form this is to happen, we do not agree on that. The speakers of the Greens, I think, have demonstrated impressively how great the need is. I should like to point out that, of course, it is also clear to us that, with an anchorage, acceptance or decision-making of the UN Convention on Children's Rights, the problems have not yet been resolved. are. But it would be the symbolic act we, I think, urgently need in the present form. Let me address some of the arguments that have been heard here in the course of the debate, for example, that we would have agreed to a similar arrangement in the Convention. I should like to point out that, of course, we need to look at the overall package here, and the right to education was enshrined in the Convention. There are not only a few points to be made, we must remember the entire decision-making process that was negotiated at that time. We have heard several times today that everything has already been fully implemented, for example, Mr Wittmann has pointed out. – This is a strange argument! If we were so far – what prevents us from deciding on the UN Convention on Children's Rights here? That this is a convention signed by most states, decided and accepted by the UN, should give us thought. Only the USA and Somalia did not agree. Other few countries, including Austria, have made it subject to reservation. We are at the end of the list of those states that really take children's rights seriously. Unfortunately, this must be said by God at least in relation to the Constitution. I have also heard several times that, for example, the right to education in Austria is guaranteed. This does not dispute anyone from the principle. If Mr Molterer thinks that this has been guaranteed since 1964, you can of course see it that way. But that we, as a symbolic act, urgently need an initiative from Parliament, is certainly clear, because our education system still works according to the so-called Matthew principle: He who has will be given, and he who does not have will not be given. That's how it works in the Austrian school system, so I could bring you a whole series of examples. We will have an opportunity to do so in a special debate. I can also remind you of the embarrassment of what we decide here. They write and talk about what we've got all great in here. Everything is subject to Article 5. So this is a decision that can hardly be overcome in the face of embarrassment. We need a clear, comprehensible regulation, an international standard. What you are doing today – especially the colleagues from SPÖ and ÖVP – is a blamage for Austria. We can't do this! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e13639	The next speaker is Mrs Gartelgruber. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e13660	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I too am very pleased that we are finally raising children's rights in constitutional order. As my colleague Harald Stefan mentioned earlier, it was very important for us to ensure the family environment as a natural environment for our children. However, the demand to raise the entire UN Convention on Children's Rights in the Constitution has also not been welcomed by experts in the Committee and has also shown this as not a target. As some of my previous speakers have mentioned, including Mr Molterer, for example, the Article 20 of the Convention on Children's Rights was very controversial, because the Kafala is, I think, reluctant to include in our constitutional system. Es in no way makes sense to include in our legal system family legislation that originates from another culture. Similarly, I do not believe that it would have been necessary to include Article 38 in our legal system, because the problem of child soldiers is not God in Austria. These two examples alone clearly show how reluctant it would have been to include the entire UN Convention on Children's Rights in our Constitution. But I have to say that I am pleased that at least we have managed to do so – I am giving my previous speaker, Mr Huainigg, and Mr Jarmer, right, that was very, very important – to also raise the problem of disabled children in our country in Austria in a constitutional position. Because in this very case, In Austria, we still need to catch up very much. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But, ladies and gentlemen, I am missing an important point in this debate, and that is the protection of the unborn children. Article 22 of the General Civil Code, on the other hand, states that this right is very well established. According to this provision, both unborn and born children are entitled to legal protection from the date of conception. In the ABGB, the oldest law firm in the German legal system, which has proved itself to be successful for 200 years now, it is established that both, both the born and the unborn, have the same right. So if children are given constitutional protection, then this one is, I think, incomplete in that it is not granted to the unborn children. Children should also enjoy protection before birth. This principle of law, as I have already pointed out, is deeply anchored in the Austrian legal tradition. Therefore, it must be obvious that, when this principle is incorporated into the Constitution, these children are also considered. That is why I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to support this request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e13746	The amendment just tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e13804	Next speaker: Mr Markowitz. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e13825	Mr President. Dear Secretary of State! High house! It is always difficult to weigh an article of the Child Law Convention or a law against the other. On the one hand, I am very glad that after years of negotiations, something has finally happened in this direction. For me, this federal constitution law is almost just a start, because of course we also know that important content is missing. Health, leisure and child poverty are excluded. I therefore believe that we are starting a new beginning today when it comes to protecting children and anchoring certain rights. But I don't think it's like we're talking about children's rights for the last time today. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] When I look at the issue of child health – Mrs. Haubner has already mentioned this – I think it is not enough that we have only a mother-child pass. We need a mother-child-youth pass, because it can't be that the health tests are completed with the fifth year of life. We need an extension until the 14th century. Year of life, with an examination annual in which physical, linguistic or social shortcomings can be identified. Only then is counter-control possible. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Generational justice has already been addressed. We are very glad that this will be anchored here, because today's policy must not go at the expense of the next generation as regards overdebtedness et cetera. It is also welcome that disabled children are also granted rights. – Mrs State Secretary, I have listened very carefully to your remarks. The cases of Luca and Cain have already been mentioned today. None of us want such a thing to happen again. But this only happens when the laws are implemented and also executed. That is why I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Mrs State Secretary, I think you see this as well. That is why I am pleased that your Members' colleagues will vote in favour of our motion, because everything that has happened in recent days, months and years in child abuse must not happen anymore. That is why I am looking forward to broad support for our request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e13891	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e13956	Next speaker: Mr Pendl. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e13977	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! It is, as I think, really a milestone that, after a very, very long discussion – many in this hall know this long-standing discussion – today comes to an important and, I believe, proper conclusion in the interest of our children. Let me comment on one point or another. Although many and important points have probably already been raised, of course also repeated, but our Constitutional Spokesman has said in the Constitutional Committee: Call me a single point from this UN Convention on Children's Rights, which has not been implemented. No answer was given until the hour. We all know, ladies and gentlemen, that a UN convention is going to be held here, where it is precisely the case that there are very diplomatic formulations to be applied to developing countries, emerging countries to high levels of civilised countries – today a speaker has said – so it is always the smallest common denominator. Austria can be proud that regulations exist in many areas. As education is always addressed: Probably none of us sitting here could have imagined that we haven't managed this for decades. Of course, there is always a need for reform, and we do not need to discuss it here. But, ladies and gentlemen, in many discussions here in the House, it has always been said by all the political groups that not every matter should be included in the Constitution. It's always been. You only need to look at the speeches from the last few years, then you see exactly that this discussion has been held over and over again. I believe, Mr Stadler, in the Constitutional Committee, that this new law will, after some time, lead to a review of all the laws, including the national laws, and we will come to a higher level. Let me make one more comment on Mrs Haubner's comments, which the Committee on Justice has referred to. I can well remember the discussion about Luca's sad case, but this case now in Vorarlberg is the worst: It was displayed two months before. [[Abg. Hagen: The Youth Office has not gone! That's the point!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ursula Haubner.]] With an ad alone we do not solve the problem! On the occasion of Luca's sad fall, I invited the Justice Committee and also said from the speaker's desk that we are trying to reach an end to all the federal states. We should work together with the Federation to ensure that such a thing does not happen anymore. I think and assume that everyone sitting here doesn't want such a thing to happen. If we can prevent it, we must stop it. I can also invite you to do this work today, instead of always discussing higher penalties in the back, when it happened. We need measures so that something like this does not happen at all, because that is in the interest of the child. This new constitutional legislation is exclusively in the interests of children. But let's take care of the other too! On behalf of my group, I should like to invite you to do so.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e14039	The next speaker was Mrs Steibl. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e14060	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! In a few minutes we will adopt the Federal Constitutional Law on the Rights of Children, a clear legal and political signal in favour of children. The child's well-being is defined as a constitutional principle. What does this mean in practice? – We, the Parliament, will have to respect the requirements in the decision of future laws, as well as courts and authorities in the interpretation of the laws. Yes, children need safety. We give them this security. Children also have the right to non-violent education. However, the protection of vulnerable children is certain, which has been mentioned more often today, elsewhere. Cases such as the Lucas and Cains are preventable, but unfortunately they will not always be preventable. We need to look, we need to look at how practice works on the ground, what improvements are needed and what is needed so that youth offices can work even better. It will not be just the promotion and the money. I wish myself personally and say it loud and clear that I invite you to end the ping pong game between the federal government and countries. The countries should return to the table and negotiate with us, because children are our future. As in many other areas, I say here again and again that funding must also be provided. This is important because it concerns the future for all. However, I would like to add that it is also our task to strengthen families. It is sometimes the case in family policy that this is not heard because we are only talking about promotions and comparable things. We must strengthen mothers and fathers in their responsibilities, they are left alone of the often, and parenting, partnering is seen as something negative. – No, especially today, it is urgently necessary to protect children and support parents in their responsibilities. It is precisely this case that we, as legislators, are once again showing what responsibility we have in this regard.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e14097	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Steßl-Mühlbacher. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e14118	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Mr. State Secretary! High house! What is the answer from an eight-year-old to the question: What are children's rights? – Children's rights are what children need so they can be okay. The anchoring of children's rights in the Constitution is an infinite story that is ending today. It is a historic day that I am particularly pleased as the youngest Member of the House. I regret that the Green Group, as the only one in the House, cannot join this bill and cannot agree to it. They often accuse other political groups that they are working with Shina arguments, with half-truths, and that is what you are doing now. In your press releases, you are talking about a mutilated bill, and it is also not true that the content of the Child Law Convention is not in accordance with the content of Austrian constitutional law. We have the European Convention on Human Rights, we have the Austrian Constitution and we have simple legislation, and so is the children's law template that we will decide today, in accordance with the Constitution. It is the Greens who claim to be a party working with the content of the arguments that block a vote from party policy. [[Abg. Oillinger: “blocking”?]] I feel that this is unbelievable and, not least, very worrying. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: What does “block” mean? You'll still be allowed to be against it!]] Mrs Glawischnig-Piesczek, today is an important day because this law will be passed. Of course, you can't rest on any laurels. It is important that we in Austria have a uniform Youth Protection Act, a Single Youth Welfare Act. This is a call to the Secretary of State, who is no longer here: It must no longer be the case in 2011 that it depends on the place of residence of a youth who enjoys the protection he or she enjoys. We are all required to change this situation, because all young people, all children, are the same. With this Kinder-B-VG we take the first step. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e14170	Mr Prehauser has been mentioned as the last speaker to speak. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e14191	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Children's rights come into the Constitution, and this is late, as we have heard. I would like to say, out of complete conviction, that I would like to buy delays if they ultimately lead to the greatest possible consent in Parliament, because only then will it be ensured that the consequences of the law will be felt. The children's rights in the Constitution are one thing, the daily life is different. We always get to know that in families something goes wrong when the public becomes aware, and that is the point where the law enters the plan. But we also have to think about what to do in order to prevent the breakdown of such situations. Here we would have to do preventive work. We should consult together on how best to do this. We have heard a wide variety of explanations to this effect today. I am also glad that we decide today, even if it is not all that others here in Parliament imagine. I say quite frankly to you: It is better to set this up than to wait forever for something that does not happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e14225	No one is reporting on this. I therefore conclude the debate. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we are voting on the draft Constitutional Act on the Rights of Children in 1051 of the Supplements. Mr Fichtenbauer, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen have tabled an amendment. First of all, I will vote on the parts affected by this amendment and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, including title and receipt. Since this draft law is a federal constitutional law, I first put it within the meaning of § 82 para. 2 C 1 of the Rules of Procedure, the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. Mr Fichtenbauer, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, tabled an amendment which refers to Article 1 of the draft law. Whoever agrees to this, I ask for a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on Article 1 as amended by the Committee's report. I would ask those Members of the House who have spoken in favour of a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. I expressly note the two-thirds majority required by constitution. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to a positive sign. – This too is largely accepted. I expressly note the two-thirds majority required by constitution. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. - That's the majority. In turn, I expressly define the two-thirds majority required for constitutional purposes. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[It was in favour of SPÖ and ÖVP as well as of representatives of the FPÖ.]] We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Kitzmüller, ladies and gentlemen, on the necessary reform of youth welfare. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Ursula Haubner, colleague and colleagues on the Federal Children's and Youth Aid Act. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. We are now voting on the request of the Constitutional Committee to take note of its report 1052 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. [[13:51:46]] 4. Point Report of the Constitutional Committee on the Government Template (995 e.g._Other Organiser Protocol amending the Protocol on the transitional provisions annexed to the Treaty on European Union, to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and to the Treaty establishing the European Atomic Energy Community (1053, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e14360	We're now on the 4th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Hübner spoke. Speech time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e14387	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! What's the point? . The Lisbon Treaty will increase the number of MEPs by 14 to 751, and the protocol we are now debating will temporarily increase the number of MEPs by 18 because the four Members who have to leave in order to put the new Members in place cannot or do not want to relinquish their mandates. The reason for the current problem is that the Lisbon Treaty entered into force only after the last election to the European Parliament, and therefore the current occupation has still taken place after the old legal situation. Now you could say it's good, because Austria gets two more seats. Even better is: Of the two seats, one would be to the colleague Stadler. However, it has been declared in front of ongoing cameras, I have seen, right after the last EU election that it will not accept this seat, since it will not enter the European Parliament from the graces of the Lisbon Treaty. If Mr Stadler has not changed his opinion, what I do not accept from him and from his clear lines, then Mr Freunschlag will be bringing Mr Jörg Freunschlag to the European Parliament. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Will Freunschlag give up?]] – We will see if Mr Freunschlag does not give up. And then we'll see who follows Mr Freunschlag. [[Further calls to the BZÖ.]] Obviously, yes. So we could be very satisfied with that. Mr Freunschlag is a well-deserved and experienced politician, a member of our Carinthian partner organisation and would best protect Austria's interests. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Earn right! He's earned a lot!]] Despite these qualifications of Mr Freunschlag and despite the strengthening of two Austrian Members, we expect that the efficiency of the European Parliament, its decision-making capacity, decision-making and the quality of its decisions will not be greatly improved. So let's look at what the whole thing means: What do 18 additional Members mean in two and a half to three years, depending on how long it will take for the change to take place? Only the salary costs of a European Member, i.e. the Member himself, his on average four employees – usually two lawyers, two secretaries – are his compensations and travel expenses totalled approximately €500 000 a year. 18 MEPs therefore mean €9 million a year; the whole time two or three, as you want, somewhere between €18 and €27 million. And this is still without the cost of additional jobs that need to be created for these Members. Now, of course, one can say, if I think in the categories of the colleague Plassnik, for which there are no 15 billion € – popular voting is ridiculous –: What are €28 million for people of our size or for an organisation of the importance of the EU? I could say that – but we do not say that! We think this is a shield-citizen's stroke. It is not possible to make a decision in this way or in that way, to opt for foreign money, namely the money of the EU contributors, the most expensive solution and give 18 Members to it. This is not in the interests of our voters, that is not in the interests of the Austrian people, nor is it in the interest of the voters and supporters of the other political parties. That is why we are calling for a clear no on this proposal, just as we ourselves are going to express it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e14455	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Muttons. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e14477	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, we can always see it from the money side, Mr Hübner, but there are other points of view. If you look at the Treaty of Lisbon, you know that there have been changes since this Treaty came into force. For example, national parliaments have been given more sayful rights, and since the entry into force of this Treaty of Lisbon, the European Parliament has been an equal legislator in the main areas of activity of the EU. This means that directly elected by the people have the opportunity to influence European legislation. The European Parliament is crucial when it comes to strengthening democracy in the EU. This is precisely why it is so encouraging, ladies and gentlemen, that the European Parliament sees this as well and is constantly calling for greater proximity and transparency in the EU. The redeployment of the mandates we are going to approve today leads to a further strengthening of the European Parliament and is therefore also in our sense. We see this absolutely positively. By the way, Austria benefits from this change not only through two additional mandates, but in general, because there is also a democratic policy consideration behind this change. The small countries in Europe receive more mandates than they have so far and are thus strengthened in their position vis-à-vis the large states. [[Abg. Scheibner: France is not so small!]] This means that the interests of the citizens will be more heard. At this point I can also wish the new Members, if they are then, every good thing, whoever is the second Member. In any case, I wish our SPÖ candidate Josef Weidenholzer every good thing, which, through his experience as President of People's Aid, will certainly be able to enrich the European Parliament very much and will strongly push for the realization of a social Europe. I'm sure of that. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e14513	Next speaker: Mr Bartenstein. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e14535	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! FPÖ is opposed to this proposal for a law. So far, so bad! We know this when Europe, only when the Treaty of Lisbon is on the agenda. So nothing new could be said. However, Mr Hübner, I think that your argument with the costs is dangerous. If democratic practices, democratic institutions are assessed according to their costs, what do you say about the necessary conversion, the general renewal of this House in view of the costs arising in three-digit million? [[Abg. Neubauer: Too expensive!]] What are we doing? Do we then also consider the existence of this country's Parliament to be the cost to this Parliament? That's where we're absolutely on slippery. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! It is not small to estimate that Austria will send 19 instead of 17 MEPs, which means a plus of 10 percent. This is already a little worth in the sense of political weighting in a European Parliament, as Mrs Muttonen has rightly said, which means, among other things, the Treaty of Lisbon. Let's go, let's go, and we'll be there. Furthermore, we should also be grateful to the large European Member States for their understanding of the small ones. We know the code that applies to Germany. It is currently 99 Members of Parliament. Small Austria – a tenth of Germany’s population, otherwise we’re much, much bigger – now brings 19 Members, that’s a fifth, on the scale, and that’s a clearly disproportionate representation. So the little ones in Europe already have a lot more to talk about. This is reflected in the Commission's occupation. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, a pitfall not only on the brink will be the occupation not of the mandate by Social Democracy but the occupation of the second mandate. Let's see if Mr Stadler stands for his word. You're verbal. Now we'll see if this huge word you keep leading here is also sustainable. Whether Stadler or Freunschlag, we'll see who's going to Brussels. The most recent experience with your group – not with you personally – is rather those that make me feel that you are going to go. Think of your colleague Grosz, who said that if the election goes out, then I'm gone, put back all the mandates. The election went out like that, and he's still there.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e14577	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Van der Bellen. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e14599	Mr President. The history has already been discussed why this increase in the mandates is due to occur. But why, Mr Hübner, such a bagatelle, if you want to do so – it is about 15 additional mandates net – is absolutely inexplicable to me. It must be clear that such a distribution of mandates always presupposes a complicated negotiation process. And in this case, as Mr Bartenstein has already mentioned, the small and the smallest countries of the European Union are clearly overrepresented in terms of population, and the large countries have fewer mandates in the European Parliament. So I think that this is a very reasonable compromise, which has been found here. Perhaps at this point a word on the European Parliament itself. It works as far as I can judge it, quite different from that. It is extremely self-confidence and increasingly self-confidence towards the European Commission and the Councils and the European Council, and it is working very much cross-group and, above all, naturally across borders. So in that respect, it is of limited importance, I would say almost how many Members of this House then have a single country, because in voting behaviour it is not usually going to countries, but most likely to be mixed by political groups, but also by far. This is contrary to Parliament in Vienna, where we almost always have government against opposition, regardless of the unanimous or those where parts of the opposition go with the government and not others. But they have a completely different attitude to their work than we do here. This is really a kind of working parliament, with the corresponding disadvantages, as for example, that our Members here in Austria are rarely seen, because they are either in Brussels or on travel or in Strasbourg, and they are simply not going out of time to see so many contacts and dates in Austria. To sum up, however, I believe it is a very good, very well-developed Parliament which is increasingly demonstrating its autonomy, its independence towards the other important institutions of the European Union. As far as the proposal is concerned today, the Greens will certainly agree with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e14638	The next speaker was Mr Scheibner. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e14659	Mr President. Mr Bartenstein, you have said that you will eagerly follow the decision of Mr Stadler, and then you have made a little bit of a slip on announcements that have not been followed. Mr Bartenstein, you should know that policy sometimes has to do with the fact that, if the situation changes, political mandates decide differently and political strategies are different. Mr Bartenstein, I look at Mr Schüssel. He announced that he was a third party to the opposition in 1999, and that you would have joined the opposition. We were all very happy that there was then a government where the third party had put the Chancellor, which brought good seven years with you as the Federal Minister and with us in the government for Austria. Mr Bartenstein, I have not heard so far that you have criticized this opinion of your former Chancellor, but I understand that if Mr Stadler goes to Brussels, he will be very missing to all of us – and I believe we are here in Parliament. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Intervocations at SPÖ and FPÖ.]] But I tell you, he will then also mix up Brussels properly. And that is certainly nothing bad and absolutely necessary. Mr Hübner, you are now voting against this proposal, which I do not fully understand, because you have often rightly criticized Austria as underrepresented in the European Union. I already understand that the Lisbon Treaty can be very critical, but this one point is certainly without disadvantage for Austria, but it is beneficial. And you even hope that my colleague will be able to join Parliament. So it would even be a double advantage for your group. Nevertheless, vote You do not reflect this template. By the way, also interesting: You would wish that Mr Freunschlag, who was a candidate on a BZÖ list, should now be included as FPÖ mandaters on this list in Strasbourg. In 2005 you qualified similar but not comparable activities as a robbery and break of the electoral promise. So here, too, you can see: The location determines the position. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] For us, my Ladies and gentlemen, one thing has to be criticized, and this shows a little bit of the process in the European Union. There was an election to the European Parliament after an old mode by which the mandates were divided. Then there is a Treaty of Lisbon which should reorganise the structures. Many years in Europe have gone by to waste a lot of time talking about structures rather than discussing the content of Europe. And now we need two years, if not more, to implement this decision-making of the Lisbon Treaty into a relatively easy-to-solve matter. The It is only because it is said that one cannot do to Germany that one recognizes mandates. This could have been the case in the Lisbon Treaty. The fact that it takes so long to implement this, and that it does not correspond to the will of voters – newly organized structures under the Lisbon Treaty – is also a bit symptomatic for the European Union. Unfortunately, this is apparently not to be dealt with and not to fix it. But of course we agree with this proposal because it brings an advantage to Austria and we repeatedly demand that, with all the need to think Europeanly, we should also look at the interests of our own country in particular.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e14729	Mr Ostermayer spoke on a point of view. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e14750	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! It has already been said by the honourable Member, Mr Muttonen, Mr Bartenstein, Mr Van der Bellen. Two comments: Mr Klubobmann Scheibner said that this could have been resolved in the Lisbon Treaty. He'd have one. January 2009 will enter into force. They did not know that the entry into force was actually in December and that the elections were in favour. But I wanted to make another comment, namely the FPÖ, which has already voted against in the Constitutional Committee. I find it quite surprising for a party that always, we say, attaches patriotism to the breast, that it is then, when it comes to representing Austria internationally, in the case in the European Union, always voting against it. We also discussed the question of costs in a different context. Now comes again the argument: Democracy costs. Yes, democracy costs. The Lisbon Treaty has provided for this extension, and I think that if we have the opportunity to be more representative in an international body, in the case of the European Parliament, then we should use it in the interests of Austria and not oppose it. Nevertheless, I am glad that there has been such a broad majority in the Committee, and I thank you in advance, even if this is the case in the plenary session of the National Council. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e14787	Next speaker: Mr Donabauer. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e14809	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! As always the relationship or political relationship between BZÖ and FPÖ – they are soon different every day – I understand that FPÖ says: If the Stadler comes, we'll vote against it, but if the fragrant came, we'd be in favour of it anyway. Guys, do it yourself! Just think of Austria in this decision! That's crucial. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Point two: There are several parties in this House who always, if they are not at the clientship themselves, charge the costs to others, but are Even at the clientship, costs do not matter. See – you can of course paint this yourself – Carinthia, for example! We were pleased that Mr Scheibner said here that the European Union is beneficial. Yes, it is! I think it is an essential part of our development since 1995. And the special thing: We can fully agree there. We had been occupied by Commissioners from the beginning, we are represented in Parliament, and if we decide today on this protocol of amendment, it is actually the case that we are increasing from 17 to 19 mandates. This means that all Member States are represented accordingly. The special feature of the Lisbon Treaty is that it was only when the Constitutional Treaty did not come into effect. I think it is essential that the small states are better informed and have better representation than before. This is, among other things, a great merit of the Chancellor Dr. Schüssel, who has contributed enormously to the fact that the small states too can participate in the same way. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] And with regard to the rejection of the mandate, I would just like to ask those who demand this: Would you, if you were elected mandater, as is the case with the Germans, ever be entitled to waive a mandate? - Never! That is why I think that this amending protocol with the new number 754 is correct, which is, of course, only transitionally established. And I hope that our representatives there always think of their task, namely that they have Austria to represent.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e14869	As the last speaker on this item on the agenda, Mr Magistrate. Stadler to speak. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e14890	Mr President. High house! The mystery is quickly clarified. I do not hide, Mr Bartenstein, that I would like to remain in the National Council for private and professional reasons, but also for political reasons, because I feel at home in the National Council and do not hesitate to do so. But believe me, I certainly don't do one, and I've never done that in my political life: that I betray the will of my voters. The voters who voted for me at the last EU election, June 2009, certainly did not vote for Mr Mölzer, certainly did not vote for a party led by Heinz-Christian Strache, but deliberately elected another party. And I feel committed to this voter's will. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] So if my retort now believes with Mr Scheuch, he can trust this mandate that I have achieved because voters have given me a reasonable degree of confidence if they believe that they have this mandate... [[Abg. Head: To a reasonable extent?]] Col. Head, they're voters! We respect the electorate's will. They are voters who have, at least to this extent, voted differently than Mr Freunschlag would now deal with this task with his political behaviour. And that's why I won't do that. And believe me a little more, Mr Donabauer: I have already exercised some political function, where at the beginning it was said: So, now he's finally gone! I can still remember exactly the hohnic comments when I became a popular lawyer. Well, all of them repented at once! Believe me, I am able to get out of a political mission, which I take over, the optimal – also in the interest of the country. And everyone who knows me knows that I will also be a voice for Austria outside, now not only for a particular party, but for Austria, in order to get the optimal for Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e14938	No one is reporting on this. I therefore conclude the debate. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We are now voting on the request of the Constitutional Committee to give approval to the conclusion of the State Treaty in 995 of the Supplements. In view of the fact that the present State Treaty amends the contractual foundations of the European Union, I first put it in line with the nature. Paragraph 50 4 Federal Constitutional Act defines the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. I now ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of the conclusion of the present State Treaty to give approval to a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. I expressly note the two-thirds majority required by constitution. Finally, we shall proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution within the meaning of the Rules of Procedure. Paragraph 49 2 of the Federal Constitutional Act that the Bulgarian, Danish, English, Estonian, Finnish, French, Greek, Irish, Italian, Latvian, Lithuanian, Maltese, Polish, Portuguese, Romanian, Swedish, Slovak, Slovenian, Spanish, Czech and Hungarian language versions of this State Treaty are to be made known as a public consultation in the Federal Ministry of European and International Affairs. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. [[14:17:11]] 5. Point Report of the Justice Committee on the Government Template (1028, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law on Consumer Protection in the case of part-time use and user-privileged contracts (Part-time Use Act 2011 – TNG 2011) (1056 D.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e14996	We're now on the 5th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Mag. Mag. has spoken. Hakl. Fixed speaking time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e15024	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! We are now implementing the last European Union Timesharing Directive. Those who belong to Mr Maier in the Committee on Justice or who have dealt with matters more closely know that in particular in Spain, Italy and there also in Austria Some cases have led to strict consumer and consumer protection in the field of Timesharing models in Europe. Indeed, in the Canary Islands and elsewhere, where criminal associations have been formed, the voluntary consumers of Timesharing models that did not offer an equivalent. The implementation of this Directive now allows for a uniform legal protection for all European citizens across Europe. The implementation in Austria was necessary in a newly codified version because new components have been added. This means that contracts for the participation of, for example, campers or ships have also been included. To sum up, this means that Austrians, Germans and Dutch, the main stakeholders, now also in the Canary Islands, and even if Spain does not implement the directive in due time, extensive legal protection in such contractual matters is experienced because the Directive is directly effective, favouring the consumer. Europe's law is directly beneficial to European citizens and protects consumers from being over-heared. In this sense, I am pleased that, even if in Austria all the items of the contract were already directly regulated in one way or another, we now find a single European law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e15066	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Mulder. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e15087	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! However, the decision to implement this Directive, which relates to certain aspects of the matter, significantly improves consumer protection and adapts it to current developments. This Directive will be amended by 23. It is therefore transposed into national law on February of this year. As of this date, the new contracts concluded are also subject to this law. For Austria, this Directive is essential, since it covers a significantly extended scope of application – contrary to the previous Directive, which only protected acquisitions with regard to certain aspects of the Treaties. That means, for example, there were moving objects that are now inside – like campers and all the other accommodation options that fall in there – not included. From the point of view of consumer protection, the extension of the time range is of particular importance. So far, the rights have only been valid for a minimum period of three years. In the future, rights of use will also fall within the scope if the duration of such a contract is only one year, and other contracts are included in the regulatory system, such as resale or exchange contracts. The focus is on two basic considerations, namely that the guidelines should be fully integrated into our legal system and that, although the system is very complex, they should be adopted very easily and manageably. I would like to stress that there has been no alternative – and this has already been said by Mr Hakl. We had to make a new law. The old could not be expanded with a novel, as many new provisions are now included. This Directive is relevant to Austrian citizens, but it is particularly important how the two EU Member States Spain and Greece implement this full harmonisation. However, the main problem is those countries – and there is Mr Maier's expert, he will certainly still carry it out – which are not in the EU. It would certainly be useful to conclude bilateral international agreements with these countries in order to ensure consumer protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e15130	The next speaker was Mr Mag. Steinhauser. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e15151	Ladies and gentlemen! The term part-use law sounds bulky. In fact, the Part-Use Act makes significant progress for consumers. But above all, because it is based on a directive of the European Union, it shows that, contrary to all prejudices, there are not only things that help any powerful lobbys, but also those that actually strengthen consumer rights. That's why this is a good thing. It is also a good thing, however, how this law has been implemented. Mr President, you once said in a television debate that I should not only criticize you, but also praise you. Today, there is the possibility because it has not been possible to use directives to levelle at national level. This has not happened, but it has been well implemented, the Austrian protection standards have been maintained. You can only be praised for that. My hope is that maybe through my praise you will get a little bit of a taste and implement some initiative so that I can continue to praise you. I recommend the green requests for reading. You'll get suggestions on what else you can do to get more green praise. Look Turn to our requests for reform of § 278a or the important debate on reforming the position of the prosecutor – the word "judgment law". In the reform of family law, for example, there would be much to do with the right of name, and there would be much to do in the private bankruptcy – we have already discussed it – there would be much to do. So there is a lot of opportunities for Mrs Minister for Justice to pick up praise from the Green Group. Perhaps you will come to terms with the taste and want to present yourself as a Minister for Reform in the future – then there is praise, and I believe that the public presentation would be more successful in its future. In principle, it is not my job to make recommendations to you, but I say and guarantee you: It never hurts to leaf and study in green applications. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Back to the law: It has already been said by my two previous speakers where the concrete improvements lie, namely in the extension to additional types of contract and to additional objects – not only real estate, but also campers, residential weights, so to speak, all the possibilities to spend his vacation. But I have a question to ask you – we agree, no question, there is only one question. Point that I noticed where there was criticism in the opinions that the directive might not have been fully implemented. What if someone withdraws from a contract? – Then, certain charges that apply to public authorities, such as contract setting fees, are not refunded. In other words, there would be no free withdrawal, according to the current legal situation. That is why we think that is relevant, because the old directive has very probably provided for exceptions to that. Therefore, it was also safe in the old part-use law that there was no full refund in this case. This is different now because the directive no longer provides for this possibility. I'd like to ask you how you see this. Do you believe that your proposal for a law in this area is still fully in line with the directive? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e15211	The next speaker was Mr Scheibner. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e15233	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Originally, it was a very interesting project, this Timesharing, so that people who can't afford villas or holiday homes also buy these objects together with others and then share their use with each other during the holiday period. Unfortunately, this idea, like some other good idea, has also come into the traps of cheaters and speculators and in the end the consumer had to deal with the damage himself. That is why this EU directive is correct and important. It has also taken several years – for these models have been on the market for many years – until the European Union has adopted this directive. It did not take a little time for us to put these in a law here in Austria – actually on the last extremity, because the deadline for national implementation runs out in mid-February. We have also discussed this in the Committee and you have said that it is not unattractive that the Ministry has had so many other legislative documents to deal with, that this implementation has therefore taken a little longer. Don't worry about it! Criticism is always elsewhere. This implementation here and today has been well achieved, is important and necessary, and of course we agree!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e15263	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Donnerbauer. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e15284	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It has already been said a lot about this part-time use law. I believe that what would be to be added is that it is a matter which not only affects or affects consumers – even though it is mainly in Austria – people who use such opportunities of shared holiday homes, but also that this model – I do not know whether it is in Austria to a greater extent – would be possible to finance holiday destinations here in Austria. I believe that this law has created a good guarantee, a clear legal basis to develop such models. So in that respect, it might also be a new idea for the development of holiday destinations in Austria – because, I believe, it is also clear that there is nothing to think about, but a good legal opportunity for several people to pool their resources and use them for funding. I am also pleased that all the political groups have expressed praise for this implementation, including Mr Steinhauser, who has acknowledged the activity of the Federal Minister and the judicial body. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Steinhauser.]] I think you can also extend this to the past. When we look at the variety of materials, novels and laws that were dealt with last year and that were done by common accord, I think, a good labour penalty has already been negotiated in 2010 and I am confident that this will continue in 2011. Mr Steinhauser, the harmonious line and the commonness are pleased, so if it is to go more constructively into 2011. I have the impression that your group needs to convince them a little more, but the applause for your speech was still rather poor – but we will certainly still do so together. This is how I look forward to the work and the necessary innovations that we can work together in the next few months and then decide to do so with confidence. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e15327	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Jarolim. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e15348	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I can support Mr Donnerbauer's statement. I think it is very positive what we are talking about, namely full harmonisation. This is a very clear improvement in consumer protection – and uniformly in Europe. We currently have, and it is my hope that we will continue to discuss cold calling in the focus. Especially in recent times there have been reports in newspapers and other media that a large number of especially older people are being pulled over the table in the most impossible way, with the most impossible promises, with contracts abroad, when they are eating just somewhere above the Schnitzel border. – I believe that one must act against it, but it also shows that there are reasonable projects in Europe as a whole. There are also, apart from that, if I may say so, discussions in Europe about the further development of justice. There is a Magna Carta of Judges, which has recently been discussed in the Council of Europe, where Austria has also contributed and has pointed out that it is an important discussion to continue. I also believe that we should have the following discussion here in Austria: How best to develop justice? There is also the question of the prosecutors, the state attorney. I am very glad that we from Europe also have a harmonious, comprehensive definition of two different models that are now under discussion for us. All in all, we have to say that there are very many interesting discussions in Europe at the moment, and we should participate as intensively as possible in these discussions. take and open us. I look forward to further discussions. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e15396	The next speaker was Mr Fazekas. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e15418	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! My previous speakers have already carried out in detail, where the problems lie and how difficult it is for people who believed that they had chosen a positive model and then could not get out of these treaties for almost eternal times. It is seen that business models are constantly developing into fraudulent activities. Who says no, if you are in good mood comfortably on the beach and someone offers you not only to rent the apartment in which you live, but perhaps to participate in it immediately. Then one approaches, has no way of relinquishing the contract and comes a little later on that it was actually not a good business but a business in which one binds for a very long time. That is to say, it is a fundamental necessity to regulate this very intensively. Of course, this always takes a long time: We know that these business models are not only available since yesterday, but they have often been many, many years ago and have led to many disadvantages for people, especially financial disadvantages. It is therefore also very positive that this regulation is being implemented. This is a sign – and this has already been mentioned today – by the European Commission, which has repeatedly stressed that it also wants to be more active in terms of consumer protection, so that this is really an active matter. There will certainly be many other areas that need to be regulated in a similar way. Some have already been regulated, think of the classic advertising journeys, where people have been promised all kinds of things, and they have been bound up to buy, which have finally turned out to be nonsense. That is, essentially, this is an excellent legal standard that is implemented directly, which helps people who help all who also help to make those who sell such products somehow get on the right path. But, what my previous speakers also said, I believe that there may still be some kind of change in common practice. This will show up, but first of all it's an excellent law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e15455	For a statement, Mrs. Federal Minister Mag. Bandion-Ortner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e15476	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Do you love travel discount clubs, exchange pools, long-term holiday products? Then you will be better protected in the future, with a right of withdrawal within 14 days without giving any reasons or, for example, through information obligations. It is also important that protection now refers to all accommodation, including ships or residential weights. Yes, the right is adapted to the current needs. One thing to mention is: This is the first case of fully harmonised consumer protection in the European Union. However, I would just like to warn against the fact that in the future, through full harmonisation, our standard will fall – that is, I will definitely prevent that from happening. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e15512	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Steßl-Mühlbacher. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e15533	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! I too welcome this law. It is important that we protect consumers, especially in cross-border Timesharing contracts, and these are such contracts. The consumer, the consumer, must be able to ensure that the Timesharing Treaty, which he or she concludes, follows the same provisions – whether it is in Germany, France or in other EU Member States. The scope has been extended, but it is also important – for Austria has a tradition in this area – that consumer protection is not undermined by harmonisation. That is why I conclude: It is to be welcomed and we shall therefore vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e15560	As the last speaker on this item on the agenda, Mr Magistrate. Mayer to speak. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e15582	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, Mr Scheibner, the Timesharing project was an interesting project in the nineties – and it was particularly interesting for the fraudsters. I am still aware of such cases, in Austria as well as in other countries, for example Spain, where holidaymakers have concluded Timesharing contracts and after a short period of time the builder, after payment of the requested amount, went into bankruptcy. Thousands of Europeans have lost millions in Spain, and it was therefore necessary to create a Timesharing directive in Europe that should prevent these galeries. However, there is a problem: Not all countries have implemented this Timesharing Directive accordingly, most of them delayed, and important legal protection standards have not been complied with. There was a constant problem that holidaymakers – especially German, English, Dutch and Austrian – had been caught, a price was promised to them, and as a result, mostly under the influence of alcohol, such contracts have also been concluded. Now I say what I have already said in the Committee on Justice: The main problem is and remains Spain, Mrs. Federal Minister. There are now thousands of procedures that have not been completed by the judicial system, and it is important to ensure that the new directive, Mrs Federal Minister, is implemented accordingly in Spain. There are currently only two problems within the European Union: One country is Spain and the other Greece. We should look – also in the sense of the Austrians – at the fact that these legal protection standards of the European Union, these consumer rights, which are now also decided in Austria, are actually being respected. Finally, I would like to say that it is necessary to start negotiations with third countries, namely with the countries where Timesharing projects are offered, for example with Tunisia, Turkey and other countries. We will adopt this law unanimously today. It's an excellent law. It will strengthen consumer rights in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e15624	No one is reporting on this. I therefore conclude the debate. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We shall vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 1056 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – That too is the unanimity. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[14:41:10]] Standing Subcommittee of the Committee of the Regions: Request according to § 32e para. 2 GOG
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e15670	I announce that at today's meeting a request from Members Dr. Moser, Zanger, Grosz, colleagues, pursuant to § 32e para. 2 Rules of Procedure have been introduced with the necessary number of signatures. Consequently, the Permanent Subcommittee of the Court of Auditors should be entrusted with the task of examining the conduct of the Federal Ministry of Transport, Innovation and Technology, ÖBB-Holding AG and the subordinate companies of the ÖBB Group and the Federal Ministry of Justice in respect of: (a) the preparation, implementation and processing of financial transactions by ÖBB-Holding and the subsidiary companies of the ÖBB Group with Deutsche Bank and other financial services providers involved, the opinions entrusted in connection with these transactions, the subsequent resolution of management contracts including the associated agreements (such as settlements) and the status of any related judicial proceedings; (b) the purchase of the Hungarian MÁV Cargo, the related advisory contracts and possible commission payments, the balance-sheet assessment in the period and the status of any related judicial proceedings; (c) procurement within the ÖBB group since 2000, in particular the procurement of mobile phones and the conclusion of telecom service contracts. [[14:43:36]] 6. Point Report of the Equal Treatment Committee on the Government Template (938 e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the equal treatment law, the law on the equal treatment commission and the equal treatment attorneyship, the law on the recruitment of the disabled and the Federal Disability Equality Act (1047 d.b.) 7. Point Report and request of the Equal Treatment Committee on the draft federal law amending the Federal Equal Treatment Act (1048 d.a.) 8. Point Report by the Committee on Equal Opportunities on amendment 606/A(E) by Mr Mag. Heidemarie Inlander, colleagues on comprehensible transparent income statistics (1049 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e15735	We now come to points 6 to 8 of the agenda, on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting on points 6 and 8. I am speaking to Mrs Silhavy, rapporteur, in order to make a print error correction on point 7. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e15759	Mr President. I will bring the following print error correction to the report and request of the Committee on Equal Treatment of 13. January 2011 in 1048 of the Supplements on the draft federal law amending the Federal Equal Treatment Act: In the title of the legislative text annexed to this report and application, the word “the Federal Equal Treatment Act” is missing before the word “that”. The title is therefore correct: ‘Bundesgesetz, with which the Federal Equal Treatment Act is amended’.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e15786	Thank you. – The first speaker to speak: Mrs Mag. Unspoiled. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e15808	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This is not a "milestone" in the legislation, as you mentioned today in your press conference, Mrs. Minister, Mr. Minister, but in our opinion it is a husch-fush action, a Marx-murksgeschichte – allow me to play this word – and this is supposed to be decided today for the benefit of women. A single detail, ladies and gentlemen, shows already very dramatically how absurd and grotesque the whole is: Thus, pay should be disclosed on the one hand – this serves to close the income scarcity between men and women – but at the same time those who talk openly about their income should be fined. So you want to fight pay differences by making salaries transparent, while at the same time criminalizing people when they talk openly about salaries. This is not only an absurdity, ladies and gentlemen, but also a pervert of every rule of law. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But the series follows: The Council of Ministers – in fact, it has already slipped through there or, we say, has been soaked through, so already in the Council of Ministers – was to be decided on a social policy project and quickly adopted in plenary before Christmas, but this contained enormous political explosives. At the beginning, the ÖVP was lost, and we also noted in the Committee that, in addition to this alleged improvement in income transparency, further rules outside the working world should have been decided which would have greatly restricted personal freedom and aimed at a completely identical one-man. In fact, one wanted to link a package with a novel to the equal treatment law, a unique anti-discrimination law in Europe, and only through the massive protests of the opposition and the warnings of renowned labour and social law experts, such as Professor Theodor Tomandl, who had warned not only of a attack on personal freedom, but also of the danger of being led to an authoritarian state, the ÖVP has awakened. In the last second, it was still tried to prevent the worst attacks on personal freedom and the most massive interventions in private life. What is now being put to the vote here is only a flicking work, a pitiful flicking work that has been doubled in the last second. The process of the government parties in this innovation was diletantic and we were overly opposed to opposition parties. In the Committee, both Ms Heinisch-Hosek and her colleague Ablinger made it clear from the SPÖ that this should only be a first step and that forthcoming innovations are still pending. The idea of a homogeneous social behaviour, a canon of political correctness, of forcing the politically correct one-man, is to be translated into further novels. Freedom for us, on the other hand, is considered the highest good. We're starting from the powerful citizen. We want a society that comes from above with as little state power as possible and without perverted virtue-terrorism. When it comes to the women's image of Mrs Heinisch-Hosek and also of Mrs Prammer, it is always the case that men and women should be completely equal, think, feel and work. The permanent child custody should take place outside the families, the children should be best accommodated immediately after birth in children's cribs, all day kindergartens, all day schools. You just don't want to accept that many women or most women want – the surveys also prove this – that their children are next to their profession, in which they naturally succeed want to work careers too, grow up in security and security. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is just as important to most women as a career and a good income. For most women living together in a family where fathers and mothers live their lives according to their own ideas and priorities together with their children and where you address the needs of family members, still a desirable form of society and form of life. Social models, as they were common in the former Eastern Bloc States, where children were delivered to Communist breeding sites immediately after birth, have failed and will continue to be condemned to failure. We liberals will do everything we can to promote and strengthen the family. We believe that conditions should be created – that is exactly what they belong to – in which women do not fall into the trap if they devote themselves to the children for some time in their life. This freedom of choice must be made possible by policy. We liberals reject this novel, as it reduces the interests of women exclusively to income and career.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e15917	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Worm. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e15938	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Congratulations on this law! This law is a milestone for Austrian women, it will lead to more income justice. Thank you very much, Mr Schittenhelm. We have managed to reduce the administrative penalty from €1500 to €360, even here in Parliament, which will help women. What happened to us at this lawmaking? – We are concerned and have been concerned that at last it is sensed what leads to these income injustices in this country. We know that, due to gender, women earn less by 18 percent that, when we look at the European ranking, we are far lower than in the lower third, also compared with other countries. For 30 years, we have now committed equal pay for equivalent work in the relevant laws. Many measures we have already taken, but they have not really taken. It has been made an educational offensive, women are better trained. But when we compare, it's still the way that women and men deserve a lot of different in the same industries. Therefore, we are convinced that this step will lead to more income transparency. I would also like to thank the social partners, who are a social partners, who have taken part in this. It must also be stressed that, after Sweden, Austria is the first country to incorporate this income transparency into legislation – and the social partners have participated. This is important because the economy needs to be involved, otherwise this will not help us. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We will then have the opportunity to compare what can be earned in individual sectors, where the different differentiations between male and female wages lie, whether it is in the classification, whether or not there may be any presumptions, whether in the case of training opportunities women are not be thought of as men, and so on and so on. All of this, we assume, contributes to this – even if the works councils can then look at the various income reports – which can be remedyed here. I am convinced, ladies and gentlemen, that we are on the right track. This will be shown when we look at the first reports and then we have the comparison when we discuss again next year. The situation will turn to the positive if there are information offensives when works councils, works councils go to the establishments and inform when information for the various workers is better all around. Just last week we had a lot of applications due to a call for proposals – we are re-occupied with the Land Women's Office – and women's ideas are very different. Women, also very well trained, do not know what they can demand for their work. An information offensive is therefore necessary. I am sure that, if at last there is talk about salaries – and this is not only about individualised salaries, but about the whole structure – who deserves how much, on average, in the individual sectors, movement is coming into the whole debate and something will change in our country. If the highest and best-kept secret, that is what is deserved, is ventilated a little, then we are on a good, right path. I am convinced that this is a milestone for women, and the income sheath will be reduced. The Federal Minister said it today in the press conference: The so-called Gender Gap is 18 percent. Our goal is zero, and we will achieve it.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e16002	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Schwentner. 6 minutes speaking time is set. Mrs. Colleague, in 5 minutes I have to interrupt because of the call of the urgents. So I'll set you up for five minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e16026	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Minister! I do not want to say anything more about the back-turned caprioles in the FPÖ. This becomes pretty slow so redundant that it's not even funny again, you can say. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mrs Minister, you said in the morning at a press conference that the income transparency model, as it is now in front of us, is an important part on the highway of equality. I would also like it to be, I just have the feeling that the wrong signals have been set up before and behind the part, namely, the wrong signals. I don't have the feeling that it's a milestone, it would have needed more than what's in front of us now. It may be a step forward, because I give you all the right and I am absolutely in favour of it, and I would have liked to support it, namely, in the sense that it contributes to the awareness that it is being discussed that it is a topic – it should be a topic – and that should be a topic – and that is good, but unfortunately the rest are so many steps backward that we cannot carry it in the form that is now available. We would have wanted to see the punishments come out until the end. They are now proud that it is only more than € 360, which threatens workers in They should be talking about income reports. I'd have been to get out of here because that's one of those false signals. A second false signal is that it is still not clear how to produce these reports. It is not clear whether there are special supplements or other supplements, premiums and other stories. This means that companies remain very free to produce income reports. The third is – unfortunately, as Mr Steinhauser will say even more about it – that the originally planned levelling up also got away from access to goods and services, out of negotiations with the ÖVP. I do not think this is good because Austria could have taken a pioneering position in that area, in exceptional cases. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] There was a real cow trade until the last time – Mr Unterlander pointed out that this was the case, and I am only right about it – in a way that we were agreed very late before the committee on amendments; I think it was a cow trade to the last burden of the workers. I don't think you can be proud of it. This has also shown the first issue immediately to the Committee, namely from the Chamber of Commerce, which regrets that the penalties are not even higher and that you have been so bold and have reduced them. For me, this was a very revealing signal of how the wind blows, and this shows how much the social partners have complained about it at the expense of the workers. I don't think that's good. If you had not always looked for Sweden, but for France, you could see that there has been a model there since 1983, which is even more than what we now have, where even the labour inspectorates had to be informed about it. And what did it bring? – It didn't do anything! Only every second company has produced income reports; they have not conducted negotiations to improve the situation of workers and to achieve equality in the enterprise. And what did they do now? – They have introduced sanctions, which are very high penalties. As of 2012, 1 percent of the company's gross pay will be in the room as a punishment, if the company does not produce the income report. There you could have looked and taken this as an example, not Sweden, because there are other and better models. I shall come to the request for amendment after the urgent procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e16102	Mrs Schwentner, can I take your last sentence in such a way that you will continue your speech after the urgent procedure? [[Abg. May. Schwentner: One minute, then I can submit the application!]] . Well, I shall now interrupt your speech and also interrupt the negotiation on points 6 to 8 of the agenda, so that the requested debate of a urgent question can take place at 3 p.m. in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. [[15:00:41]] Question by Mr Heinz-Christian Strache, Members of the Federal Minister for Defence and Sport concerning the planned abolition of general military obligation (7421/J)
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e16142	We come to the urgent debate on the written question 7421/J. As this has now been done to all the Members, there is a lack of reading by the author. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e16260	I declare Mr. Klubobmann Strache as the first questioner to justify the question, which according to § 93 para. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e16282	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! I quote: “For me, the obligation of military service is ground in stone.” [[Call the FPÖ: Here look!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] “There will be no end of military service with me as Minister of Defense.” Further: “The model of compulsory military service has proved its best for a small neutral state like Austria for decades.” [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] As well: “The obligation of military guarantees the constitutional fulfilment of the federal army – from the state defense to the protection of disasters, the use of assistance at the border to the peace missions in international crisis areas. The mix of professional soldiers, military soldiers and military officers is one of the strengths of our federal army and proves itself best in our range of tasks in Germany and abroad.” – Quotes. Mr. Minister of Defense, this is a quote from you. That's your opinion. [[Call the FPÖ: Unbelievable!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] That's what you've always given the best. Now – yesterday, yesterday, today – all the basic defense servants have received a brochure in which you confirm exactly what you are doing to the best of the land’s basic military servants. [[Call to the FPÖ: That's incredible!]] [[New calls to the FPÖ.]] You almost have the impression that you can't even remember your own statements, you don't even know what your left hand is doing right now, just like that is being done. [[President Mag. Prammer is taking over the presidency again.]] There is a mayor Häupl in Vienna, who had such fear and panic in the campaign to face a dramatic defeat – as he had suffered by losing the absolute majority – and then tried to somehow save something with this topic – or believed to save something – which he had gone into his pants in a terrible way. And because of this call you go here, get on it – and endanger the safety and neutrality of our home country Austria. It's just a terrible thing! Minister of Defense, Mr Darabos! It is immense if you believe that you can continue to act here in this area as you are currently doing. This is not portable, and we will not accept it either. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Here you go and make a 180-degree turn out of a SPÖ election note, because you think you could sell the Austrians for stupid. It just doesn't work. I tell you, this will go well for you and become a powerful piper, because the Austrians recognize the game. If there is an honest debate, a genuinely honest debate – we will lead it and inform the people in depth – then I am convinced that the majority of Austrians are very, very clear Yes says a military duty and a military service such as civil service or social service, or whatever you want to name it. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Because it is important and because only that is the guarantee to ensure the security of our country from terrorist attacks and also the disasters that have become necessary in the past in our country, for which we need up to 20 000 men. If we did not have them and would go to a professional force, as you have done in the last few days, then the use of disasters would no longer be possible, then it would collapse in itself. But I'll talk later. However, I can still present you with a better quote concerning you and the Federal Government. Name: In the government programme for the years 2008 to 2013, the entire Federal Government has made a clear commitment to military service. “And I assume that the ÖVP adheres to what has been agreed in the government programme,” said Darabos. Well, that's very interesting. So the ÖVP does not fail, but it is you, Mr Darabos, because you do not want to live up to what ÖVP and SPÖ have stoned in the government programme and simply do not want to adhere to the government's programme. It is up to you, Mr Darabos, to you personally and to the SPÖ that you are ready to break what you have written and anchored in the government programme. I can only say: There is nothing else you have expected, and we have already recorded this at the beginning of your accession as Minister: If you put someone like you in this office, it's like making a vegetarian a meat factory director. This cannot be reconciled, and it must fail! That can't work! That's like putting a confessing atheist at the top of the church. That can't work! Or if you make a non-swimmer the head of the Austrian lifeguard association. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] It's got to fail! We have from the beginning noted that this is condemned to failure with the occupation of the resort by you. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[New call to the SPÖ.]] I'll tell you: Your supposed election sugar, which you believe is something you can vote with – that will not happen because the population is not available for such hazards. [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] You'll be stuck in your neck. It is irresponsible to suddenly make a 180-degree turn out of a mood and thus embark on an experiment. We need an improved system in the federal army. That's what's been bothering you for years. We need, of course, an optimization, a slimming of the apparatus and a goal-leading training of the basic defenses who are not abused as a system holder, just as God was unfortunately the case in your time of office, where you were not willing to change something. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That's what I've done. We do not want a senseless training to take place, but a meaningful training is necessary, and in the past this has been done in the same way. We have been able to offer many professional fields to the federal army as training for our young people, who later could put them into occupations – whether that was the health service, the station assistant, the truck driver's license or many other areas where many young people have experienced training. Many young people – often those who did not find a job in the meantime – did not end up in unemployment, but saw it as a bridge for themselves, but also a service to the community. And that's where I tell you: One should not always ask what the country can do for us, but also what we can do for our country. This too is a very, very important basic setting, which many people live happily in Austria. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Darabos, I say with you, the bock was made a gardener. [[Call the SPÖ:Minister Darabos!]] We do not want to endanger security in the country. And we have new threats – not a question – and, of course, terrorism belongs to them. There are over a thousand objects that can be protected in Austria. According to all expert calculations, you know how much man you need. None of the variants presented by you will only satisfy the requirement to be able to protect these objects. If you think that the voluntary sector could also cover what you want to endanger now, namely by abolishing 13 000 civilians, then this is equally dangerous. You saved right there. It is precisely there that Mr Sozialminister Hundstorfer has set up the savings fund, so that today the civilians are getting less. And now, in your unbelief, you want to explain to the Austrians that you are willing to spend €1 300 per month for this area in the future?- Oh, my God! - That's all unbelievable! They also endanger social and health policies, and even the Red Cross, which is not close to the Freedom Party, says that the additional cost of at least € 200 to 300 million will be incurred. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That's all wrong with what you're giving to the best of arguments. Let's be honest. You will only make civil service possible – and also a social year that you are talking about – if you maintain the military duty and build a new system around the military obligation. We should discuss this. It is not the obligation to cancel military service, but the obligation to give military service and to define a military service in order to ensure that civil service is not at risk, so that social services are made possible, and therefore that there is also an impotence in social service and civil service. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The debate has to be held there. There are many dissertations of well-recognised personalities, in which it says: If your models – the abolition of military service – were to be implemented, then this would cost the state twice as much. So what's better then? Is there a double cost? . We are all the while talking about how we can optimize the system, how we can maintain security without causing additional costs. And you're risking security, and it's gonna cost twice as much in the end. This is even an absurd system that you propose to us with your seven cut ideas that you have presented to the public up to date. That is why it is so important to highlight this issue in detail today and to take you into account. They are enraged – obviously for ideological reasons – to enforce the abolition of military service. This is obviously a point you think is going into the history of Austria. Yes, you will go into history – as the worst defense minister in the Second Republic. It's all fixed. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You will certainly get a fixed place in the German army's annals. If you consider your glorious seven proposals for the abolition of military service, they are anything but glorious. These are really seven snap ideas, where you can talk about a Darabos doctrine: Cost a lot, but don't do anything. This is the result of your concept. The only thing the SPÖ defence policy has brought to the army up to now is three new weapons systems, the so-called Unguided Missiles, which you have created. After all, you have had a decisive “success”: When you became a minister, you negotiated with the Eurofighters. There you were quite “grandios”: Today we have a Ferrari with a VW engine at the price of a Bentley. That's the result. Today, the Eurofighter may fly around sintering money, armed with cameras, he may deter the arbitrary enemy. It's a "beautiful performance" that you've succeeded in, but the efficiency is zero. You can talk about friendly fire. It can be said that you are, in fact, a serious danger to Austria. They have become an insecurity minister in this country. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I am very glad that there are also courageous people in the SPÖ Group who today still allow themselves to think independently and to have an independent opinion, as Mr Prehauser, who, of course, says that the tradition of Bruno Kreisky is a good tradition. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I say quite frankly to you: The former Federal Chancellor Bruno Kreisky has left behind a lot of positive things in this country – also negative, but also a lot of positive, that is undoubtedly to be recognized. He was one of the really great politicians of the Second Republic. Bruno Kreisky was always a champion of a people's army, a military duty, for good reason. He said that is our mission to ensure our responsibility for the comprehensive national defence in Austria. He would turn in the grave today, on the occasion of his 100. Birthday, when he needs to see how his – I say: former – party is dealing with his heritage today. This is the terrifying one. There's nothing you need to stick to your chest. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Wheeler.]] That is also the reason why President Dr. Heinz Fischer, who knows very well about the decision, acts very carefully compared to the party leader of the SPÖ on this question and is also positioning himself differently, because there is also a historical experience about which you would need to know best: There has already been a professional force on their own people with weapons, and there have been dead people, as in Schattendorf. [[Inter-call at BZÖ.]] Yes, you should also light that, and this is also a historical argument why a military obligation and a military system are a regulatory system so that such misdevelopments can never happen again in history. [[Abg. Scheibner: Go, please!]] This too should be illuminated with all openness and honesty, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We by the Freedom Party are fully committed to the all-encompassing state defense of our home country Austria – apparently as the only party in this clarity, because we are committed to military service, to the current German army as a mixing system from the general military obligation, cadre presence elements, our military system and also to civil service. This is a good, proven and right system that you must certainly optimize, expand and deepen, but do not endanger. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is precisely about that we will work out this in the public debate, because we are, apparently, the only party to maintain Austria's neutrality very clearly. We do not want to end the task of Austrian neutrality and, in the end, perhaps in a military alliance like NATO. Because that's what I'm supposed to do. They also say to the public: All European countries that have agreed to or have already adopted the military obligation are NATO Member States. In these countries, where the military service has been completed, it is possible to do so because it is reported to another NATO partner and it comes to the aid of one if certain areas cannot be covered with a professional force. That's what we don't want. We don't want to give up our neutrality. We want to be able to protect and defend our neutrality – as is enshrined in the Constitution – and we want to be independent when it comes to disaster prevention. [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ]] We want our soldiers to be used here in Austria, and not like you, abroad, from Africa to Hindukush, where we have actually lost nothing. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That is exactly what it is, and that is exactly what it is that you have to highlight openly in the debate, which ideas some in this House have behind it. With the task of compulsory military service, the path leads straight to NATO. Some say it more openly and some just behind their hand in this House. We know that at the ÖVP and at the BZÖ, the defenders of NATO accession are sitting. That's an open secret. Mr Cap has also considered the possibility of speaking often. We reject such a development for our Austria. That's the difference that essentially distinguishes us from each other. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Petzner.]] You, Mr Darabos, go here and speak of many examples. They always speak of different examples, but all are NATO members. I say: Let us take the best example, and this is the example of Switzerland. [[Abg. Scheibner:... Take-off hunters!]] Switzerland has exemplary positions in many areas, including in the area of the German army, also in the area of the military army. [[Abg. Scheibner:... Take-off hunters!]] No one in Switzerland would seriously demand the abolition of military service today. Nobody! Because Switzerland takes this neutral tradition seriously. There are other considerations only where neutrality is not present or is not to be continued seriously. That's exactly what you're hiding from the population. [[Call at BZÖ: There is also this in Switzerland!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Petzner.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Austria needs no alternative to the existing military service, but a government alternative to Werner Faymann and Josef Pröll. This is, in fact, the political reality. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We have a political force in this government, which, for ideological reasons, wants to destroy our federal army, to endanger our security, to abandon our neutrality, and, in fact, to break civil service, even though you yourself were working there, Mr Darabos. Don't even worry about it. You return that even in this area, you are doing everything you can to end this, so to speak. That's a disaster. That's really a disaster. I therefore say that we no longer want to take this risk. What we need, however, is a military reform, which also deserves this name. There was a great commission, even under the chairmanship of the former old mayor of Vienna, Helmut Zilk. Great results have been achieved, which have not yet been implemented. They ask themselves: What's all this for? If all the parties were to make a composition at the time, they prepared reasonable proposals for reform in the interests of the security of our country, but they did not implement anything of it, and today everything that has been done by all the parties at that time simply throws it overboard, then it is not fair, then it is not correct. It's just in the 100s. Bruno Kreisky's birthday to draw attention to his intention. The SPÖ is today quite, very far from the intention of Bruno Kreiskys. There, in the so-called Lütgendorf doctrine, there was also the foundation for our security positioning, for the positioning of our Austrian federal army, which has just proved itself, and for the comprehensive state defense, and there is also the social-political component of military duty. And that's what's being pushed away from you. Of course, it also includes tasks, citizenship education, including integration tasks, where, unfortunately, in many areas of society today, we are experiencing a failure of God, such as in the field of education. Since France, as a NATO country, abolished military service, we have a dramatic increase in the problems of integration. Yes, it is also a task of the federal army to carry out integration tasks. Many people who have moved to Austria and have then become citizens have developed a much deeper and deeper relationship with their new homeland, and have also developed responsibility for their new homeland, because of their obligation to do so at the Bun desheer. This too is a component that should not be ignored. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The duty to serve the father country also conveys important values such as discipline and also the classification of individuals into a whole to fulfil a comprehensive task, a responsibility, a commitment we have, also defined in the Constitution in the field of neutrality. This is completely disregarded in many discussions during the last few days. And that's where we're going to go. We will therefore also present a motion of censure against you today, because it is no longer reasonable for the Austrian people to do what you are doing, Minister of Defence.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e16626	In response to the question, Mr. Federal Minister for Defence and Sport Mag. Darabos. The speaking time should not exceed 20 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e16648	Madam President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Perhaps I am naïve, because I have hoped that we can hold an objective debate on the future of the Austrian federal army and defence policy in Austria. I've given up this in the last few days. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Strache keeps a newspaper section up.]] I would also like to make it quite clear, Mr Strache, that is what I am now saying as a citizen and social democrat: Bruno Kreisky would turn around in the grave if he knew you were trying to capture him! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Call the FPÖ:You don't even know how to write Kreisky!]] Not only he, but also very many Austrians, the vast majority of Austrians would not be blamed if you were to carry out histories here in the Hohe Haus and claim the year 1934 for yourself. I think that this is a political insanity in order to say it openly. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: You don't need to say that from above, Minister!]] The question of migration, which you have referred to in the framework of the German army, which I would like to say at the outset, is also a very strange one, as you have presented it here today from this panel. [[Abg. That's where you failed! Look into your party, integration failed!]] You, Mr Strache, have your own idea of dealing with the past, with paintball games in the forest and so on, with predatory and gendarm games in the forest. That's your way of dealing with the past. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] And that you're going here today and giving it to yourself, that's last-class. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Stop it! That's unworthy! Last class!]] I would just like to remind you, before I come to the subject matter – I will answer all the 20 questions you have asked me, to the best of your knowledge and conscience – that, Mr Strache, you were also a leading member of the FPÖ in 2002 at this time, I would say. [[Intrusions of the Abg. May. Stefan]] In 2004 the FPÖ adopted the recommendations of the Federal Commission for Reform: You have so much liked to quote here today, who are literally saying: “The division of the German army 2010 is such that later developments, such as the suspension of compulsory military service and the conversion to a volunteer army, are possible.” That's what it was. Your decision, you were there! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. They're sitting over there. They're sitting somewhere else today!]] I would also like to remind Mr Scheibner, who was at least constructive in the discussion, who was at the time your Minister of Defence, then FPÖ Minister, that he has already represented concepts that I have in the drawer, which were very clearly aimed at abolishing the obligation of military service. Since you – I have to tell you that openly – and this is a political debate, I am grateful that you have spoken about this today – have spoken about neutrality and the NATO question: They voted with the 2001 Security Doctor for an approach to NATO. [[Abg. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] This has been a black and blue decision, and this decision is still valid. [[Abg. Strache: HC Strache and the FPÖ under HC Strache exactly the opposite!]] We are now in the security strategy discussion to eradicate your mistakes from then on. [[Abg. That's where you talk to the BZÖ! Here you are at the wrong address!]] I am happy that the current Minister for Foreign Affairs Spindelegger sees this as much as I do and that this crowd will be destroyed in the Austrian neutrality policy you have referred to many times today. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] For comparisons with Switzerland: Switzerland has 70 interceptors. [[Abg. They're working at least! At least they can be used!]] I reduced from 18 to 15. In Switzerland, there is a military system that has a much stronger military system than the system I will propose to you today and which I have also presented to the public. I am really grateful to you for this discussion, because I would also like to tell you before I come to the contents that I am not surprised that 60 percent of your voters, perhaps former voters, believe that the general obligation of military service should be abolished – that is a very clear statement from the people. [[Abg. Bitch: Don't deceive yourself! Make a referendum! Make a referendum in the next few months, then you will be taught a better person!]] You'll see, we're going to have this discussion. This discussion will take place over the next few months. And I will also put you quite openly on the table in an objective discussion, in contrast to her contribution today, why I have come to the decision to propose this model 3, which I will explain to you afterwards. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Let's make new elections!]] We are just standing – and with that I am at the content – at the beginning of the 21st century. ==References====External links== I have never said that the system we now have is a bad system, but I believe that, due to the experience that we can discuss politically here, namely the question of the end of the Cold War – a tank war in the March field has become unlikely – we also have to think about making a change in our military system. It is true that we have now made it clear and that it has also been clear to us that, due to experience such as an alliance-free state such as Sweden – not a NATO member, as you have claimed, but an alliance-free state – and also experience in Germany, our neighboring country, we can think about how it can continue in Austria. [[Abg. Strache: (keeping a newspaper cut to the height) Mettled in stone, Mr. Darabos! Your words are ground in stone!]] Show me a state – even Germany has not done this – that has proposed a five-stage model First: to focus the discussion, second: to ensure that an expert opinion is taken from the foreign armies as well – we have that on 15. Made December – third: presenting seven models – and I don't understand at all why it should be objectionable when a Minister of Defence is drawing up models and putting them into political discussion, fourthly: launching a political process, with both the coalition partner and you as opposition parties, and fifthly, involving the people. [[Abg. Strache: You always get NATO members as comparison examples! That's obviously your doctrine!]] [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] [[Abg. Strache: NATO models!]] [[Abg. Stache: Please hurry! Quickly make a referendum!]] I say quite frankly to you, you look quite old in this discussion, because the majority of the population is for my model, and the large majority of the population is also in favour of including them on an important political issue such as the question of security policy: [[Abg. Bitch: Don't deceive yourself! Make a referendum!]] Obligation or no?, one is. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: You don't even have a majority for a referendum!]] [[Abg. Strache: Support our request for immediate referendum today!]] That you are on the wrong side, okay, I take note of that, but your political orientation is a little worrying to me. We have made it quite clear that we have put seven models to the discussion. I've preferred a model politically, and I think it's the best, because this model 3, which I've introduced, brings the same performance, the same cost without compulsion. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] This means that within the Austrian security and defence policy, we will also clearly ensure that we still have 10,000 soldiers for civil protection, 90 percent of Austrians also want to be able to provide more than 1,000 soldiers for foreign operations, that we can perform assistance missions and that, fourth, we can also achieve the very theoretical case – I hope, at least that Parliament will agree with me – of national defence. So more could and didn't want to do either. The system is mature, it is also equipped with components which, for example, the Federal Republic of Germany has not implemented, namely the civil service, which we have also worked with the cooperation of the colleague Hundstorfer. So if you assume here that political preparation is not okay, I have to stop it, I don't see it that way. On the contrary, in the discussion of the next few weeks and months, I hope that this model will not only be mature, but will also meet all the questions you have asked. I would like to come to the model now because you have addressed Switzerland. The model would specifically mean that we strengthen the military component – not weaken it, but strengthen it, with incentive systems of a financial nature that you have also addressed – that was the only constructive and objective contribution you have made – also within the system. [[Abg. Strache: But the military organizations do not see this, for example, the Lord Schaffer!]] And that is why I believe that this model is also feasible and that we should continue to work with this model. The serious representatives of the militia have also expressed their opinion that this model will enhance the quality of the militia and can therefore be improved. [[Abg. Strache: The representatives of the Milizverbands say exactly the opposite! They're outraged!]] I emphasize once again before I come to your questions: equal performance, equal costs without compulsion. Another sentence: I will, of course, talk to the coalition partner, but also to the parties represented in Parliament, even if you have practically refused the willingness to debate and dialogue today, and at the end of the day – I am firmly convinced that it is right and important – I will also involve the people. Now to your questions: Question 1: Of course, the Austrian federal army fully fulfils its legally defined tasks. On question 2: With the model I presented, with the model 3, it is of course possible to achieve the same performance at the same cost without compulsion. [[Abg. Stache: Let's make a referendum by June, Minister!]] On question 3, on whether there would be a loss of ability: No, quite the contrary, even employees from my home, who are perhaps even more positive compared to the general obligation of military service, have expressed in recent months with their calculation that we have better skills with this model than with the model we currently have. On question 4, on the impact of the implementation of this model on infrastructure: There are no effects in the special sense. It is just like the model of general military service, but without ground defense. That is, basic defenses are replaced by the volunteer militia or more time soldiers. Question 5: I will continue the way that you, even if you have distanced yourself from it today, jointly decided to reduce the number of properties. Minus 38 percent is the result of ÖBH 2010 under my predecessor Günther Platter, with the chairmanship of Helmut Zilk. And today I also say quite openly that the innovative use of synergies – for example, we try to bring together locations in Vienna – will also have a positive impact on the German army. On question 6: Compared to the model of general military service, where 1 700 posts had been saved over the period of 10 years, we will now also save 500 posts, i.e. a total of 2 200 posts. Questions 7 and 9: I will continue this path of the dedicated accompanying measures that we have set for years. This means that we will provide close-to-town intensive support and training in the personal service provider, offers for job opportunities. Question 8: I can't understand why an apprentice should get more than an instructor. That is a question which, in my view, is not understandable. Questions 10 and 11: There will continue to be a shift of resources away from the administration to the force. For example, I remember – and you will not be able to talk about this – the reduction of my ministry, the reduction of the number of civilians. We will then have to work out the details. Question 12: The militia is and remains, of course, part of the operational organisation. From my point of view, it will not only be strengthened by manpower, but also by competence. Questions 13 and 14: I have already argued – contrary to what you have given of yourself today – that the model I have proposed will mean the same cost as the current model, that is, in ten years € 21.8 billion or € 2.18 billion per year. [[Abg. Strache: It can't go out!]] Question 15, Participation of the General Staff: Of course, the General Staff was involved. So that only a very small circle has developed this model is not true. So I have to answer the question with no. On the question 16: According to experience, the attractive incentives enable the required number of volunteers. We now have 700 time soldiers, if you can use this rough term. We have over 3,000 applications. We need over 2,000 time soldiers in the new system. So where better incentives do not make us get the volunteers, that's what escapes my imagination. I am sure that, unlike your request, we will receive the volunteers, including Sweden. On the question 17: The legal framework conditions are far-reaching and should be adapted in case of need. This is about the mobilisation and operational capacity of the militia. On the question 18: Of course – this is the new thing in Austria, as opposed to discussions in other European countries – civil service has also been taken into account. The question of civil service has been sufficiently planned by my colleague Mr Hundstorfer. [[Abg. Strache: First you reduce the support, then...!]] Over the last few days, Mr Hundstorfer has said several times that an alternative model for civil service would no longer cost and have the same effectiveness in the social and health field. On question 19: The approaches you have addressed are contained in Model 1. On question 20, on the last question: The contents of the models were communicated widely within the federal army and also in the public. I am looking forward to a more objective and good debate over the next few months with the coalition partner and also with the opposition parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e17119	We are now going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, no speaker or speaker may speak for more than 10 minutes. Each club has a total speaking time of 25 minutes. First of all, Mr. Dr. Fichtenbauer. I would like to have a speaking time: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e17147	Mr. Federal Minister! High house! It is not to be expected that you will be cool, yes, cold mind to take away what was rightly held up by Klubobmann Strache, although it would be advisable not to pull off the big insulted number and not to try to give with small Marxist dialectical ritual inappropriate answers, but to be concentrated in the service of the matter. It is exclusively for you to blame yourself, and you have to attribute to yourself what you have done here politically. Number one: Of course, it is perfectly legitimate to introduce reflections on reforms of state institutions, especially the army for which you are currently responsible. [[Call: Leader]] But it is not legitimate to have any degree of previously acquired confidence, as admittedly also by my group and myself, so to speak, so that you simply do not consider this confidence to be necessary, so that you are necessarily also distrusted. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr. Darabos, in a chain of statements with superficial research since January 2007 to the end of 2010, you have known at least 15 or 20 times unbreakable and clear sense of words for general military service, also, and in the context of this, still changing, when the mayor of Vienna discovered that he might be able to save from floating skins in this area. But the core sentence, it'll be up to you. ==References== July 2010 you said: “For me, the obligation of military service is ground in stone. With me as Minister of Defense, there will be no end of military service." [[Abg. Strache: That's how much the words are worth! The words of Faymann and Darabos are not worth anything!]] Mr Minister, this is clear, but you have enriched Austrian history of time, namely in the field of rock science: There will be the “Darabos stone” in the future. The nature of the “Darabos stone” is however kneadable clay. The mayor only needs to put himself wide on the stone – and he becomes a flutter! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. May. Stefan.]] Nothing is left of “regulated ”! – This is the real fact that your “stone” has been employed by you. It is sufficient to look at the media that look at the liberals more critically than at the socialists. In response to your seven models, take the “curier” here as follows: “For Austria, a new Security Doctor is currently in preparation. It lays down the requirements for the German army in the future. The doctrine is not politically negotiated, let alone decided. So the Minister of Defense does not yet know the future tasks of the army, but he already knows which kind of army is best suited to its completion. That’s called ‘coordinated process’. With his slanting In practice, the Minister confirms once again that he is less focused on policy on matters than on parties’. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What are the party's requirements? - Everyone knows: The SPÖ was afraid of the so-called desire of my colleague Pilz. Pilz and “crown” force the SPÖ, which until then has the general obligation in stone, into the knees, and at once, in a horucking process, there are these models. Not that the models would still be subject to a certain mental reservation that the Minister would say: I thought that out, and now, please, dear public, perhaps rather coalition partners or even dear opposition, let's talk about it! – No, he falls with a head in the middle of the swamp of disbelief as regards his person in his office in the future, and says: Seven models! The obligation to do so will be abolished! - No one knows what the future will bring. And to the question in the ORF: Well, do you know that you get the 3,000 volunteers a year? Yeah, I'm sure I wouldn't have suggested it. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: They're ground in stone!]] [[Abg. The 16 000 to 20 000 German armymen for disaster aid, we will also be enchanting them out of the hat!]] Yes, this is an exchange declaration that I would have liked to fill in digits and put it in the parliamentary presidency – and if the commitment is not complied with, a few 100 million will be due. Then political responsibility would be considered. So I repeat: Coalition partners are not involved, Parliament is not involved, the Chief General is not involved, the Chief of Armed Forces is not involved. Mr Federal Minister, with all regrets, to be on such a step, but it is no different. You have to understand that with the army, with the Austrian security policy not, we have said in school that we can play "Pfitschigogerln". I apologize for using this fluffy expression here. It is said to try, with the help of a combet, to present and play so-called balls that can be played via a flat tabletop. – This is the method chosen by you to speak responsibly of the interests of the army. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] So there is no other way, and I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e17264	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e17439	Next speaker: Mr Klubobmann Dr. Cap. I'll set the clock up to 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e17460	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! I would like to say that this is the prime minister in the defence department, who has the courage to think about a rescheduling of the federal army, taking into account the geopolitical situation. And I think you should pay tribute to that once, because too long the German army was a great place of lobbyists and interests that had been established outside the federal army. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What I don't estimate is if there are police officers and police officers in the federal army. The head is the Federal Minister there. [[Abg. Kitzmüller:... I don't know!]] This is the one who bears political responsibility, and he has to present models when he thinks that this is necessary. And he has done so, and he is engaged in a public discussion, and it should take place at the end of the day, if necessary, of course – and that will probably be so – a survey of the population. But I want to turn to the FPÖ now. I think that what you are doing today is very courageous, because I would like to ask you the following question: [[Call the FPÖ:Always!]] Which of you was actually present at the Federal Congress of the FPÖ 1997? - Well, no one! Now everyone has the tarpaulin on, can't remember anything. [[Abg. Street: Ask who was there in 2005!]] Remember 1997! You decided on the following passage in the FPÖ's party program: “The general military obligation, which has been increasingly eroded, should be suspended and replaced by a professional army consisting of professional troops and a volunteer military.” – Well, you were there at the party’s day, right? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Strache: And what was decided in 2005? What has been decided under my supervision, 2005?]] They have raised their hands very well in 1997. We don't want to forget that, blue pink jump. [[Abg. Strache: In 2005 the FPÖ had a new observer! What has been decided?]] But I would particularly like to stress “the one that has been increasingly hollowed out anyway. ” This analysis of compulsory military service is very interesting, which you had here in 1997. You can't see the analysis you've decided to do this – the task of the army, the geopolitical situation, it doesn't happen at all. It's just this passus, where you're actually talking about a mixing system between a professional army and a militia. [[Abg. Strache: Under my supervision, first action: to take this nonsense back again!]] – But wait, it will be better! [[Abg. Strache: 2005 this nonsense has been taken back!]] Klubobmann Strache rightly speaks of the next Federal Congress of the FPÖ – of course there was one again, you have federal parties at some intervals – and that was – I can help you if you do not remember – on 23. ==References== Highly interesting! What have we got? – Listen, listen, Article 3! There is the following:... – No, no, nothing “compulsory”! [[Abg. Strache: Obligation and maintenance of neutrality!]] There's a memory weakness. I'm gonna help you a little. Article 3 is replaced by the following: “We are committed to a general duty of service in order to carry out the security tasks and for democratic reasons,” says the Commission. “Either in the form of military service or in the form of a social service as a personal service of the citizen for the security and independence of Austria.” [[Abg. That's right! Service duty!]] They say: Service or social service! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. That's right! It's only with military duty!]] – That’s clean, because after the formulation you have, you say: The most important thing is that the citizen is obliged to do something! That can be military service, that can be social service, we don't care! The main thing is the obligation and the duty! [[Abg. Street: military service or military service! That's it!]] What do you say, as a security policy contribution, is that what stands in there? This is the expression of a drama, but for God's sake it is not a consideration! Of course there are no special analyses or anything else in the whole, but there is simply and simply... – By the way, what is “service”? What is “compulsory service ”? [[Call the FPÖ:Compulsory!]] No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, To, to, na, na, na, na! There is “commitment ”! [[Abg. Street: military service, social service, civil service!]] If this is illegal, is it unlawful, is it illegal? - Well, that's it! There is no “service” at all! That's a word creation. That must have slipped you out of the spring back then. [[Call: “Employment service”]] – “work service” is called that, yes. Thank you for the call, very helpful. [[Abg. Fuck you!]] No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, It's stupid, that's what's in the program. But that's in fact what you wrote in there. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] And, say, do you have the courage to make yourself here and talk about defence policy and security policy? [[In the direction of Federal Minister Darabos, pointing to FPÖ:]] They're not satisfative, Minister. That's pointless! [[Abg. Dr. Graf: So I wouldn't go to court that hard!]] I am really disappointed by what they have to do with expertise. I thought that's got a real background, they've been thinking about it longer and have a program there, but they don't have that. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: That you're going to go that way to the Minister?- Oh, my God!]] And that's unfortunate, because now it's about the following: Now it is about putting a concept on the table, which is truly credible. [[Abg. Blow: That you are still insulting the Minister! ... ‘not capable of satisfaction’!]] - No, no! – And that is exactly what the Minister did: The Minister has presented a concept. And I think this concept is worth discussing once, here and in the public. And I find that the voluntary principle, as it is presented here, will guarantee professionalism, both in the army – it has already been provided most of it with a professional component, which is overlooked most – and the voluntary principle will also apply to social services, where one is paid for one year, where one has to perform highly professionally these services, and where the 1 300 support organisations – I hope so, and I believe that it will certainly be so – will be satisfied and then all these tasks will be fulfilled. [[Abg. May. Stefan: “There will be only the best to go to the army! ”]] Why compulsion, if it is voluntary? Why compulsion when it comes to a voluntary concept and the professional use of foreign countries, the protection of disasters and the tasks of national defence can be most professionally carried out? This is a minister thinking about the efficient use of the means of taxation. This is a minister who thinks that the needs of the population are truly met after professional disaster protection. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Three months ago! He's been thinking for three months! Don't let him think about it.]] This is a minister who has the courage to produce and to say, yes, I also imagine the criticism, I also present an offensive model, a minister who says, 1,000 soldiers for foreign use, highly professional – there are already no more present servants! – and it’s a minister who is thinking about how to really use resources here – not one who buys and believes tanks, he’s still in the Second World War and has to defend the Marchfeld with the tanks, and not someone who buys Eurofighter and doesn’t ask whether you can’t guarantee airspace surveillance in Austria with lower, better, better means. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] For the first time, the question is asked: What does Austria and the German army need? The first time! And where is your model? Take the model ’97! [[Abg. Street: Model 2005! Read the 2005 model!]] Go back to your roots! Take the model ’97, there you have this mixing model anyway! Actually very far-sighted what stands in there, where you combine between this professional component and the military component. I have to tell you, not enough to sit today! That was too little, dear blue group! That was too little.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e17806	Mr Amon has now come to speak. I'll set the clock up to 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e17828	Madam President. Mr. Minister of Defence! Minister for Economic Affairs! Ladies and gentlemen! In an interview with the “Oberösterreichische Nachrichten” last July, the chief commander of the Austrian federal army, Federal President Dr. Heinz Fischer, said: “The discussion about a professional army does not convince me because it is based on a thought which also leads away from neutrality: that a European professional army is formed, in which all states bring soldiers. This is not possible for Austria.” That's what Federal President Dr. Heinz Fischernoch said last July. Mr. Minister of Defence, you're not making it easy for us today. With this debate – and I will draw your attention to it! – remove yourself from the Government Convention. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Fichtenbauer.]] [[Abg. Strache:... Coalition break!]] Mr. Darabos, you said it yourself. September of last year – not in an interview where one could then say that I was mis-quoted, but in a guest comment you yourself wrote – literally, because you criticized colleagues from FPÖ for your argumentation regarding Sweden: “In Sweden, experts expect massive personnel recruitment difficulties.” – These are your words, Federal Minister. They continue to say: “Even the plans of the NATO member state of Germany, which are often met by military opponents, are no reason to shake our success model.” – Your words, Federal Minister. [[Abg. Insanity! We have always celebrated it.]] They continue to say – actually, only this article was needed to read, and you would have a wonderful speech –: ‘It would no longer be possible to fulfil the constitutional requirements, with a duty to do so. Without basic defenses, at least 10 000 soldiers could no longer be provided for the disaster (...). “ This was necessary in the flood 2002 – you remember. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Street: 16,000! There were even 16,000!]] They continue to say: “A abolition of military service” “will also mean that there is no civil service anymore. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Petzner]] Without civil servants, the health and social system would be weakened, significant additional costs would be incurred.” – Your words, Federal Minister. And in the end: “This is why young citizens will continue to live in the future Service for our society – whether as a recruit or as a civil servant.” [[Abg. Strache: This has now been addressed to Mr. Cap! That's the duty to serve!]] Mr Federal Minister, with these quotations we have no problem in itself. That's absolutely all right, what you said. It will be difficult if the Federal Minister for Defence changes his opinion several times within a few months. In the last few days, you have said that you are now advocating a general military service and a professional army. They present – and this is particularly confusing, Mr. Federal Minister – seven models, seven different models. And I wonder who these models are all supposed to be for. The third model is obviously yours, that's what you say. You say that's a model, you say you have a concept. I counted it: Her alleged concept has exactly 14 lines. 14 lines includes Your defence concept for the Republic of Austria! - There is a need for caution, Minister of State. [[Abg. Strache: This is the depth of the words ground in stone!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Today, Federal Minister Darabos, we read in the “Kurier” that you are currently distributing a book to 12,000 recruits, in which you are relinquishing for general military service! - Well, I want you to know one of them, ladies and gentlemen. Nobody knows! [[Abg. Strache: That's a frog!]] And I think that, as I said, it is quite questionable that we deal with the security of our country in such a way. [[Abg. Strache: This is a real plantation that the Minister of Defense is doing!]] [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Our esteemed former Foreign Minister Alois Mock once said: One can make mistakes in social policy, and one can correct it. One can also make mistakes in education policy, and one can correct it. If you make a mistake in security policy, you may not be able to correct this mistake anymore. This was said by Alois Mock – and this, Mr. Federal Minister, was also written to you in the master book today. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] For the People's Party, Mr. Federal Minister, security is at the centre. A federal army is, by the way, a federal army – and not a better building force or the like. A federal army has a clear task! And this task must be defined once. There is a current security doctor, to whom we must first, as well as the federal constitution, hold. If the Government Convention says that we are negotiating a new Security Doctor, we will! Let's negotiate this security doctor. The proposals made by our ministers have been in Parliament since autumn. It's up to you, Minister of State! You have promised to put your proposals on the table at the end of 2010. [[Interference of Federal Minister Mag. Darabos.]] These proposals are not yet on the table of the House, and we should go into the debate on the tasks of the Federal Army. Let us discuss the new tasks of the German army, if there are really so serious changes since the year 2004, when the Zilk Commission presented its results! For us, security is at the centre, Minister of State! And the debate on the design of the Austrian federal army must take place in a logical sequence: First of all, we define these tasks, and then we can talk about the structure of a federal army, Mr. Federal Minister. We do not conclude a reform, but the obligation, ladies and gentlemen, for the Austrian People's Party does not stand for disposition.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e18016	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr Pilz. I'll set the clock to 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e18052	Ladies and gentlemen! To stay with the stones for a short time: It is true that a few months ago, the general obligation to do so was grounded in stone by the Minister of Defense. Thankfully, the mayor of Vienna has made a new stone available to him, and now the abolition of the general obligation of military service has been ground into a new stone. I hope that this will make the stone deliveries to the Minister of Defence complete. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] I take note of it because it also means a political opportunity when a Minister of Defence, which is not always good, is politically a flag in the wind. This wind blows out of the right direction, and I assume that with the help of this wind and the attitude of the Minister of Defense this year, in the interest of the young men of the Republic of Austria, the general military obligation will be abolished. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: Mr. Pilz, we don't need your winds at all!]] [[Abg. New builder: What about the women?]] Why should she be abolished? – That's quite simple: because she doesn't need anyone anymore. There is no real reason for young men to sit around in barracks, which we need in schools, universities and in the workplaces. There is no factually reasonable reason for the military leadership to say that now that the weak years are coming: No, we prefer to take on the labour market and shortages and continue to put these young men in barracks for months, where they learn as the only thing: greet everything that moves, and clean everything that does not move! That's too little! [[Call at the FPÖ: There you have to change the system!]] The second argument is much more important: The military service is being abolished throughout Europe. Why, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ and the Austrian People's Party? – For a simple reason: because, with the exception of the Finnish and Turkish discussions – which have quite different historical and regional policy backgrounds, where it concerns national defence and very specific threats – all other countries, especially the Member States of the European Union, are identified: Lack of enemy we no longer need these young trained men for military national defense. Where there is no enemy, there is nothing to defend, this should also slowly speak to the Freedom Party and the Austrian People's Party. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Ikrath.]] Mr Amon is perfectly right: It would have been much better to start with the doctrine discussion in time and then to find out about the obligation to do so. Yes, this is also the right procedure: first of all, to discuss seriously what are at all the modern and appropriate tasks for Austrian armed forces. Is it the state defense? During the big discussion about the military obligation at the Wiener Hotel Hilton, the Minister of Defense himself explained: No, in the next decades the military duty will not be a core military task in Austria. The only key military task that remains is foreign operations, usually with a mandate from the United Nations. To do this, we do not need a presenceal servant – five-party consensus in the Federal Reform Commission. No service providers for foreign operations – continue to assist. Yes, does it really make sense to train young men on tanks so that they can shake out avalanches? Does it make sense to train young men in artillery so that they can drag sandbags on high - water rivers? - That's dispassionate! All over the world, civil disaster aid is organised where security policy has come in half a reason. Example Sri Lanka – this example comes from the Ministry of Defense – the same water treatment unit in the last disaster a few years ago in Sri Lanka: The Red Cross needs three people to operate this facility, the Austrian Federal Army including self-protection, communication, Enlightenment and so on 77 persons! Do we want to finance 77 people where three people are rich?- Oh, my God! Go to the Federal Republic of Germany, look at the technical assistance work: As in the question of military service, the Germans have found a much better and more contemporary answer, because they started a discussion of reason over party borders very early last year. [[Call to the FPÖ: They're at NATO!]] I would remind you of the Federal Government Reform Commission: Why was it possible – unfortunately, this failed in the implementation, and this is not only the responsibility of the current Minister of Defence, but also the responsibility of its predecessor – to work together with the experts of the Ministry of Defence at the time to develop a very forward-looking reform model with the essential cooperation of the parliamentary groups? - Because there was willingness in this house. It must be possible – after security policy, in particular military security policy, is anything but a question of belief in the world – to complete a serious and speedy doctrine work here in the National Council until the summer of this year. At the same time, it will be possible to make serious preparations for the exit from the military service, especially in the Federal Ministry of State Defense. All of this must be possible. They will probably come up – that is our proposal; perhaps there are better proposals, but that is our proposal – if you take seriously the only remaining military core task of “international missions” that you can deal with a Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs of up to 10 000 people if you create the Force to Administration 2 : 1 and reduce the central office from 800 to 400 people. You will see that it is possible to abandon all the weapons that are unnecessary. They will see that it has been possible for two years within the framework of the European Union – through the new offers of the international division of labour in security policy – that Austria is focusing exclusively on the lower Petersberg Spectrum, i.e. on peace-keeping measures with less, with lighter military operations. Then, suddenly, the Minister of Defense will find that there are certain conditions: A, B, C – excellent units –, pioneers – in the international comparison quite recognizable and usable in the new model – and then a core of police-like, well-protected infantry for international policing, and Austria can – probably not need this budget – make an international offer to be taken seriously. And then we will talk about finance and the Minister of Defense will have to explain – even if the future model, which I think is realistic, is cheaper than today, the transition will not be cheap, and it is a question of budget fairness and fairness to thousands of people that we say it in time: Ladies and gentlemen, taxpayers, that also means early retirement of about 5,000 people! You have to say that in time and open. If you put all of this on the table and finally start with the doctrinal discussion in the National Council, you can also prepare a clean referendum and not a popular survey. A referendum for two reasons: first of all: because it makes sense to vote on a legislative text, namely a change in the law on the military in four specific points and not on a multiple choice offer, on seven models which I do not want to discuss here for reasons of fact, second: because a referendum is binding on the Federal Government, and I do not want to have – in the nature of the dispute, which is exactly the same in education policy and in many other areas up to the administrative reform – that the coalition dispute, regardless of the outcome of a popular survey, paralyses and makes the whole reform impossible. If there is a referendum with a clear outcome, then the Members of the Government of SPÖ and ÖVP will stick to it because they must stick to it. I call for this to be understood as a parliamentary opportunity and at least where there is no doctrinal argument and where there is a certain openness of discussion – and I see this in the SPÖ and in the ÖVP, there are very different moods – to start very quickly with the parliamentary debate, to establish a doctrine in Parliament before the summer and to prepare a serious referendum on a change of the law. This would be an objective contribution to a reasonable reform policy that might give people in this Republic some confidence in politics. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e18143	Mr Scheibner is now speaking. I'll set the clock to 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e18166	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! The significant aspect of the quality of the security policy debate not only here in the House, but the last weeks and months is that the Member of the Pilz – one of ours, I am now saying it between quotation marks, “intellectual images”, namely, a “intellectual image” of those people who have always stood up for the federal army, from the past – is one who is presenting here at least an objectively well-founded model, which can be criticized, but which is at least argued against and can be argued against. [[Abg. Strache: What, are you sitting in a boat?]] No, my dear colleague, I am with you, thank God, no longer in a boat, because what you and your group have offered here today is embarrassing. [[Abg. Strache: When it comes to the federal army removal, you are already in a boat!]] [[BZÖ's condolences.]] For almost 15 years, I was involved in drawing up the security policy line of this party. [[Abg. That was no fame!]] We have at least been able to look at ourselves in the mirror, because we have expressed our opinion, which was also objectively acceptable. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Strache:... unfortunately God massively harms the Federal Lord!]] You have – and you have been, primarily – abused a flood disaster in 2002 to beat party-political small money internally and outside against your own structure, against one's own policy – then it was the planes. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] So don't make yourselves here and don't say that you are the only ones who stand for the defence of the land. If you have to quote Kreisky – Kreisky, that's 30 years ago! What did you do in 30 years? You can't use Kreisky's models to make security policy here today. [[Abg. May. Stadler: 34th year!]] Or the 34th year. – Please, we have said again and again, the phobia of the SPÖ, that you are today, in the 21st century. By the end of the century, the shadows of the 34th year still rise here, must finally be laid down! Yes, where do you live, say, if you have no other arguments in the security policy of the future as Kreisky and the 34th year?- Oh, my God! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Strache: If you don't want to hear it, it's clear!]] So that's absolutely infidelity! Per neutrality – yes, what neutrality, colleague Strache? [[Abg. Blow: Whom you want to sacrifice! We're not!]] – What do we want to sacrifice, what do you want to defend? [[Abg. We want to revive you!]] Do you know the Austrian Constitution, Mr. Strache? – We already know the Austrian federal constitution. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: It's about the Minister!]] No, not for the Minister. But the hold that there was... [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Graf.]] That's what I'm coming up with. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: You don't have any more speaking time!]] You know very well that with the constitutional change in 1998, the ever-lasting neutrality was abolished by the red and black federal government. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] And you confess to it in your program. You write in your program, in the... [[Abg. Strache: It's still anchored in the Constitution!]] No, it's not! We also read the comments. [[Abg. Strache: It is still anchored in the Constitution!]] In your 2005 programme, you make a commitment to neutrality, but also a confession to the tasks of Petersberg outside the European Union. [[Abg. Street: Inside!]] Outside the European Union! What are the Petersberg tasks? – Mr Strache, please, what are the tasks of Petersberg? [[Abg. Street: We have spoken of it “inwardly ”!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] No, it's in your program: outside! What are the Petersberg tasks? - He doesn't know! [[Abg. Street: The assistance in the European Union...!]] I say it: The Petersberger tasks are a broad spectrum, but also include peace-making measures, fighting actions also against the will of one of the parties. Now please explain to me, Mr “Constitutional Legal” strache, how this is compatible with the principle of ever-increasing neutrality as it has trained international law! – So there is nothing behind it! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. I don't think it's true! The assistance within the European Union...!]] If I say Switzerland is a model, that's all right. Yes, they have implemented them consistently, although they also discuss it. But they don't need to fight over 15 interceptors, but they have 70 and now think about how to renew them. Mr Darabos, the problem is, unfortunately, that you must be protected from immeasurable criticism, because there would be a lot of real criticism here. You may already know that a security question... – Listen [[Abg. Strache: Are you on a red-green course? Full of red-green course, Mr Scheibner!]] Now you're a little too, maybe the argument is a bit more objective! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] You've needed a long time until you've made a mistrust request. A few weeks ago, Mr Fichtenbauer presented himself to the Minister and said that there was no such thing as a distrust. You learned about it late. [[Abg. Strache: Are you proud of your red-green course?]] But it is purely party-political, what you blamed the Minister, you can also be blamed. You are not concerned with the matter, not with the security of the country, but with purely party-political calculation, that you are now bringing in the advocates of the obligation to do so. [[Abg. Podgorschek: This is an understatement!]] [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mr Minister, a soldier lives in a position – that is already being learned in basic education – also a Minister of Defence, and that is, one must always observe the situation, the environment, and if the situation changes, of course one must react accordingly. Only: ==References====External links== On October 4, 2010, when you made a vehement commitment to general military service at the removing of the Lieutenants in Wiener Neustadt, and on October 4, 2010. October, in other words, within two days, when you then said that no, you will see everything else now, there will be a popular survey to abolish the military obligation, you have not said that today. Perhaps that's how the security environment between the 2nd century and the 2nd century is going on. ==References== October has changed, because a statement by a mayor of Vienna, as important as it may be, cannot change the global political and security situation, so there must have been other reasons. [[Abg. Strache: There's the head...!]] [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This is the problem that we have with it, because of course we have to answer the question first – that is why I am very unhappy about this debate; it is not primarily about military duty: yes or no? – the task of a modern army, which is to fulfil the Austrian security policy and thus also the Austrian federal army in the future. You have to answer that first! You said the old doctrine was changed. – Then start with the discussion. I believe that this doctrine was not as bad as you represent it, because it already includes everything that has changed over the last decades, changed after Kreisky, which is why you had to react accordingly. The only thing that may not be sufficiently comprehensive is cyberwar, cyber-crime – but it will not matter whether there is military service or not. That is why, I believe, this Security Doctor 2001, whom you have rejected for party political reasons and not for proper reasons, is also a suitable basis for our security policy decisions. I also asked the Foreign Minister whether the whole spectrum, Mr Strache, including the peacekeeping measures, as our federal constitution provides, is still the scope of Austrian security policy. He said yes. And if it is – and a question would also be: Is that it? – then you can actually make very good distractions. But I've only heard of you up to now: One of the tasks of the Federal Army is disaster protection. – But I don’t need military training for basic defence workers for six months – that’s where Mr Pilz is right – but I need only technical assistance, and that’s what makes it cheaper. Then you said: UN operations. – Mr Darabos, UN missions are past, namely those peacekeeping missions, where we sit between parties for 30 years and see that they have no reason to agree once on a lasting peace solution. Look at this! Wherever blue helmets appear, they are initially threatened because they have no authority at all, according to Srebrenica and all the things that have happened because they have no robust mandate either. [[Interference of Federal Minister Mag. Darabos.]] Here in the House we discussed this with Ban Ki-moon, and he said that he needed a robust mandate for meaningful UN missions, as NATO has – Austria is in a NATO deployment in Kosovo, as all five parties voted. You voted against NATO's use in Kosovo? But that's quite interesting, I know something else. [[Abg. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] So I think UN operations are problematic. But if that is the case – you say, only subordinate provenance – then I don't need a army, of course, just as it is at present. But, Minister, you know that in this regard you have an opponent in us. Because I want a strong, powerful army, with appropriate training, with a corresponding equipment that does not have to be large – especially the official apparatus. A civil service right is totally unacceptable for an army. That should be reorganized! And then I can think about what weir system. And you, ladies and gentlemen, as a military officer, are there my consignees, I would like to say to you: [[towards FPÖ]] We all need to be happy and also socially-political – you also have a lot of military soldiers in your ranks – that we get enough volunteers who are proud to provide a service to the security of the country. [[Abg. That's what you're gonna do now! Talk to Mr Schaffer, with the military representative. The military representatives are outraged! Talk to them!]] – That must be our goal, ladies and gentlemen, and we work and fight for it! Then: A volunteer replaces us with four forced responsibilities, waiting only for them to be able to disarm again. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Of course, you can't take that away – that would be dangerous – without having the other. We need an incentive system to obtain sufficient volunteers. There are models that you just need to implement. I'll tell you: Much more dangerous – and I do not hear any criticism – is the plan to demilitarize the Austrian army, give up arms systems, give up entire associations, because it takes years, if not decades, to rebuild it. The obligation to reintroduce, which only one suspends, is the matter of a spring, so that within half a year one can immediately recall the need for military officers if it is necessary. But this is also the “slant” of the discussion: that the really problematic measures, ladies and gentlemen... – No, but I want an active federal army, which can really stand up to and use itself in the home and abroad according to the tasks we also find internationally. [[Abg. Strache: So you want the tanks in the garage?]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] It is also necessary to make the necessary money available for this, but a Party-politically motivated discussion by all political groups – for the ÖVP, dear friends, has also made the reduction of the basic defence service for six months for purely electoral reasons, without any material basis – at risk of the security of Austria and is to be rejected. [[Abg. Strache: So tanks into the garage until we re-enter the military service!]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign again]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amon]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e18651	Mr Podgorschek has now come to speak. I'll set the clock to seven minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e18673	Mr Scheibner, I would like to congratulate you on supporting a red-green model! - You took it a long way. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] Madam President. High house! Mr Darabos, I should like to congratulate you for the time being. I would like to congratulate you for playing soldier for the first time and acting like a soldier – but not as a soldier in the military sense, but as a party soldier: They became the commander of a then campaigning mayor, chief and last of the boulevard. They put party interests ahead of state-political responsibility. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But you have also demonstrated the transformability of a fighter: from the hard stone grinder to the Butterschnitzer. Mr Minister, there is now a brochure that is still being distributed to those responsible for military service, in which you are fully committed to military service in the foreword. You really don't know what your will is anymore. You take, I think, orders from – I don't know – the Löwelstraße or anything else. Show once that you are a Minister of Defense in the truest sense of the word! You didn't even include the army leadership. What you're saying is that you're not right. On our question 15, the head of the General Staff of Entacher and the commander of the armed forces, Lieutenant-General Höfler, were clearly not involved. It is actually a very sad picture that is there. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Now I want to talk to the Swedish model. It has a huge hook, namely: They do not have the volunteers, there are too few volunteers! Not even half of the expected volunteers have reported themselves there, and a similar disaster is ahead of us. And then there's another trick: Sweden spends 1.3% of the gross domestic product on national defence; Austria only 0.72 percent – that is, Sweden is spending almost twice as much. Our federal army has been under-financed for years, you know! But I do not even blame you on this, because your predecessors have already failed. I give the following prognosis: Sweden is on the best way to a professional army. They will see that Sweden will land at NATO no later than three years, because only by this will can they maintain their defence will. – That’s what’s going to happen to us at the end of the day. I fear a similar development for Austria. Always these arguments with the strategic conditions that have changed! It's true, too, I don't think we need a tank army in Marchfeld, but I can still remember very well that in 1988 well-known politicians have always said: The Berlin Wall, which will be there forever and ever!, and in 1989 we all came to the head at once when we experienced how quickly the situation changed. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz.]] [[Abg. Strache:... are standing at the border!]] And when Yugoslavia was destroyed, there was a similar development. When I look at the whole world, I see: It's being upgraded everywhere. The Chinese are getting up and getting up and getting up – only Europe is getting ready! [[Abg. Wenninger:... Upgrade?- Oh, my God!]] I'm not a lawyer, but that's how much you can read: Article 9a of the Federal Constitutional Act states quite clearly that there is a duty of military service for men, and this obligation is done either in the form of military service or civil service. So there is a need for a change in the Constitution, because it is still established as a constitutional law. And in Article 79 para. 1 is regulated by the military state defense system, which is also a constitutional law. Ladies and gentlemen! Lieutenant General Günter Höfler, Commander of the Armed Forces, was – I have already mentioned this – not involved. Among other things, he has announced that the model question does not solve the problems of the federal army and security policy. I think you've been wrong about this. I'm right, you have to think about reforms – but first of all, a strategic consideration is carried out! First, a new Security Doctrine is created or the old one is being adapted – it is currently changing – and then I can only talk about a possible model, but not from the outset just imitate anyone who is currently in the election campaign. The implementation and implementation of the reforms – which has already been mentioned: new service law et cetera – must be implemented afterwards. I have already mentioned that neutrality is in danger, and it will also, if we introduce the model you now prefer, finally be completely gone. [[Call at BZÖ: They don't exist at all!]] Say that honestly to the people! Tell it at the referendum that we will finally abolish neutrality with the introduction of your model! Take over state-political responsibility, Minister: Step back as Minister of Defense! You'll be party secretary again, you'll be better! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We have called for a secret vote here. This is now an opportunity for the ÖVP to set itself free from a minister who does not belong to this government.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e18793	Next, Mr Prehauser. I'll set the clock to 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e18814	Madam President. Mr. Minister of Defence! Minister for Economic Affairs! High house! Today's urgent question I think is unnecessary at this time, because starting a debate on a common solution to the security issue in Austria with such a meeting is not the best condition for common results. One should bring so much political maturity to discuss the models together first, try to bring in one's own proposals, and if one's not satisfied, one also has the opportunity to articulate. That would be the normal way. [[Abg. Dr. Graf:... you can... also!]] Mr President. In addition, at the same time asking a minister to resign, who takes the freedom to think, is also a strong thing. That would mean that if a member of the government thinks independently, it would actually have to think of resignation. We would certainly not be able to carry that, nor can we understand it! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr. Klubobmann Strache! They praised me first – thank you for that, but that is not necessary. Then: I am self-confident enough, and I move in a party in which one can also say his opinion. [[Call the FPÖ: With us too!]] Although it is sometimes painful – and must be – it is ultimately so that we are democratically oriented and can and should inform everyone of their opinion. This is very fertilizing from my point of view! My concerns in this debate are clearly included. I'll come back shortly after that, but now again to Model 3: If the conditions for financial equipment are appropriate and if recruitment is appropriate, the model is safe to be pursued, to consider it well and eventually to be considered appropriate. My problem was to be able to believe in it – to which I am in the business too long – that the finances can actually be provided. I now think back 20, 21 years – at the time Dr. Robert Lichal was Minister – what has been in the minds of the previous ministers since then: Lichal, now being praised all around, was then known as the "Revolver-Hofrat". This is really the only thing you know about him today. Then came Fassleven, which was the "Panzer Minister". We know what has eventually become of the Leopard tanks or Jaguar tanks – we have scrapped the Jaguar tanks. We got €7 million to get rid of them, but they cost over 70 million. Then Minister Scheibner came. Unfortunately, he didn't get through with the planes. It would have been better if he had been able to put more political weight in the scales at the time, then we would have saved the Dragon substitutes, namely the Eurofighters. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dolinschek]] [[Abg. Scheibner: I just wanted another model!]] Then came as the next Minister of Günther Platter. What has been remembered? – From my point of view, the reduction of military service to six months and the abolition of the military exercises. And later on, you'll have to say about Darabos: Although he was not from my party, he was ultimately the minister who brought movement into the federal army's structural improvement, only because he had the power to put them to the discussion. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz.]] And there we should do together and strengthen his back in his efforts! However, it is clear that: If we are talking about developing a new security strategy, it is right that it should come to the table as soon as possible and then equip the army according to the discussion. And it is important for me that this security strategy should be carried by as many parties as possible, because it cannot be pleasant for a minister or for a republic as a whole to re-establish a strategy, at any choice, at the same time that the majority may change in themselves. It can't be! The soldiers must know what their mission is, and the policy must know which orders they have to award, and ultimately stand and help to implement it. Mr Amon, although you have said full well that it is not possible to talk about this and that with the ÖVP, please see what order your young president has given to the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, namely to act immediately and to press ahead with the abolition of compulsory military service. And now to me personally, ladies and gentlemen: My preference for maintaining compulsory military service has two reasons: Firstly, I am not sure if one can finance the further approach, and secondly, some questions arise. For example: How to recruit young people? Who sorts them out? Who chooses her? Who decides for whom, in the end, there is another use in this army? – If these things can be clarified, the way for me to a modern future of this Austrian federal army is a further one, but of course a more rewarding one. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: These are just counter-arguments!]] I say quite openly to myself: The train of renovation, the restructuring of the army has departed. Now you can throw yourself in front of the loco and watch or try to get in and shape the track branches. For my part, I think it is more important to help the army than to stand in a slump and to see how the development continues. [[Interlocutory call to the ÖVP]] Ladies and gentlemen, the German army's capabilities depend on politics, and we are politics. If we are unable to give orders, we have nothing to expect from the army either. I call for the Minister's support in his difficult task!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e18937	Now comes Mr. Ing. I'm talking about the chapel. 5 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e18958	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mr Federal Minister, I too cannot spare you: On the “Day of Lieutenants”, when you put your elite into service, was for you the general obligation to obey daily orders, ground in stone and also dogma. In the new manual “Soldat 2011”, which you have just distributed to the invading young men, to your basic defense servants, is in your preface – and I quote –: "The general obligation to do so is the crucial factor in ensuring that the entire range of services provided by the Austrian Federal Army is ensured on a continuous basis. It is thus a guarantee of the security and stability of Austria.” – Quote. I don't think you're really comfortable now. Since your statements and since you wrote this preface, which is still valid, the geopolitical security situation has not changed, nor has anything changed in the fact that the Security Doctor has not yet been jointly represented as a framework for our political action. In return, however, they have opened many fronts for the Austrian federal army. I'll come back to your preface: How is the necessary staff provided without a ground defense? How should the same range of services – and I really ask you – be guaranteed without military service if you describe this differently in the preface? And who guarantees – without compulsory military service – in the booklet “Soldat 2012” for all of our safety and stability in Austria? This is, of course, a polemic understatement. There's an alliance, the NATO. Should the SPÖ vocational army really question the freedom of alliance and the neutrality of Austria? [[Abg. Scheibner: Are you already for neutrality?]] Now to the Zilk reform paper: This reform has not even been completed or the transformation has been carried out, so some in this House – also the Federal Minister – are already thinking about reforming the reform. I already believe that this planlessness and this popularity in the area of uncertainty create, insecure, unorthodonal, even powerless. I would like to make a comparison: If “team04”, in the merger of Gendarmerie and police, had been done so, I think the police would no longer be in this form and then crime could no longer be fought that way. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] But now I would like to mention a few details. – The volunteer army, Mr Minister, is in fact a SPÖ professional army, because it is voluntary to go to the police, go to the judicial guard, volunteer to become a teacher, voluntarily to take up every profession. [[Abg. Scheibner: Oh, that's it?- Oh, my God!]] The fact that there is a need for change in the federal army on the other hand is in fact no one, but a year ago, when the evaluation advisory board met, in order to evaluate how the Zilk reform process is going, we were told – above all from your cabinet – that everything is going well, that everything is on track, that this reform paper does not have to be modified. – Yes, everything is really different today! I am convinced that your models or your preferred model can very well be compared to Germany, even with Sweden, even though there are large differences in content. Both countries have, and this is obvious, major and major problems in recruiting their professional soldiers, and this raises questions as to how to resolve future security policies in these two countries, but in these two countries there is much more money for national defence, for the army, for the professional army than in Austria. In addition, Germany – which must also be mentioned – is how many of the 22 countries that do not have military service are in NATO, and the Sweden still have over 100 interception hunters in operation. And so I think that today this unprofessionally and quickly demanded abolition of the military obligation threatens many existing structures in the federal army. It is not really guaranteed that then disaster protection works that soldiers are available to save people when there is flood when an avalanche risk threatens to occur when things and animals are to be protected. It is very much in question by abolishing the obligation of military service without further thought also in the rescue sector, in the auxiliary service and in the old homes, throughout the social field. If you no longer make money available, your professional army cannot guarantee disaster protection as we want it to, and your professional army is, in fact, also a blow at the barracks sites in rural areas and thus a job loss in these areas. And so I mean, we could think the other way round: Before we abolish the military service, we attract them! Let's create an added value for the young men! Let's turn them into disaster protectors, rescuers, helpers, of course also soldiers! Let's get them in the basic defense service to reclaim the compulsory school degree or to complete a necessary apprenticeship or other things, such as the computer driver's license! – These would be models that could also be remembered. Mr Minister, please proceed step by step: First, we agree on the Security Doctrine, on the framework we cross the federal army with security policy, and then we go into detail! And take, Mr. Federal Minister, your very migrated military spokesperson, Stefan Prehauser, as an example in the matter of federal army, who, due to his long experience in his work in general military duty, is also acting for the functionality and for a functioning federal army!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e19022	Mrs Windbüchler-Sushill has now come to speak. I would like to speak on behalf of the Group of the Seven minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e19044	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I personally am really sorry for young men in this debate – young men who are now being convened as part of the European Union. They have grown up at the time of the European Union peace project and certainly feel more than Europeans than national defences. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: How do you get this?]] Fortunately, there is also a youth minister, Mitterlehner, who can certainly confirm that the European idea for young people is an extremely important one. This is about mobility, it is about freedom of training, it is about being part of the European Union. For this reason alone, the general obligation to do so is obsolete. The self-understanding of young people is more than part of the Austrian federal army. It is important to have a free education opportunity. It is important to join forces against climate change. It is important to put in place peaceable, but also socially safe measures. It is important to have a pension system that ensures existence, even in 60 years. – All of this is important for young people and not for serving the weapon. The absurdity – and that is what I say now with all the hardness: the absurdity! – in this debate, civil service is also a priority in the argument for compulsory military service. [[Call the FPÖ:No! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] Especially those who at the time, when the civil service was installed, were so excited about young men who do not want to do the service to the weapon, who refuse the service to the weapon for reasons of peace, for social reasons, are just those who now say: We need civil service, without civil service, the social system is no longer guaranteed! [[Abg. Dr. Graf: They're gonna be ministers now and go hunting!]] The abolition of compulsory military service is a European project that will be abolished. There is a tendency to abolish the obligation to do so. For a long time, it has not been a question of what the SPÖ wants, or of what the Greens want, but of being part of the European Union on the one hand, but also of taking a common approach on the other. In my opinion, the ÖVP is a difficult partner, because it speaks with a split tongue On the one hand, you state that the EDP is the European Party, as an important partner in the European Union, to take a right and important step, but on the other hand, apart from the fact that the trend is clearly heading in this direction, in young men, although they have grown up in the European Union, you are taking a turn for the future by saying young men: [[Call the ÖVP:Ah go!]] We can no longer imagine what the system can look like, so you must continue your service! – This is a robbery of the future! In view of this, I do not understand why the heart of Minister Mitterlehner does not immediately beat faster and he as Minister of Youth does not immediately request: Getting away with this model, where the time of young people is being rejected, to a real opportunity, namely young people, to ensure what the European Union simply represents, namely the peace union! – This is an important point! A referendum is an important part, probably in 2011; a legally binding referendum – no popular poll! – with a clear legal text. That's what we stand for. This referendum will also show whether and how a system can look without obligation. [[Congratulations on Members of the Greens.]] [[Abg. Rädler: I think so too!]] The question is only the: Why is the ÖVP afraid of that, Mr. Cot? [[Abg. Wheeler: We're not!]] There is no reason to be afraid of questioning the population whether it is for or against the abolition of the general obligation to do so. It is possible to have no forced service for young men in Austria. It is also possible to ensure the security of civil service organisations. It is possible to set incentives for just motivated volunteers. The additional recognition of organisations, which are not yet civil service organisations, is as important as an adequate remuneration as an incentive for volunteers and a voluntary year. No area, no social system, no health system, no environment, women or human rights, will be broken if there are no civilians, because there will have to be other models. This is actually all clear – except for the ÖVP. The ÖVP is not clear at all! No matter whether in the education system, in the social system or also in the issue of general military service, I think the ÖVP is just more cross the stable, it is just more blocking. But that would not be necessary. That is why my accusation of the split tongue, namely my accusation of being on the one hand a European party, and on the other hand of saying that the obligation to do so is the only important thing that needs to be preserved. The solutions are there, we can discuss them. – Let us discuss together! To the referendum: a clear yes!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e19161	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Widmann. 6 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e19182	Madam President. High house! The debate on the general obligation to do so, which I have been able to follow in recent days, both in the media and here, is a bit discouraging. Some statements are very unscrupulous. They're just words, they're being blamed for each other. I am a military officer myself, and I say one very clearly at this point: I dissociate myself from so many statements of this association, because both the military and the soldiers are not ex-husbands, are not bulwarks, are not foreigners, are not long-term unemployed who are already doing “valuable service” there! – With such statements, we are also put active military officers in this corner, and I do not let that apply! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] On the one hand, I have a huge problem with the government, which is only so proud of the lack of planning on this issue. I am not surprised, however, because there is no reform in the field of education, in the budget area, anywhere, anywhere. So: Then why would it be different with the Federal Government? Of course, the SPÖ is different from the ÖVP in this area too. I am surprised that the FPÖ is making the cheap Jacob for the ÖVP on this issue, not even presenting concepts and the concrete group is speaking the word. I mean, the book – and this too has already been addressed – of which 12,000 have been distributed to the basic military servants, which contains the commitment to military service, is also such a special piece of the special class. We MEPs have also received this book “Soldat 2011” from the Minister. I would like to read it because I stand on the side of the army, but it also says – and this has not been mentioned in this discussion yet – that the general obligation is guarantee of protection and assistance. Thus, the call of the Minister for 2011 is written to all Members in the main book, almost in the diary. But that's just a Bonmot in this discussion. What we need is a reassurance. What we need is an exception to this debate from the election campaign. What we also need is deideologicalization of thought, free thinking to create new approaches. First of all, I said that in committee, we must clearly define the orders for the German army. Name: Where's the trip going? Is the focus – and that is what I mean – is a central feature of military national defence? Is the disaster aid really still the subject, or do it as the Germans do, we can do it for it Technical assistance? Are there any priorities for combating terrorism, or are foreign operations particularly important to us, or should we also return to a level common in Europe? One thing I say quite consciously and clearly: The question of civil service is not a question of compulsory military service! – It should be said clearly once, because it cannot be said that the social service is at risk. That originally had nothing to do with the military obligation. But the question is: How to solve the problem that results? – We of the BZÖ have positioned the model “citizen’s aid” well. We say that young people who serve other people also need to be properly paid, about 1 300 € gross per month. The problem is that the head or that one does not know what to do above, namely that the security doctor is missing that the strategy is missing that the orientation is missing. There is an old principle that states: “Structure follows Strategy”, first of all the strategy and then the structure, but you, Minister – please, don’t be angry with me! –, do it exactly the other way around! They fill the federal army like a bad doctor, namely: They cut in once and then look at what remains – and then the strategy might come in behind. They sell parts of the plane defense, the artillery, the tanks, the barracks, but if we finally need them, that's still in the stars. The question of compulsory military service in itself – Mr Scheibner has done this very well – is a dash. If one suspends them, one can also quickly reintroduce them if need is given. It is therefore not a matter of principle of achievement. The question of compulsory military service is a question of operational implementation. Therefore, we stand by the BZÖ for a strong professional army with a volunteer military. I am pleased that the SPÖ has accepted this in principle, as a condition of election. One thing I would like to remember: that military service is suspended or abolished throughout Europe – mainly exposed – in Belgium, in the Netherlands, in Poland, in France, in Spain, in Slovenia, in the Czech Republic, in Hungary, in Italy and lastly in Germany. – To do this, I give you a thought sports job. Almost all countries around Austria have already suspended military service, only Austria continues to insist on this old model, which in our opinion is no longer contemporary. Considerable experts – not only the BZÖ – in the economic research institute, the government debt committee or the Court of Auditors, demand appropriate reform measures to reduce the German army – and there are also many who go toward the volunteer army, strong professional army. And now in connection with the Federal Army on youth, which one takes away for at least half a year. I was again at some military receptions this year, and it was possible to hear from the mouth of senior officers, including military commanders, the following: How am I supposed to explain to a ground defense officer that he has to stop holes outside the street?- Oh, my God! Or: What does this have to do with military tasks?- Oh, my God! Now, for six months, a basic defense minister is doing the same, so no longer doing military tasks – and I wonder if this is a service for young people. Ladies and gentlemen, this forced service is to be questioned because it ultimately constitutes a natural tax to the State, which is unfair and causes a tax loss of around €300 million in terms of the economy. In addition: Total costs of the German army around €2 billion; around 40 percent of them are due to the ground defense service. The fast computers here will know: That's €800 million. In total, then, about €1.1 billion would be freed if one were to suspend the military obligation at least. As far as the ÖVP is concerned, I have to say that I believe there is a certain degree of resistance to the ÖVP, because the SPÖ is tactically presupposed on this issue. The ÖVP does not have its own concept, so it remains in line with the obligation of military service, according to the motto: The military service has proved successful over the last 50 years, and that is why it should stay there! – It can’t stay like that, ladies and gentlemen! Dear FPÖ, as an economic party, how do you want to explain this to young people that the economy, the state, loses €300 million in taxes because the young people are forced into the federal army?- Oh, my God! What do you say about the FPÖ, which claims to be a youth party, that people are necessarily used for such services for half a year, with two thirds of them system owners?- Oh, my God! Young people are forced to get any systems that have nothing to do with the actual tasks of the federal army! And where is the FPÖ itself appointed reform party when the blue clone is pasted in Upper Austria: Reforms now, courage to the truth! – However, when it comes to implementing reforms, you are making the wall of the FPÖ of the ÖVP Group! I would like to congratulate you very much on this! [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! What we need is a slender army, a army that meets the security needs of young people – also in line with the economy. That is why we want the BZÖ to involve the population. We have also tabled a deadline request, because we want there to be a public survey on whether to maintain military service in Austria or whether, as we believe from the BZÖ, there should be a strong professional army with a voluntary component. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e19294	Next speaker: Mr Kunasek, with a request for 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e19316	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mr Kappeller, ladies and gentlemen, I am unfortunately against you if you say that the security situation in Austria has not changed in recent years: The security situation has changed, because we have a Minister of Defence Darabos and a Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany Faymann, who, out of pure populism, are risking the security of Austria, and who are not at the risk of the German army and the public in this discussion, which we are holding here today. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] To Klubobmann Cap, who is now no longer in the hall, a sentence: Before you quote our party day decisions from 1997, which we have long taken back under the responsibility of our Federal Party Minister Strache – we have long taken the right path – you would like to quote Federal Minister Darabos, who just a few weeks ago said that the military obligation was grounded in stone, but today is quite different! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Worm.]] – I say quite openly to you: Don't try to distract from your own backsliding policy! We from FPÖ stand for neutrality and not for a NATO accession to Austria, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] A sentence to the ÖVP before I come to the subject: We are going to put forward a motion of censure today and we will call for a secret vote on it. You of the ÖVP today have the opportunity to demonstrate courage – which you showed at the time with your own Minister Lichal – and find that Federal Minister Darabos is obviously overburdened with his task. Today, you from the ÖVP have the opportunity – I cordially invite you – to present a sign in this secret vote, including a security sign in this House. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, such a sign has earned the German army, is now the Federal Minister Darabos, who in the current legislative period here in the House had to make most of his mistrust requests. I do not know whether Federal Minister Darabos would like to go into the history books because of this fact, but today we have the opportunity to place a sign here. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, now to the ongoing discussion – and again: Why are we discussing today even a possible abolition of military service? We are therefore discussing this because a SP champion in the election campaign, for populist reasons, in order to achieve a speedy vote maximization, felt that we had to call into question the obligation to do so. Such motives are reprehensible, but it is even more reprehensible if a Federal Minister sees this electoral campaign as an order to initiate a discussion on the abolition of the obligation to do so here in this House, but above all also on the media. Ladies and gentlemen! Both processes are objectionable, but it is particularly objectionable in your case, Minister of State for Defence, because you have the responsibility for the department, you have the responsibility for the security of Austria, but that you perceive it, which is unfortunately not recognizable for our group. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] [[Federal Minister Mag. Darabos: All right!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this example also shows – I come back to our request – that we are right today with our mistrust request that our findings, which we have been meeting here for months now, that the Federal Minister Darabos is either overwhelmed by his task, first possibility, or, second possibility, that he has not yet arrived spiritually in his office, but still believes that he is serving in the SPÖ Party headquarters as the Federal Managing Director and therefore – I say quite openly – acts as the commander of the Federal Chancellor and Party Chief Faymann, since he has been mentally hanging somewhere in this job, that these findings are not so wrong. Unfortunately, the SPÖ's federal army experts are not present either, with the largest Members of Parliament being Rudas and MEPs, who are always doing a great deal of good for this. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I tell you one thing, Mr Darabos – and you can believe this –: I believe that what you have said here today is that the General Staff was involved in these plannings, but: Everyone wasn't there, and a real leader, namely the commander of the armed forces, wasn't there either! [[Abg. New builder: That's incredible!]] There really is a party policy at the expense of the security of Austria! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, now, like Federal Minister Darabos, but unfortunately also the SPÖ – but I know that there are reasonable forces in this group too – are trying to hold this discussion. On the part of the coalition parties, a few weeks ago a package of savings, a disaster-saving package... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Singer.]] Mr Scheibner nods me benevolently. Companies are dissolved, heavy equipment is sold to discuss the abolition of voluntaryity, without the appropriate conditions, of a rescheduling of the Austrian federal army! All those of you who have enjoyed military training, who may also be sub-officials, know very well that in principle one should initiate such discussions once with an assessment of the situation, and they also know that one does not at all make a security-political husk, but that one should discuss serially. One should also define, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, what the German army's tasks are in the future. I miss such a discussion. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bitch.]] But I miss such a discussion not only in the time of Federal Minister Darabos, but I have missed it for the past few years, even decades. And that is also the reason why the Austrian Federal Army is now in this misguided situation. We liberals say quite clearly: We do not believe in it, Mr. Klubobmann Cap, Federal Minister Darabos, that the volunteers will come to the Federal Army in crowds, but show examples from other countries that this is not the case. The highly praised Sweden has massive difficulties, and we know that about Great Britain. Mr Widmann, this does not have anything to do with the militia we have today, but we are waiting for the quality of the militia to look forward to when this model is implemented. UK is looking for volunteers in prisons – that is fact and reality – and the Belgians too have been having massive difficulties in terms of the quality and application of volunteers since the 1990s – I know this from their own experience of a Bosnia-Hercegovina mission. And that is what we want to spare our Austrian federal army! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We want to bring the skills that we bring into the militia through military service... [[Between call of the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] Mr Ingenieur, compulsory military service brings the capabilities into the militia, and we want to continue to ensure that we have the freedom to do so. Everything else, ladies and gentlemen, is a dream country of security policy, and unfortunately there are some in it: for example, Federal Minister Darabos, Chancellor Faymann, but unfortunately also representatives of SPÖ – with just exceptions. However, I call on you, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, to recognize the reality and to reject this security-political nonsense here today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e19464	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Lap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e19485	Madam President. Mr Darabos! Values Minister at the Government Bank Berlakovich! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! From the political competitors there are always personal attacks on the Minister, and I think these personal attacks have to be stopped, because I do not know any Minister of Defense who has acted with such determination against National Socialist conversions in the federal army. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the FPÖ.]] At the Ulrichsberg meeting, the German army is no longer present, thanks to Minister Darabos. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] I understand that you are laughing here, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ. [[Abg. Singer: He is the Tomb of the Federal Army!]] Minister Darabos leads the German army into society, and these are very important measures. [[Abg. New builder: No idea at all!]] [[President Neugebauer shall take over the chairmanship.]] I understand your grief, gentlemen of the FPÖ. [[Abg. Singer: Were you in the army?]] You are sad because you are not with the population or with the young people with your theme, but the population and the young people are on the side of Minister Darabos. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Everything should remain as it is, is the tenor of words in today's debate. I want everything to stay the way it is. But then it was found that something had to be changed in the current system. We have a minister who is thinking very concretely, namely what demands we need in the defense, which tasks the German army must perform – these are the disaster service, the foreign service – and, above all, how this can be done, namely voluntarily and with a strong military component. This strong military component, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, is an essential contribution to the fact that we are well equipped, well equipped and also anchored in the German army. Minister Darabos is taking new paths. The state defense and the federal army are very important. There are new starting positions and there are also new starting positions. These important discussions must be held seriously, neither with personal differentiations nor with personal contempts, nor with discriminatory statements. There are seven models for discussion. You, ladies and gentlemen of the other parties, did not come up with a single model. [[Abg. New builder: Because there is none!]] It has always been found that this discussion is not necessary and that everything should actually remain the way it is. I'm very sorry. Because Minister Darabos, with his staff, has contributed a lot to putting on the table how different models can look out which strategies they pursue, which costs they cause. And he prefers a model, which he says quite openly. He could also bring himself into this discussion as a moderator. No, he says exactly what model he prefers, namely a model where there is more training, where there is a strong military component, where the tasks of domestic and foreign operations and civil protection are covered, and where there are additional incentives systems in the military field. A new discussion, new proposals to strengthen the state defense in our country and the federal army and to lead to the future. Any such obnoxious and discriminatory comments such as: All of us then come from a shift that we don't want to have anything to do with, as one of the representatives of a military organization meant. The felony towards the Minister also shows that the persistent forces do not want to take new ways and do not want to make improvements in our country, but to continue with the concept, which is very outdated and cannot adapt to new structures, to new circumstances. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to call on you to go into an objective and content discussion on the models put on the table by Mr Darabos; he has also invited you to do so. I would like to ask you to have serious discussions, to have material discussions, because the state defense and the Austrian federal army are far too bad to have a discussion about it with populist or funny people. It is important to discuss the content and the subject matter. Ladies and gentlemen, I know that Minister Darabos is the guarantee that we will work with thought and commitment to the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e19592	Next speaker: Mrs Schittenhelm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e19614	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Yes, there you can see, and the discussion has shown what such a small electoral campaign might do before the election of Vienna. It was thought of at least as a gag. In the meantime, this has become a real wave of uncertainty for the staff of the Austrian Federal Army. In fact, it has not yet been mentioned what this actually means for the men and women who serve in the Federal Government. At the same time, Mr Federal Minister, you are on your way at the rapid pace towards the abolition of general military service, and you are also very fast on the road, including your Federal Chancellor Faymann, when it comes to changing your positions or adopting positions. [[Call the FPÖ: You're right!]] We have already discussed the positions that you represented a few months ago, and that has been said today, since decades, by the Socialists, inviolable positions that have even been grounded in stone for you, Mr. Federal Minister. But since the election of Vienna, the macularity, as the press writes, has been written. [[Abg. Petzner: You're in a coalition! You're always acting like you're opposition party!]] Ladies and gentlemen! If you think that the Zilk Reform Commission has been working intensively with experts from various fields, with specialists, with representatives of all parties for more than three quarters of a year to show new ways of security in Austria, then I am a little surprised that it is possible for three gentlemen to withdraw to the chamber and make plans there without doing what you have actually announced to do, Mr. Federal Minister, namely to carry out the revision of the Security Doctrine and then to talk about the form and organisation of the Federal Force. [[Abg. Dr. Strutz: (favoring) Exactly!]] Mr. Federal Minister, you have been in the "ZiB 2" of 17. January on Mr Wolf's question: What has changed since the time before the Vienna election and the presentation of your models?, replied: It has become much different, and there are new challenges for European security and defence policy. Sweden and Germany have also departed from military service. [[Abg. Scheibner: Who reduced the service from eight to six months?]] I've made the effort and I've been Your security strategy paper looked at. However, I have also read through the 2001 Security Doctrine and have been specifically concerned with and confronted with the results of the Zilk Commission. And here, ladies and gentlemen, all of you, who have been working on it, know that there are no significant differences in the image of threats and risks. Some areas have been deepened or expanded. The principles of defence policy and the abilities and possibilities of the federal army are also almost one with the Zilk reform paper. Let us remember, ladies and gentlemen: As a result of the Zilk reform paper, associations have been dissolved throughout the country, barracks have been closed, and over 3,000 have been closed throughout Germany. Officials of the Austrian Federal Army are no longer active, they are still in the army, but they have no duties that they can fulfil. However, this Zilk reform process is not yet complete, as we all know, and you are now putting one again on it, namely the model of abolishing compulsory military service. This also means reducing the power of the federal army. At the same time, Mr. Federal Minister, your model means the abolition of the military obligation that another 5,000 workers of the Federal Army will be without employment, because where there is no basic military staff training, there is no need for an instructor, it needs less infrastructure, it does not need workshops and kitchens, no sports facilities, no sanity rooms and much more. [[Abg. Dr. Strutz: Exactly!]] As a result, we will not have regionally quickly available soldiers, as has so far been proven in the regions, up to the smallest village. Mr. Federal Minister, I ask you: Return to a serious discussion, to a serious discussion with all the parties here in the house! We, the People's Party, stand for comprehensive national defence, we take the country's security seriously. First of all, we need a security and defence concept, and only then can we talk about the form and organization of our federal army.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e19731	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Walser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e19752	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! High house! Mrs Colleagues, if someone from abroad has heard your speech and has followed this debate, he is extremely difficult to assess who is in the government and who is in opposition. That's it. You're both in a government, you wouldn't have come to that. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Petzner.]] And if the colleague Strutz doesn't know how to shout out loud and what great calls he should make, that also speaks volumes from my point of view. [[Abg. Dr. Strutz: That was a great speech too!]] [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: We don't have such scams as you do!]] Interesting in today's discussion was already the beginning. Klubobmann Strache referred quite massively to the events in February 1934, and then, except for the ÖVP, I think, Members of all political groups have referred to it. February 1934: The federal army is shooting at workers' homes, one of the biggest disasters in the history of our Republic, I would mean. And that was actually the reason and argument for social democracy for decades to bet against the abolition of compulsory military service. The times have changed, and I can understand the argument. [[Call at the FPÖ: Social democracy has changed!]] Fortunately, despite all the perceptible differences between the government parties, we no longer have a state of civil war, and I believe that new times require new situations. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But one aspect, I think, has not changed. One point is still open, which arose during these February struggles, namely the rehabilitation of the victims of justice of the Austrofascist regime. And that's what happened today. Historian Oliver Rathkolb gave an interview in the “Standard”, a key point here in the headline: ‘The Republic shall bear the debt’. [[The speaker holds a “standard” article.]] This is remarkable in so far as we have been promised by the government parties for months, by President Prammer, President Neugebauer: If the historians agree, there's something going on here. Now Professor Rathkolb says that for months the situation has been clear that there has been a recommendation from the historians for months. It is already quite surprising that President Prammer, in a personal conversation with me on 9 May, was in a position to speak to him. December claimed that such a paper did not exist. I would think that if a Oliver Rathkolb could say that a bill is possible by the end of the year, we should act here quickly, and I would ask the government parties to make a proposal here. A symposium is currently taking place at the Juridicum and at the Institute of Contemporary History, where these very effects of the Austrofascist regime are strongly discussed. I hope that the House will not follow the advice of the “Kronen Zeitung”, which the government parties would like to do where it says: No one needs a so-called reprocessing. - Yes, we need them! I should also like to remind you that social democracy would be well advised, two days before the 100. Birthday Bruno Kreiskys, that's the day after tomorrow to finally free him from the taste of the high traitor. We'll give you a chance today. I therefore tabled the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e19846	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e19938	Next speaker: Mr Petzner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e19959	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! When it comes to one thing, it is also relatively difficult for me to know who broke the discussion about why and when, but then it is rather crucial that at the end of the discussion, the best and smartest thing comes out for this country and its people. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That is, I believe, the decisive, ladies and gentlemen. That is why I can also ask for a little more materiality here. For if Mrs Schittenhelm argues her opposition to abolishing the military obligation by saying that we no longer need sanitary facilities in the barracks, I ask you: What is this argument supposed to be? You don’t seriously believe that a professional soldier, unlike a groundman, must never be on the “house ”! Excuse me, a little salopp formulated. Such an argument is really Humbug. We have to deal with this matter objectively and seriously, and if we do so and force the abolition of the obligation to do so before the European context and European developments, as we do from the BZÖ, then we need to highlight two aspects in this discussion. On the one hand, we are concerned with this, and that is the crucial point as regards the future of the federal army, that we have a strong, efficient, effective federal army in the future. That is not the case at present. We stand by this federal army, and this also distinguishes us from the Greens, who have this debate on the abolition of the the obligation to take advantage of the obligation to do so in general, in order to abolish the federal army. On the other hand, we expressly express ourselves. We need and we want and we stand for a strong national defence for our home country Austria. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That is why it is a powerful, effective federal army, a professional army with a voluntary military component. That's the one area. The other area is a very important one, namely the question of the future of civil service and, in this context, the question of how we can compensate in future for the work of the 13 000 civilian servants we currently have. I have already said and repeat this here, that as a civil servant – this connects me with the Federal Minister that I was also a civil servant, but that is the only thing – I am basically glad that this discussion finally also honours the achievements that the thousands of civil servants in Austria provide for society, for social institutions. So far, it has always been the case that civil servants were actually second-class people and were rather smiled. This has now turned out, it is now being discussed about this work, the services of civil servants, and that is positive. The crucial question, however, is to abolish compulsory military service and, of course, civil service, as we can cover this area in the future. We are glad that Federal Minister Hundstorfer has implemented the model of civil assistance developed by Ursula Haubner, as we call it. We believe that covering the need that remains and needs to be covered – it is important to us that the social system works in the future too – can be ensured by a kind of civil assistance or a voluntary social year if a corresponding incentive system is created. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This We have developed incentive system in the form that this voluntary social year is counted on as the pension, that it is recognised as part of vocational training and that it is also credited and rewarded accordingly. If we are honest and hold the discussion honestly, we must say that many aid organizations have used civilians to ensure that they have cheap workers. I believe that this is not a forward-looking one, but that it is also necessary to pay tribute to these services provided by civil servants with this model of civil assistance, which we have developed and which has also been taken over by Minister Hundstorfer in the form. On the question of compulsory military service in general – and I conclude with that – I say that, as a bourgeois liberal force, we put individual freedom, self-reliance, self-determination at the centre of our policy. We are opposed to any state ban policy and we are opposed to a forced service imposed from above, but we say that people must have free choice, and we must give people the freedom to determine their own lives. A quote from the economist Klaus Zimmermann in the “Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung”, who said very aptly for military service: “I’m not sure whether shirt folds and latrine service promote professional competence. To learn discipline, the labour market is the better place." We want young people on the labour market to be successful, to have a good education and to develop into mature individuals, but we are against it, That they are forced to perform a military service that no one needs in today's time.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e20056	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Rosenkranz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e20078	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Encourage young people to do something in their profession: In this context, I also welcome relatives and pupils of the Military Realgymnasium, who have chosen the Federal Army as their profession and also that they are trained there. [[As a result, the Commission has not yet received any comments from the interested parties.]] At the same time, I have to apologize for some very embarrassing expressions that have fallen here as regards the value of the Austrian federal army. [[Call BZÖ: But they do this voluntarily!]] It has already been spoken of as “measuring in stone”, and I do not think that the justice centre was meant for Stein. I think it's much better, it's the rock talk: soft, preferably powdered than lubricants, low shearing effect, water repellent. In addition, a quote from our Minister for Defence of the 2nd Chamber of Commons. July 2010: "The abolition of military service would ultimately also mean an end to military service, i.e. civil service. Aid organisations such as the Red Cross could not then use the personnel necessary for aid operations in the case of Weitem.” [[Hey-run of the Abg. Singer.]] And I'll tell you: This applies equally to fire brigades or other institutions, where I believe that the military service is not the right one for our Republic of Austria, in the form of children's friends and at some carnival parties. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Pendl:... in the administration also...!]] But on the basis of the quotations that were kindly made available to me by the ÖVP, I can say that the Minister of Sport as Minister of Sports should indeed be appropriate, because these slalom arts of the Minister of Sports are certainly useful as a model for our successful Austrian slalom team – but it is not enough for the national defense. Mr Klubobmann Cap said that he did not find this word “commitment” used by the FPÖ. – I may point out: It stands in one for the SPÖ in recent times rather weaker booklets inside, namely in the federal constitution. In fact, in Article 9a, there is next to the compulsory military service, the “service in the federal army, the“ replacement service, ” the “civil service. ” But at the budget, we have already noticed that it is not very far from you with the federal constitution. Mr. Minister Hundstorfer meant – civil service is not so in the foreground, but he has to be mentioned just as: Instead of 13 000, there are 8 000 civilians, and they do the same work that the 13,000 previously have done. I would like this 60 percent clause from him once again when it comes to doing something about administrative reform and officials. There may also be opportunities with 60 percent. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And then the topic: Volunteers prefer duty. We will abolish the duty to tax, with voluntaryness it will be better. The primary schools in Vienna have failed, so we prefer to do it voluntarily to abolish compulsory schooling. And, Mr Walser: Something has changed in history. The federal army is no longer shooting at workers. This has changed. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Walser.]] Recently, the threat scenario has been such that your autonomists, your black block, your unauthorised demonstrators go off on business portals, cars and police. – That’s the threat scenario, and that’s what you have to face.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e20154	Next speaker: Mr Pendl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e20176	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! First of all, I would like to say the following: Hopefully, not too many of these debates have heard, because there can be no talk of reality in far-reaching areas – not even of reality. [[Abg. Petzner: We were very objective!]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: The Minister of State was inaccurate!]] - Yes, yes! At the beginning, however, I really want to thank you very much for the excellent achievements that the fellow Members, the soldiers in the Federal Army, but also the civilians, thank you very much, for, ladies and gentlemen, they really did not deserve this spectacle here. [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, everyone knows that the world has changed in reality, and everyone knows that there is hardly any area of society where there is no great need for reform. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: We also had a crisis!]] [[Abg. Dr. Strutz: Earth is a disc!]] Every minister and head of state looks, if he takes his job seriously, towards the future and sees how to shape our organization for the future in a timely manner. At the beginning of a discussion process, to present such a “Lametta” in the various areas, ladies and gentlemen, security policy is really too important. She really didn't deserve such a discussion level. I believe that we should at least agree on this, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. It would be a really interesting, beautiful and hopefully factual discussion in the next few months. That's what I wish. Everyone should take his position, that is a good thing in a democracy. But from the start of a discussion process, ladies and gentlemen, we do not need to have such a discussion here. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] - Hansl, you don't need to scream that down! Another one in all clarity: We have a mixing system – or do you not know your own structure? We have about 15,000 professional soldiers. [[Abg. Amon: 25,000 we have!]] The militia has been properly pushed back. - You know what Minister did that. I don't need to tell you that. But to the new tasks of the Federal Army, which are, as I admit, very important, especially in terms of security, that is, everything that is connected with terrorism, we cannot send any basic defenses, friends! That's what everyone knows. So down, disarmament of words, in media res and say: Mr Minister, great, seven proposals, we will now be discussing them. We are discussing people in this country and also the organisational structure. Strap You're not so preoccupied with civilians! [[Abg. Petzner: You say that too!]] My support organization has the second most civilian servants. So a clear word – I always said that –: Shut up from before them! They've always been smiled, and we also know who smiled them. However, they do great things. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Petzner.]] It is only once that we need to look at it, Mr Rosenkranz, whether we count something on the year or whether we expect a cut, that is all possible to predict what is known in the meantime. But if we find a way, then civil service should not be allowed to discuss military service, because if we have the means, decent employment relations in the social field, according to collective agreement, then, are not evil to me, it is probably much more in the sense of young people – that is not a question at all. But I'm not saying how hot or how hot I am now, but I'm just saying, This discussion has not been made by the Federal Government, which is far too important for this Republic, nor by the Minister, because he has just presented and said several models to his task: Now we're discussing! I am sure that we will be discussing the structure soon. That is not a question, but I think it is a bit overburdened and partly not worthy of all those involved and those concerned. In fact, we do not give the federal army a good service, nor do the workers in the federal army need it to be discussed in this way, nor the civilians, nor is such a discussion in the sense of the dignity of the house. Security policy is far too serious, I am also saying this in the direction of ÖVP. I'm really inviting you: Let's discuss, let's negotiate! We will certainly bring together a good solution, in the interests of the Austrians and in the interests of our federal army, to which we clearly confess.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e20300	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Ikrath. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e20321	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. Federal Minister! The Federal Ministers! Mr. Pilz has said that mayor Häupl would have delivered you a new stone for your brickwork. Mr Federal Minister, I would like to ask you to be careful that this stone will not be the tombstone for our army. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] I would now also like to ask you from that issue of the "Standard" of 3. Citing September 2010, from which Mr Amon has already read. And, Mr Pendl, since then the world has probably not changed so much. That is now 123 days behind; the world has not become fundamentally different. The Federal Minister said in his own contribution: "In addition, compulsory military service is the necessary basis for the recruitment of professional soldiers. But not only that: A professional force would also mean the end of the militia because it recruits itself from the basic military servants.” It's known that I'm a military officer and I'm in charge of being a committed military officer. What bothers me so much in this whole discussion of the last week – that is addressed to you, Mr Federal Minister, but also to a number of colleagues in this House – and what I think is politically grossly negligent, is that on the one hand, on the one hand, we are constantly talking about the military duty based on the military law, and that we have a constitution, a security doctor and, on the other hand, this military law, which clearly assigns a primary task to the German army, namely the production of military security. On the other hand, we all know very well that the basic defence service is very much in need of reform. And we should also know that a state which commits its citizens to a service also has the task and responsibility to give resources to the citizen, when he takes up the service and willingly gives himself to this service, that if he exceeds the threshold to the barracks, he connects a sense experience with it – and I can say that he should also link a military sense experience with it. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] A state that does not secure this has a problem of being respected by young citizens. Now it is also my opinion that, of course, additional tasks such as disaster protection have enormous importance, no question at all. We've experienced it, and we're glad that there's the army for it. It is also my opinion that civil service has an important role – but it is a replacement service. Two thirds of the young men are called to the army, only one third to the civil service. What I miss decisively in this discussion, Mr Federal Minister, is to first put the question at the beginning of what we want our army to have in the future, and, if we know that, second, to ask what form of organisation is the best and what model of recruitment we need. And after that, it must finally be decided, clear and reliable, how much money, how much budget resources we want and can make available to this army. Any previous military reform has previously failed to ensure that the funds required for it and agreed upon were not available as a result. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] I conclude with a quote that I now want to give you, from a famous Austrian poet, Grillparzer, from the “Brotherwist in Habsburg”: “This is the curse of our noble house: Half-way and half-act By means of half the funds, we should strive to be more tedious. Yes or no, there's no means here." And I expect this from you, Mr Federal Minister, but also from all the others, including my colleagues.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e20383	Next speaker: Mr Wöginger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e20404	Mr President. Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Pendl, we are ready to discuss, we want to discuss, but a discussion cannot look like the Minister responsible is taking the lead. We understand a different discussion, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations and bravado with the ÖVP.]] As civil servants and former civil servants, I do not consider making the issue of military service dependent on civil service. I know that civil service is military service, so it is also written in our Constitution. It must be legitimate, however, ladies and gentlemen, if the question of compulsory military service is put quite openly here, if models are proposed for the replacement of civil service, to clarify these models and to ask a few questions here, because, in my opinion, there are some points in this model. The civil service, which I do not need to stress, has become a very important pillar in the social system in recent years, and we, I believe, all unisono to this important service to people and to society. There is now a model of how civil service should continue – in other words, social service – if military service is to be abolished. One thing I would like to make clear, ladies and gentlemen, also in the European Year of Honorary Office: We're not talking about voluntary social services here, but we're talking about a job model here. 1 300 € says it's a paid job, ladies and gentlemen! We must already be aware of this: That we have hundreds of thousands of volunteers in our rescue and relief organizations, in the cultural associations, in the sports clubs, in the fire brigade, who volunteer and offer this service free of charge for citizenship. [[Abg. Amon: Fire brigade!]] A model with 1 300 €, that's definitely not it, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Krainer:...! That's absurd!]] But there are also a few other approaches that are still too clear. There are still 6 400 social service workers here. However, if you convert to twelve months, we need 9 500. There are 3 000 people missing – people, young people – for this social service. [[Abg. Scheibner: That's not true!]] [[Abg. Petzner: They are not all social...!]] - Yes, Petzner, you can shake your head. There are 3 000 people missing. Furthermore, there is no planning for rescue and aid organisations. There will be 200 in a year and 100 in the next year. What are these organizations doing? Who pays the missing performance? Who's up for that? These questions, ladies and gentlemen, are not solved, and I understand very well Mr Prehauser. He has exactly the same concerns in this famous three-way model, which has been presented as the presence service to continue with the German army. A planning disaster will certainly not be left out here, and therefore it is not reasonable for organisations to implement this model in this way. Ladies and gentlemen, civil service is much more! We are losing honorary ones too! Civil service workers are largely preserved as volunteers. For example, the Red Cross in Upper Austria retains an average of seven years of volunteer service. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Consider also the following: We have also achieved a high level of social competence through civil service, civil service. People often keep us in social professions with a high social competence, and that is important, ladies and gentlemen. You can't put that at risk so easily. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I must also say a few words as a staff representative of the Red Cross Upper Austria. When a rescue agent is hired, he earns €1,600 net according to our collective contract. Today, however, we are talking about 1 300 € gross. – I certainly do not have a wage dumping in my company! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I am surprised, ladies and gentlemen, that this model is being proposed by the SPÖ. I would expect that there will also be an opinion from the ÖGB, because that is pure wage dumping. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Petzner and Mr Scheibner.]] Mr Minister, the motion of censure is not supported by us because we are confessing to this coalition. [[Abg. Strache: But the Minister has already broken the coalition agreement!]] [[Abg. Strache: Coalition break!]] However, there are many questions open in these models, and that is why we expect you to return to a comprehensive security discussion at the conversation table.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e20548	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Jarolim. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e20569	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen ministers! I would just like to say a few words about the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Walser, who in itself has nothing to do with the debate at all and who should obviously be used to start a discussion which has not lost anything here. Mr President, may I remind you of the following: There is an initiative by the President and also by President Neugebauer, according to which a working group and a very high-ranking scientific group was set up under Professor Oliver Rathkolb, who is preparing this subject, with results similar to those of the victims of National Socialism. I am surprised by your attitude, too, because your colleague Steinhauser was at first of all involved in this working group and in the discussion on the procedure. I therefore do not at all understand what this motion for a resolution, which essentially deals with the objectives of the working group, is to be achieved. I see this as populism, which does not serve the cause at all. We will therefore reject him.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e20603	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall come to the vote. The vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Strache, colleagues, on the failure of confidence towards the Federal Minister for Defence and Sport in accordance with Art. 74 para. 1 of the Federal Constitutional Act. There is a request from 20 Members for a secret vote on this motion for a resolution. A secret vote shall be held if decided by the National Council. I therefore begin by voting on the present proposal. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of conducting a secret vote to give a sign. – It does not find a majority. The application is rejected. [[Abg. Strache: Now you would have had the chance!]] We therefore come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Strache, colleagues and colleagues on the failure of confidence towards the Federal Minister of State for Defence and Sport in accordance with Art. 74 para. 1 B-VG. In view of the fact that such a decision is taken by the National Council in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this paragraph. 2 of the provision quoted is necessary for half of the Members to be present, I expressly note it. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of the motion for a reluctance to accept it. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dr. Walser, colleagues, on the rehabilitation of victims of justice of Austrofascism. If you support this motion for a resolution, I would ask for a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. [[17:41:07]] Short debate on a deadline request
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e20666	We now come to hold a brief debate on the request of Members of Parliament to report to the main committee on request 1290/A by Mr Bucher, colleagues and colleagues on the conduct of a popular survey in accordance with Art. 49b B-VG on the maintenance of military service or the replacement by a volunteer army of a period of up to 28 years. ==References== After the end of this debate, the vote will take place on the proposed deadline. We are going into the debate. I draw attention to the fact that according to § 57a para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure no speaker may speak for more than 5 minutes, the first speaker for reasons of 10 minutes. Statements by members of the Federal Government or by State Secretary-General shall not take more than 10 minutes. I call Mr Hagen. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e20707	High house! The following reason is given in the application for a time limit: Mr Bucher, Mr Liste, Mr Scheibner, Mr Colleagues, on the conduct of a popular survey in accordance with Art. 49b Federal Constitutional Act on the maintenance of military service or the replacement by a volunteer army. ==References== Since we already know the game of the government or the government parties that such requests of the opposition, which are meaningful and useful, are always pushed and postponed to the long bank, it is necessary due to the current debate on military duty, this period until the 28. February 2011 and here on this request Ladies and gentlemen, vote. This is the procedure that would be correct and objective. In the application it says, perhaps, to justify it briefly for those who have not read it: ‘In view of the changed security situation in Austria, should the general obligation of military service be suspended and the compulsorily convoyed by a volunteer army be replaced?’ This is to be answered with yes or no. I think that is a simple question that can be supported by everyone. Mr Strache, you spoke about Switzerland earlier. I do not want to go into this debate very much now, but I have to tell you a few things after I was not mentioned in the previous debate. Switzerland is also voting in favour of military service. If you had been with us at the time with the friendship group in Switzerland – there was discussion on the subject. But there was nothing to hear from you in this direction that Switzerland's neutrality would be in danger. And if you had read the EU Treaty – Mr Scheibner has already mentioned this – you would know that neutrality with the EU Treaty is de facto obsolete. Discussions have also been held here again and again on civil service, or civil replacement service, if military service were to fall. Today I have already explained to Minister Hundstorfer – he is here – once in the morning how one could do this to really use a huge army of unemployed people, if they are long-term unemployed, or to raise awareness of the social service. This could be useful in this area. You could also save costs, because the unemployment benefit is paid anyway; perhaps you could create a small bonus for a social service in this area, then you would save a lot of costs and have a reasonable measure there. I know that many people who now have to do with the rescue or are in the rescue field will then also go fast or at least voluntarily to rescue and provide a valuable service to society. So here you could do the right thing. Finally, I would like to stress that the BZÖ stands for a professional army – with a volunteer military, a powerful volunteer military. Mr Darabos, Minister of Defence, has already written a copy of us. In general, his preferred model goes in this direction, but not quite as meaningful as we have proposed. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e20758	Next speaker: Mr Prehauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e20779	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Clear request, clear answer: No, we will not support this request. From my point of view, this would be counterproductive. If one lets the current session take place again, then it is clear: We know that there is a huge need for discussion and that, in the end, a survey of the population may be still open. But to ask the people before we discuss with each other, and to have no answers, I think that this is slightly adventurous. The Social Democratic Party will not be involved. At this point, I would ask you to consider whether you have made a mistake.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e20815	Next speaker: Mr Höfinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e20836	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, I can only join the words of my previous speaker. I have been here in the House for a few years, but I have rarely experienced a debate that goes beyond the heart of the matter. I think we should really focus on this matter in order. First of all, let's look at: What will the security question look like today and in the future? Let us define security in all these areas, which we can choose from and which we will work on in the next few years! That is to say, if we have this knowledge, we are talking about the further tasks that the German army is now taking on: disaster aid and civil service as a replacement service. Let us then discuss with realistic figures the costs that the individual systems cause! Let us think about how we can continue to maintain peacekeeping efforts in the international association! And let us not forget in this discussion that in the event of a threat scenario – and this must not only be a military scenario on the border, it can also be a terrorist – we also need manpower and not just technology and equipment. That's why I'm saying: Now to discuss a popular survey, which I think is premature. Let us first talk about the core tasks, then let us talk about the structures! If we find a common way in this debate, we will pass on this clear information to the citizens, and only at the end of this process will we talk about the referendum! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e20869	Next speaker: Mr Herbert. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e20891	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) High house! The FPÖ will support this deadline application from fundamental considerations. We are and we are in favour of direct democracy, especially when it comes to such important and forward-looking decisions, probably also because the general and public debate has created a very high expectation in the population and we believe that any quick decision-making can only be useful here and will also be very supportive in this House. But – and this is important to me –: Although we support this request for a deadline, we do not support the intention underlying this request for a deadline, namely the suspension of compulsory military service and the further call for the creation of a voluntary army. That's not what we're supposed to have for. We stand for the democratic rules of the game, for direct democracy, but in the matter itself I would like to say that we have quite differentiated approaches. It is also important for me to stress this here. I think there are enough unsolved questions. Especially the military mistake shown by Minister of Defense Darabos in the last hour, in order to describe it, is a way that leads from Austrian neutrality to direct route to NATO and probably does not correspond to the accesses of the Austrian constitution. There are also many unexplained open questions, from the question of human resources, which such a volunteer will probably raise, to the cost question and the unexplained question of disaster protection. The most important question is how civil service continues. A few days ago, there was a statement by the Minister for the Interior who doubted that the 14 000 civilians needed would be on a voluntary basis, which is also an important parameter for our decision-making. Despite these different approaches, we support this proposal for a deadline, as we all prefer living democracy in this House to the living practice of the governmental parties, namely unloved opposition requests in the committees to delay us to an indefinite time, where they will literally “defile” them. In fact, the critical approaches of the opposition parties are not sufficiently and worthy of consideration. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In this sense: Yes, on this request for a deadline, no to abolish the obligation to do so. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e20945	Next speaker: Mrs Windbüchler-Sushill. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e20966	Mr President. This proposal for a deadline will also be accepted by the Greens, so that the parliamentary procedure can simply be initiated, even if we look at the whole matter in a slightly more differentiated way. Again to repeat: People vote yes, legally binding with clear questions, people survey no, because this is less important in the final effect. And toward BZÖ: You should start making clear statements here. On the one hand, national elections, on the other, popular polls – these are two different instruments, quite clearly. A clear statement should also be made as to civil service, because you, Mr Hagen, have said here that long-term unemployed people should also be able to support this voluntary social year. I'm just saying, Voluntary must remain voluntary! There must be no compulsory obligation, regardless of what the voluntary civil service system looks like in the final effect, but it cannot be used there for long-term unemployed people who do not work for health and social services. It can't be!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e21010	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Widmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e21031	Mr President. High house! I say a great thank you to the opposition parties, who support direct democracy in Austria, not only on paper but also in reality. I also note that there can be different views – one can be for military duty, one can be opposed – but I do not note that the SPÖ and ÖVP MEPs have apparently not read the request. In fact, this request concerns a deadline for the application to conduct a popular survey – no longer and no less. If this happens? – Of course, only after preparing the facts, of course only after a discussion in the relevant committees with consultation of experts and stakeholders. [[Abg. Head: Why do we have to decide now?]] That's not in the application. They therefore refuse direct democracy again – and that is a pity.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e21073	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We come to the vote on the request made by Members Bucher, ladies and gentlemen, the main committee for reporting on the motion for a resolution 1290/A by Mrs Bucher, colleagues and colleagues on the conduct of a popular survey in accordance with Art. 49b B-VG on the maintenance of military service or the replacement by a volunteer army of a period of up to 28 years. ==References== If you are in favour of this deadline request, I ask you for a sign of approval. – The request is rejected. I inform you that the establishment of the computer advisory board in the local VII is now taking place immediately. [[17:55:34]] The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e21118	I will resume the negotiations on points 6 to 8 of the agenda. Mrs Mag. Schwentner will speak again. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: It's not there! I've already gone home!]] Next speaker: Mrs Schittenhelm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e21150	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! I am very confident that the revision of the equal treatment law will indeed bear fruit when we talk here about income transparency and the closing of income shears. We know – and this is also the latest report of the Court of Auditors – that there are still differences in income between 15 and 18 percent between men and women in equivalent employment. The Federal Minister has put a good package on the table here, and the Minister for Social Affairs is negotiating with the social partners. Of course, I'm not quite happy with the amount of the penalty of €360 – I'm saying that – but in the end we can say: Yes, it has been worth fighting, because the Council of Ministers' presentation still stood at €1,500. Here I am very grateful to our clubman Karlheinz, who, in his conversation with the economy, worked supportively to reduce this penalty to €360. It is also necessary to understand the economy which, of course, also has the data protection of workers and businesses in mind. The fact is that this income transparency did not come as it was discussed a year ago, that names are announced here, but that industry-related information is announced, so that young people, not only for women, can ask very well: What do I earn in this company in the marketing department, in sales or in production? This could also be an incentive to apply for employment in other companies and perhaps also to change careers. It is also not quite right how often it is colported into the media that the operation cannot be punished. Of course, if income reports are not produced, there will also be penalties for businesses, which has been a little lower. However, I am very much in favour of this equal treatment package and the innovation that we – including the opposition parties – see positively that we are really making the opportunity to close the income shears with this first step, and that is not a bad thing. I'm sure we can continue somethin'. I know that there is unrest here because we have not adopted the European directive on 'level-up', i.e. we have taken out an amendment again. I am also in favour, because one cannot be: that here under the cover of tolerance or in the context of tolerance, the limitation of personal freedom is the same. It can't be – I'm saying this in an example and also in the media – that a host, if she has four rooms to rent and is still one, can't say I'm giving this room to a young mother with a child and not someone else who's standing there. It must be possible for someone who has a private hotel or an inn to decide for himself who to pick up. One should not sacrifice the freedom of the citizen by means of an exuberant tolerance, as it might have been through this directive. That's what I'm standing for. But again: Mrs. Federal Minister, Mr. Federal Minister, I can only say that with this revision of the equal treatment law, we have taken a first important and right step not only in income transparency, but also in the closure of income shears for women.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e21201	Next speaker: Mrs Schenk. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e21222	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Negotiating, fighting and envying – these are the “improvements”, which, in my opinion, brings this novel of the equal treatment law for the Austrian women for whom women are responsible. This is truly no reason to celebrate, truly no milestone, no reason for joy, because this novelle does not bring women any more cents. This novelle closes the salary shears by no millimeter, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] In the course of my remarks, I would also like to make the law-making process happen again, i.e. the state of the new law. Started in October 2010, when this novelle was quietly and secretly decided in the Council of Ministers, it went into the negotiation phase, and it was about to find a committee date. Red and black did not agree on the content. The committee dates have been postponed from time to time, have been cancelled and have not occurred. Even Mr Klubobmann Cap – who may also be listening to me – has been involved in the mediation and has called on the clubs to make a committee appointment during the budget debate, but this has not been achieved, and also because there are great disagreements, great disagreements between the government parties regarding the content of this amendment, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Dr. Cap talks to a club employee.]] These differences have also been shown in the Committee; I can only recall the statements made by the representatives of the government parties. You have passed a law against which you have pronounced yourself. The penalties have now been reduced to €360, but some of the ladies and gentlemen of the government have condemned these penalties and voted against them. The penalties are nevertheless provided for in the law, and the workers are now punished if they – what their right is – talk about their salaries. And we strongly reject that! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] It should be assessed positively that the original extension of discrimination protection in the novelle does not occur. This is the only point that can be assessed positively and which Mr Schittenhelm mentioned earlier. And since I am currently with my colleague, Schittenhelm, I would like to give her a quote from the “standard” of 19. November last year reminds us that it is “not in question at all” that the law, which requires the disclosure of salaries within companies, lays down penalties for workers who are talking about this disclosure report. – Dear colleague Schittenhelm, the punishments are there, the law was decided with your voice! I wonder how you want to argue about this to the population, especially to the female population. Finally, I would like to say that women's equal treatment must not be male discrimination. In this context, I should also like to quote today’s “curies” reporting on the inequality between men and women in ticket rates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e21286	Next speaker: Mrs Csörgits. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e21307	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In contrast to my previous speaker, I am very glad that there will be a revision of the equal treatment law today, because with this innovation we will move a step further towards income disclosure, towards greater justice in the workplace. Why? – Dear ladies and gentlemen, this can easily be explained. We do not have different treatment of men and women due to the equal treatment law and the good work of the trade union in collective agreements. So there is no more open discrimination. The fact is, however, that there are many hidden discriminations in working life: It is therefore necessary to be able to see through disclosure of incomes whether there is hidden discrimination. In many farms where there are works councils, this has already been handled in a very positive way today, and I do not automatically provide any Company that deliberately discriminates against workers. Nevertheless, it has happened in practice and still happens in practice, otherwise we would not have the differences in income as we currently have them. Therefore, this innovation of the equal treatment law is a good, important and correct step in the right direction, and I am very happy about it. What, apart from the disclosure of income differences in businesses, is also included in the law, and in my opinion has been too short in the discussion so far, is the fact that, in future, payment will have to be indicated in the case of job losses. In other words, it must be stated which collective agreement is the true one and whether there is the possibility of overpayments. Also the very, very valued Ladies and gentlemen, it is an important provision, because I know, especially because of my professional experience as a trade unionist, that people, whether men or women applying for a new job, often do not know exactly how high their income is. If there is already a clear definition of what to expect as income in the ads, then discrimination, which has often been existing at the beginning of a service relationship, is also removed. Ladies and gentlemen, I am delighted about the revision of the equal treatment law and am particularly pleased that the Federal Equal Treatment Act is also being amended. I am also pleased that, after tough negotiations, the level of punishment has been reduced. I would like to thank all those who have contributed to the fact that we can adopt the equal treatment law in the present form today, because we are again taking a right step towards more income justice between men and women. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e21355	Next speaker: Mrs Gartelgruber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e21377	Mr President. Minister! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Yeah, now she's here, the novel to the equal treatment law, but I have to say quite honestly that in my opinion more than populism is left. And if you measure the novelle in the grandiose announcements of our woman's ministers a few weeks or months ago, you can see how clear you have failed. The many concessions that one had to make to the economy and to the social partners make these novels only a minimum consensus. However, I would like to say in advance with all my clarity: If there are black sheep among employers who pay unevenly for women and men, this really has to be abolished, because this is, of course, a monsterity and is not justified. However, the new pay-as-you-go scheme is not the appropriate means for this. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The new regulation only produces more administrative burden. This was even criticised by the Court of Auditors in its opinion. In addition, only 41 percent of employees will be covered by this novelle by 2014. Nor does the scheme provide for sanctions for entrepreneurs who do not disclose their salaries. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, and it's even worse: The employees who object to this confidentiality clause are still involved with one Penalty up to 360 € threatened! This is another injustice associated with this novel. That is why we will, of course, support the request made by Mrs Schwentner at a later date, because that should be abolished. In addition, I doubt that in Austria it is at all possible to shave women's and men's salaries over a comb. I have already brought the example of the accountants to the committee and I would like to repeat it, because I think the Minister misunderstanded it at the time. That's why I'm bringing it back. Let's assume two accountants are sitting in an office, desk on a desk. The young man has been working in this farm for 15 years, is 35 years old, the young woman is also 35 years old, has two children, comes to the farm as a beginner and has been working here for five years. The woman, of course, has continued her career, has taken the initiative herself, and I even dare to say that with her commitment and with her commitment, she has made the lack of pre-service times more than bet. But here we have the dilemma of this novel: Theoretically, both do the same work, but collectively, they do not get the same salary. It is now up to the employer to eliminate these injustices. So I wonder, Who do you want to punish here? You are not at all interested in a fair list of income between women and men. That is why you have also rejected my request regarding Statistics Austria, where I asked you to ask for even more parameters so that we can really achieve fair income behaviour in Austria between women's and men's salaries. Many of our outstanding requests, such as the upgrading of part-time or child care periods, are included in the collective contractual advances, or even now, in advance, the parameters of Statistics Austria, you simply reject without examination. We liberals do not want women to be the victims of society. And that's what I'm expecting from you, too: Work for the women in Austria, respond to the needs of the women – and stop provoking dissatisfaction and envy! And please forgive us with such “millstones ” in the future! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e21444	Mrs Heinisch-Hosek is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e21465	Mr President. Mr. Hundstorfer! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Faith You're telling me: Both of us, Mr Hundstorfer and I – and not just us both, we are not alone – are keenly interested in reducing or eliminating injustices in the incomes between men and women. Of course, this is only à la longue and not from today to tomorrow, and we have already tried to present it realistically this morning. These injustices are there, partly with explanations, but some pay inequalities simply cannot be explained. These are 15 to 18 percent that you can no longer explain, except that women are women. I don't want an employer, no employer to assume that he/she wants to keep wages from employees. This has already been said several times today: There is often no proper awareness or knowledge of what individual people really deserve due to their pre-service periods, due to the supplements, due to the overtime performance, due to the remunerations of any kind. I have now talked to some of those who are already producing these income reports, although they do not have the size of the operations that we prescribe in the first step, and they tell me – including many men – that: I was actually not aware of how the wage structure developed in my company or how it is presented! I want to change this and work on it! But allow me to say a little bit about the story very briefly, so that we can't imagine that we had negotiated this novelle easily, almost in the process of passing, and that, hopefully, we will also decide together today. It was a year and a half, starting in May 2009, when a first round took place with the social partners. In the government programme, income transparency, not only this, but also the National Action Plan on equality between women and men on the labour market, is a task over three pages, with not only many rounds of social partners in these one and a half years, but we have developed these 55 measures in the National Action Plan together with over 100 experts in many working groups in many workshops. It was often controversially discussed, but in total, all agreed that the wage differences between men and women should be eliminated. Now we have to carry out a gradual action measure so that we can say at the end of the legislative period: Austria is no longer the last person in the European Union – as is still the case now, because in terms of wage shears between men and women, it is such that gross hourly wages are compared, which is even reported by 25.5 percent – and in this regard it has improved in Austria. Yes, but we also need accompanying measures, colleague Gartelgruber. I'm the last person who wouldn't stand for us to continue funding for childcare immediately. We too will continue to negotiate whether we can already do so this year. There are many measures that need to be accompanied. A novel of the equal treatment law will not help to eliminate these pay differences from today to tomorrow; so naive to believe that is no one here in the House. We, too, obviously do not, but I believe that we have made a big first step with this novelle. I'm not gonna hide saying this is a milestone. No one would have thought a year ago that we were doing it – together with the employer side, with the economy, with all the social partners – that such an obligation would be laid down in the law. The fear on the part of the economy that you wouldn't be careful about sensitive data externally, I don't quite understand. I can't quite understand this, but it's anonymized data. It is the average salary, not single salaries that would be published in any way, but there is a rough overview of what in different categories of use men and women earn on average. Because this has been criticized today: We subtract this; the average annual salaries remain, high from part-time to full-time, so that we really are very good Comparisons can be made. And who can compare? – Works councils, works councils in those areas where there are such. You can see – even now – and have a much more precise list of who deserves what in which group. So it's not just about long Excel files over the entire salary structure of a company. Where there are no works councils or works councils, the employee can keep an eye on the workers – and can just call on the equal treatment attorneys to help. By the way, ladies and gentlemen, it is also true that it is not entirely “without” for the companies if they do not submit the reports, for works councillors can sue this for up to three years afterwards in court. There we will make enough pressure, and it will already be so that this negative “advertising” probably doesn’t want to happen to anyone if he doesn’t report, for there you might believe or assume there is something to hide. In any event, we work together to ensure that all the companies that fall under these income reports and that they fix deficits that appear there – or perhaps not at all – but according to statistics that should actually be the case. Works councils now have a truly effective instrument in their hands, and of course a lot of work, but the representation of workers will also be able to become very active in terms of wage discrimination due to this law. We don't let that go small – and that's not small to talk about either. There is another form of income transparency in France, since no reports need to be made, Mrs Schwentner, that is an error. There are collective agreements to be genderised; sanctions will be required from 2012 onwards. But in Austria it is so that, after Sweden, we are the only ones where mandatory reports need to be made about it. One more word – and then I would like to finish – since Mr Csörgits mentioned that it is good that it is in the future to be given in the case of job tenders, whether it is paid through the collective contract, the collective agreement or the collective agreement. This too is a good guideline. Apart from that, I will present a wage and salary calculator this year – this job has already been awarded – so that you can cross-sectoral, regionally, it is very often different, can provide a good insight into what can be expected when you apply for a man or a woman. That'll help. I think that overall this package is one that we have taken important first steps with. Is there also a drops of wormwood? – Yes: That the penalty of 1 500 € – originally it was 2 160 €, if I may remember – was lowered to 360 €, that's nice, but it's not quite gone. In many years of practice – Minister Hundstorfer has already mentioned this this morning – there are hardly any known cases where these administrative sentences have actually been pronounced, since the obligation of confidentiality has always been respected. Women are not first and foremost interested in telling anyone outside – for example, a newspaper, or anyone – or to put it on Facebook –: I'm a wage-discriminatory person! I think these women are busy looking at the farm, together with works councils, if there are – and if not: alone or with the workforce, with the company, with the management of the company – that these wage differences are fixed. I think it's just a nice piece of work that can work. But the fact is that Austria could have been a pioneer in the field of anti-discrimination. I really regret it It was successful that we could not include sexual orientation, age, belief in the world and religion in this list of state of discrimination, especially as protection of discrimination outside the workplace, which does not mean that we should not immediately continue to work on the fact that everyone in the 21st century really did. These forms of discrimination can also be taken into account at the beginning of the century. In this sense, I am really happy and thank all those who have contributed to the fact that these new laws can be adopted today.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e21583	Next speaker: Mr Obernosterer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e21604	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! On the revision of the equal treatment law: I think in the 21st century. In fact, it should be a matter of course that equal treatment is lived. But it is unfortunately there sometimes and there the case that this will not be implemented – that is why it is necessary to make the necessary laws to do so. In my opinion, it is a matter of course in the broad mass – there is always, of course, where, some black sheep – that men and women also deserve a lot with equal training and work performance. Nevertheless, you also have to say: The merit must also go after performance. If the woman brings more performance, she should earn more if the man brings more performance, he should also earn more. As I said, it's just like that. [[Demonstrative cough of Abg. Oils.]] - Are you cooled, eh? Pass! [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: A cough cramp!]] I would like to say a few words on the subject of discrimination. I quote Mrs. Kerschbaumer from the “Small Newspaper” “You’re too ugly for me as a tenant. [[Abg. Grosz: the poor! She's been swallowing today!]] Should a hoteler continue to be allowed to reject a homosexual couple as guests because of their sexual orientation?’ I don't think that's the subject anymore. We're a tourist country. Whether someone is black or white or no matter what skin color we know everything goes in. [[Abg. May. Schwentner: But then you did not arrive in reality! She looks different!]] We also know that we do not reject anyone because of religion and also because of age. But as I said, We must be careful in the legislation that we do not restrict ourselves to our personal freedom. As a tourist country, we know that we also work target group-oriented. If there is equal treatment by sex or age, it could also be interpreted by law in such a way that it would be legally possible, for example a hoteler of a wellness hotel, a peace oasis that says: We do not have children registered with us because, on the other hand, there are child specialists! to show because of discrimination because he does not take children. [[Abg. May. Schwentner: That's not true! That's wrong!]] As I said, it takes a feeling here. Here you have to look in all directions to cover this. But equal treatment and discrimination stories should be – as I said – in the 21st century. ==References====External links== - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e21724	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Steinhauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e21745	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! It has already been mentioned: In the government template, the protection of discrimination outside the working world was further developed. It should also have been protected from discrimination due to age, belief, religion and sexual orientation. This has turned out to be the operation of the ÖVP. If Mr Schittenhelm comes to the speaker's desk today and says she's on it, I think it's courageous, because the ÖVP is blaming up to the bones with her arguments in the committee. There is no single argument left. Also, what has been mentioned today – and I will come to this point – is not worth the speech. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The first argument of the EIA in the Committee was: If a directive fails in Brussels, this will not be implemented in Austria. That is, every time one fails to enforce one's concern in Brussels, the ÖVP believes that this cannot be regulated by law in Austria. I believe that, ladies and gentlemen, if you make such a policy, you have to make the accusation of political inability. The second argument was: We do not need any protection of discrimination, because that is everything in the Constitution and in fundamental rights. Ladies and gentlemen, this is also easy to disprove: The middle third-party effect of fundamental rights is very narrow. The fact is: Fundamental rights and constitutional rights are directed against the state and do not protect any victim of discrimination. Nothing's left. But the best argument was the argument of an ÖVP member, whom I do not want to mention. It's not about the person, it might have been a lot of ÖVP delegates. He told us the following: He read something in the “Small Newspaper”, namely that discrimination due to age should not now be allowed, and said that: If a hotelier has a children's hotel and a hotel... – I'm afraid he's betrayed. [[Abg. Oils: We already know who it was!]] He's been transferred! [[Rejoicing with the greens.]] If a hotelier has a children's hotel and a hotel, which is, as it were, more designed for quieter guests, this would no longer be possible under this law. Ladies and gentlemen, it is precisely this criticism that is completely empty, because it defines exceptional stocks. In this case, it is stated that there is no discrimination whenever services and goods are designed for a given age group. So a classic, ladies and gentlemen: This Member has not even looked into the law. He obviously wanted to vote because of an article of the “Small Newspaper”. Ladies and gentlemen! It is precisely the Members who are responsible for Parliament having a bad reputation! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The greatest nonsense, however, is the execution – and that is always mentioned – that is authoritarian. Then every law is authoritarian. Then, too, competition law is authoritarian, which prohibits companies from creating cartels due to their market opportunities. No, it's not authoritarian, on the contrary! In Stalinism and fascism, it was common for certain groups of persons to be denied access to services and goods for totally inaccurate reasons. The opposite is the case! In a market economy, important services and goods are organised privately. And it is the task of a modern state to ensure that no one is discriminated against in access to these services and goods for inaccurate reasons. We now have an anti-discrimination right, which discriminates against discrimination itself. If someone is discriminated against because of sex outside the working world, then that is unacceptable. If discrimination is based on sexual orientation, it is permitted. If in a store a sign hangs: We do not serve foreigners!, then it is not permitted under the law – that is also good – but if a poster hangs in a business: We do not serve members of certain religious groups, then it is permitted again in accordance with the law. That's completely unbelievable. I look, ladies and gentlemen, what the ÖVP, the FPÖ and the BZÖ would say if there was a sign in a business: We do not serve Catholics! - Will you say: That's the business owner's freedom, we see all this left behind, you shouldn't overrule it!? – The opposite will be the case! They will run up and down here in Parliament and will demand precise laws against these discriminations. Ladies and gentlemen! Nothing is left of the arguments of the EIA. I don't understand the ÖVP either. Why don't I understand her? First of all, because they are really bad arguments. But also for a very different reason: 99.9 percent of all entrepreneurs in Austria do not discriminate, why? Firstly, there is probably no affinity for discrimination and no interest in it. It doesn't make any sense economically, either, if you can do a business. The question therefore arises: Why does the ÖVP just protect the black sheep? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e21800	Next speaker: Mrs Silhavy. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e21821	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! High house! I would like to refer to Mr Steinhauser's speech: I am also sorry that we had to take the levelling-up out of the template again, because this was necessary for the majority creation. I believe, unlike my colleague from the EIA, that this has nothing to do with the EU directive, but that it is a question of national equal treatment and that sooner or later in this House we must certainly deal with this issue. One thing is clear: There must be no unfounded discrimination. But if you say you have a retirement home, you'll be able to say there, too, that it's tailored to this group. The discussion reminds me a little of the ticket judgment, which is announced today. You can make the rate dependent on income, you can make it make it dependent on social status, you have enough opportunities to shape it, it just must not be discriminatory. I believe that we are all called upon to think about services as they are designed in the future in such a way that they reach the target group they are to achieve, that they are not, however, discriminatory. Return to the original template: Mrs Schwentner, I very much appreciate you, but I have not been able to understand your current argument of the step back at all! You can't assume from a template that's not going to be carried, but we have a legal situation with which we can achieve clear improvements with today's matter. The income reports are an improvement. Now we can say, of course, we all wish we could reach 100 percent. After all, by 2014 it is more than 40 percent of the employees we reach. And it's 15 percent this year. The criminal provisions – and we know that, I believe, all those who deal with them, and I would put that under your control – should have a certain intimidating effect on the outside. But we all know that this de facto will not come to fruition. If you really want to change something, you do it either in-house or you turn to appropriate facilities that may use it. You just can't use it against media, for example. A very important point with regard to job search is the innovation that the collective agreement and the overpayments must be stated. Furthermore, as I believe, the following has not yet been honoured: Finally, there is also an increase in the compensation for damages that we have been fighting for a long time. [[Complementary of the Abg. May. Worm.]] It's not a corner house, it's a step forward. I am therefore very, very sorry if you are now trying, so to speak, to describe these progress as a step backwards, because that is de facto not true. We will all see each other and, I believe, we will be able to prove that the damage compensation de facto is not at all achievable. Of course, it would be more beautiful if there was no there – I open it – but it is also up to us to put him as a terror and as a rod in the window we know is not going to wear, or to say: There are, however, but essentially this will not hinder success and progress. I would really ask you to reconsider. In the sense of finding a majority – I must say so – we must stand by what has been agreed. I would rather, too, we could decide on this matter without this beauty spot. That's what I'm saying quite openly. It does not, however, have this extent in Weitem, which you refer to here and which you want to hit political change here. So, in the sense of women, I would really ask you: Let us leave the church in the village and recognize progress as such!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e21892	Next speaker: Mr Oellinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e21913	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! I'm astounded at one thing. We are discussing equal treatment and anti-discrimination, and then a Member of Parliament is going to speak and says: Well, there's a lot to talk about, but first of all there's in 21. By the end of the century, there is no discrimination at all, and the second is that benefits must be paid, so in the case of salary, the benefit is counted. What he did not add so clearly, but what makes sense only in this context is: If the performance between men and women is different, then different payments must also be paid. I am inconceivable that, in the face of a discussion on equal treatment here in this House, we can still hear this from the speaker's desk, even from someone who says he's in the 21st century. ==References== [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr. Obernosterer, you are not even in the 20th century. Arrived in the 19th century! - That's the first one. Second: I would like to support Mrs Schittenhelm – and I do not see her right now – on the one hand very much in what she has said, but on the other hand I would ask not only to have a moderate influence on my colleague, Mr Obernoster, but also to take up what she has said to us. [[Abg. Schittenhelm gives a handsign between the bank rows]] That's what gives me to think. Name: There is actually no one – so far I have heard, except perhaps the colleague Obernosterer – who says that this punishment, which exists for workers, is justified. There is only the economy, the economy is for that. Yes, please: Who's the economy? [[Abg. The social partners!]] The economy is also those who have provided us with these different wages and incomes. They obviously have an interest in it, at least part of it. If it's not the economy, we'll reduce it to certain men in the economy. Don't worry about it. In any case, the differences in income that exist have not fallen from heaven, but they are the result of concrete policy of power at work. On the other hand, if you want to do something, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, then certainly not by not talking about it by forbidding speaking about it. Because one thing is clear: If this income report is at all effective – which we do not yet know, but which is not a criterion to reject it, no question – if this income report can show effect, then only by speaking publicly about it by making differences in income, whether in the company or outside of the holding, public, and certainly not by not talking or only in an orderly framework, where the employee may talk to the works council about it and trust it, that he/she feels limited or, as it were, disadvantaged in income. One thing is certain, that many of the points you have tried here are in principle good. But sometimes the opposite can come out well, and that is well meant. That's where you galoped. A criminal threat to workers or to people talking about the income report is really the most absolutely counterproductive thing that can happen here. This will destroy the effect of the income report, which is now limited only to a particular group. I would strongly advise you that you remain in your opinion, whether it is Mrs Schittenhelm's opinion or those of SPÖ members who reject all of this, up to the Minister of the Interior, and then decide to do so. Yes, what Parliament do we actually live in?
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e21973	Next speaker: Madam President, I should like to thank you for your support. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e21994	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! This revision of the equal treatment law can be seen, even if the opposition is, for different reasons and differently, poorly spoken and rejected by this law. We believe that this is a good way forward. There are very few areas in life in which I take the United States of America as an example. The incompetent relationship that the Americans have with income, which is a relationship that is rather characterized by admiration and less envy, I would sometimes wish with us. [[Abg. May. Kogler: They even disclose the party donations!]] Then, perhaps, negotiations on the disclosure of salaries would not be quite as tough. I believe and am firmly convinced that disclosure, transparency of salaries in businesses will also ensure that the subject is dealt with a little less from the debate on envy. The second point that I would like to take out and which no one has yet addressed is the improved protection of discrimination in the area of the Federal Disability Equality Act. If you have experienced as I have experienced that you are going to a restaurant with a group of partially very severely disabled people, if you have experienced that the guests then feel disturbed by the people with disabilities, if you have experienced that the staff will then come and do not ask you in a relatively uncomplicated way, but ask you to leave the place and if possible no longer return, then you know: This is an area in which it was urgently necessary to improve the protection of discrimination also for nearby staff. That is why we are also in a good way in this area with this law. Mrs Bundesminister, I would like to thank you very much for this!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e22029	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Schwentner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e22050	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! - Late, but still! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Late, but still!]] The one minute I'm going to get back and bring in the announced amendment. We will give you once again the opportunity to condemn the criminal clause. [[Quoted print version removed]] We call for a vote to be taken on this matter. I would like to make a second request, namely for Mr Steinhauser. Motion for a resolution by Mr Magnette. Steinhauser, colleagues on the possibility of an association action The National Council wants to decide: The Federal Minister for Women's Affairs and Public Service is asked to forward a bill to the National Council, according to which in the infringement of III. Part of the Equal Treatment Act for Access to and Supply of Goods and Services by Discriminating Use of Terms and Conditions, Public Announcements and Hangouts, the right to waive discrimination can also be asserted by the Law to legitimate organizations or associations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e22108	Both the amendment and the motion for a resolution are under negotiation. The two applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e22221	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Cortolezis defeat. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e22244	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Austria has one of the best labour laws in this world. All the experts confirm this. Austria has one of the best functioning social partners. The result of this good social partnership is also this law, because the Austrian economy is committed to a partnership: a partnership between employers and employees. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We do not want a society of envy, but we want to work together in the sense of international and national competitiveness. It's not enemy images that help us, but the one with each other. Where there are structural disadvantages of women and men, they are to be eliminated. If this law is another building block for it, then it deserves our support. However, it is far more important to us that the career development of women and men in the company is driven forward, that the competitiveness of businesses is changed and improved by investing in research and development, because then we can better balance sectoral and collective inequalities by overall achieving better value added for women and for men. After the Karenz can re-enter, further training measures can already be carried out in the Karenz, improved advice of the AMS, improved advice of the Chamber of Workers and the Works Council: These are measures that can help women in the sense of empowerment to self-determine their rights. Let's give them the chance, but let's not exaggerate by trying to speak something that isn't. Inequality is often structural. [[Calls to the Greens.]] We need appropriate education and consultation measures in order to get rid of this systematically. The law helps, but we have many building blocks to help us reduce inequality.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e22294	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Fuhrmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e22315	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! I am actually a little surprised at how little confidence Mr Steinhauser has in the activities of the European Parliament or also of the European Council, because he has already declared the directive under discussion to be dead, which is not the case. As in Austria, where we often discuss legislation for a very long time, it is now the case that there is no agreement in the European Parliament on this directive on discrimination protection. There is probably also the issue of sexual orientation, age and religion, for which there are also concerns and objections by various target groups. I assume that you, just as many other Members, have received letters and e-mails in this regard, which not only warn you of taking up these points in Austria – wherever we have said – that is why we should take the time to discuss this – but simply express the concern that it is here at a preliminary hearing. I would like to ask the Commissioner whether the Commission is prepared to take the necessary steps to ensure that the Community is able to take a more effective approach to the problem of discrimination. I am in favour of showing where discrimination is taking place everywhere, and in Austria we should continue to devote ourselves to this issue. Nevertheless, the European Council's decision on this directive also has an impact on Austria. I think that before we decide on things that we should then reverse, we will do so together. A sentence to this novel: I believe that the transparency which is being set in motion here for the first time should not lead to a debate of envy – not at all – but rather to pro futuro, when it comes to wage negotiations, to ensure that it is not at all a matter of discrimination against women. This is a real and important step towards the improvement of women in the labour market.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e22357	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall come to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, the vote on the draft federal law, which amends the equal treatment law, the law on the equal treatment commission and the equal treatment attorneyship, the disability regulation and the Federal Disability Equality Act, takes place in 1047 of the Supplements. The Members of Parliament have Magnificence here. Mr Schwentner, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an amendment. First of all, I shall vote on the parts affected by this amendment and then on the remaining parts of the draft law, including title and receipt. Deputies Mag. Mr Schwentner, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, we have tabled a motion for an amendment which is of a kind. 1 Z 8. The vote has been taken on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of As this request was made by 20 Members, the vote must be taken. That is why we are doing so. The votes to be used are in the House of Deputies and bear the name of the Members as well as the name “Yes” – these are the grey ballots – or “No” – which are the pink ballots. Only those official votes can be used for the vote. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Members are called upon to put the vote in the votes cast. I would like to ask those Members who are in favour of the amendment tabled by the honourable Member. Schwentner, ladies and gentlemen, vote in favour of putting “No” vote in the mood. I now ask the author, Mrs Mag. Lohfeyer to start with the name call; Mrs Franz will replace them later.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e22438	The vote will end. The members of the House responsible for this task will now make the number of votes under the supervision of the experts. I am interrupting the session for this purpose for a few minutes. The sitting was suspended.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e22476	I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote. Members cast: 166; of which ‘Yes’ votes: 63, No votes: 103. The amendment tabled by the honourable Member, Mr Mag. So Schwentner, ladies and gentlemen, is rejected. According to § 66 para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure, the names of the Members shall be included in the Stenographic Protocol, indicating their voting behaviour. Members voted in ‘Yes’: Brosz Dieter, Brunner Christiane, Bucher Josef; Deimek, Dolinschek; Gartelgruber, Glavischnig-Piesczek, Graf, Grosz Gerald, Grünewald; Hackl Heinz-Peter, Hagen, Haider, Haubner Ursula, Herbert Werner, Höbart Christian, Huber Gerhard, Hübner Johannes; Jannach, jury; Karlsböck, Kitzmüller, Kogler, Königshofer, Korun; Lausch, Lichtenecker, Linder, Lugar Robert; Markowitz, Mayerhofer, Moser, Mühlberghuber, Musiol; Neubauer Werner; Oils; Petzner, Pirklhuber, Podgorschek; Riemer, Rosary; Treasure, gift, Schwentner, Spadiut, Stadler Ewald, Stefan, Steinhauser, Strache, Strutz; themesl; Inland waterways; Van der Bellen, Vilimsky, Vock; Walser, Westenthaler, Widmann Rainer, Windbüchler-Sushill, Windholz, Winter; Singer, Zinggl. Members voted with ‘No’: Amon, Aubauer, Auer Joseph, Bartenstein, Bayr, Becher, Binder-Maier, Buchmayr; Cap, Cortolezis scraper, Csörgits; Donabauer Karl, Donnerbauer Heribert, Transmitter; Eßl; Fazekas, Franz, Fuhrmann, Fürntrath-Moretti; Gahr, Gartlehner, Gaßner, Gessl-Ranftl, Glaser, Grillitsch, Großruck; Haberzettl, Hakl Elisabeth, Hakl Karin, Haubner Peter, Hechtl, Heinzl, Hell, Höfinger, Hellerer, Hörl, Hornek, Huainigg; Ikrath; Jarolim; Chapel, chapel, Katzian, cuckoo, church gater, köfer, Königsberger-Ludwig, head, carriage, crane, herbs, crystal, kuntzl, kuzdas; Lapp, Lettenbichler, Lipitsch, Lohfeyer, Lueger Angela; Maier Ferdinand, Maier Johann, Matznetter, Mayer Elmar, Mayer Peter, Molterer, Muttonen; Neugebauer Fritz; Oberhauser, Obernosterer; Pack, Pendl, Plassnik, Plessl, Prammer, Praßl, Preiner, Prince; Rädler Johann, Rasinger, Riepl, Rudas; Sacher, Schickhofer, Schitzenhelm, Schmielenschlager, Schönegger Bernd, Schönpass Rosemarie, Schopf, Schultes, Schüssel, Silhavy, Singer, Spindelberger, Stauber Peter, Steibl Ridi Maria, Steindl Konrad, Steßl-Mühlbachbacher, Stummvoll; Tamandl; Wenninger, Wittmann Peter, Wöinger, Worm.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e22657	We are in the voting process; I ask you to take your place. I therefore come to the vote on Rule. 1 Z 8 as amended by the Committee's report. I would ask those Members of the House who advocate a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. This means that we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. Who is for this, I am looking for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who also support this draft law at third reading, in order to give a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The draft was therefore adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Members. Steinhauser, colleagues and colleagues on the possibility of an association action. Whoever is in favour of this motion for a resolution, I would ask for a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall vote on the draft federal law amending the Federal Equal Treatment Act, together with the title and receipt in 1048 of the Supplements, taking into account the correction of the print error made by the rapporteur. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this draft to be a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall immediately reach the third reading. If you also agree with this draft law at third reading, I would ask for a sign on this point. - That's the majority. The draft was therefore adopted at third reading. We come to the vote on the request from the Committee on Equal Opportunities to take note of its report 1049 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. [[18:58:25]] 9. Point Report by the Committee on Equal Opportunities on Amendment No 1372/A(E) by Mr Martina Schenk, colleague and colleagues on the safeguarding of women's opportunities in the labour market 50plus (1050 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e22756	We're now on the 9th. Agenda item. Mrs Mühlberghuber is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e22782	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This motion for a resolution has been rejected in the SPÖ and ÖVP equal treatment committees. The substance of this request is: The Federal Minister is invited to make the focus in the government programme on supporting women 50plus to ensure opportunities for the labour market by creating an explicit catalogue of measures. Ladies and gentlemen, just 50plus women have it very, very difficult in the labour market. Unfortunately, women around the 50 lose God’s place again and again. The women of this age group, who are looking for jobs, are particularly difficult to find a job, because many companies say – it is usually said by the flower – that they are too expensive. It is also necessary to support such women. We must also support women who want to get back into work after child rearing. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Or many women who have been at home with the children who have been in need of care will later, after 15, 20 years, want to get back into work – we simply need to support such women. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We also need to support divorced women who cannot live by the maintenance alone, because this target group finds a job again very, very difficult. [[President Dr. Graf takes over the chairmanship.]] Ladies and gentlemen! According to the government programme, women are to be specifically promoted 50plus. But has done so far very, very little to nothing. The question is why the need for a focus on this target group has been included in the government programme! This is only a catalogue of measures. – If even a catalogue of measures is rejected, where does this lead to? - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e22843	Mrs Binder-Maier spoke. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e22865	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The target group of this motion for a resolution is women over 50, a group that in fact often has problems in the working world, although these women, I would say, are often in the best living and living situation at that time. Ladies and gentlemen, this is an important issue. Mrs Mühlberghuber, there is, of course, a wealth of initiatives in connection with the Ministry of Social Affairs, on the initiative of the Minister of Women and the AMS, for example, the 50-year initiative plus in Lower Austria, employment projects such as the Unida in Amstetten, labour market policy women's advisory services and programmes such as “Come Back” and “Fit2Work”, as well as many other topics and initiatives to give women opportunities, and on the other hand, to allow women to continue on the labour market. In addition, some facts and facts: 314 244 women over 50 are currently employed. The unemployment rate is more than 6 percent, and the AMS funding budget for this target group is € 51.4 million. I am convinced that this to continue these support programmes. That is why we believe that this motion for a resolution has been completed. One thing is very important to me, ladies and gentlemen: We must not release employers from responsibility. You have pointed out that Mrs Colleague: too old – too expensive, and I think these companies “philosophie” have nothing to do with a high moral responsibility towards women workers. We also need to work to ensure that women in this age group continue to be able to stand on the labour market.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e22904	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Schwentner speaking. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e22925	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We have already found in the Committee that we are happy to agree to the request. This morning we discussed current figures and current labour market policies in the current hour. This is also a supplement. In the case of people over 50, both men and women, there is an increase of 1 percent. This is probably very symptomatic. Therefore, we also believe that it would be necessary to put in place very specific measures for women in the labour market when starting from the chapter on equal treatment. Unfortunately, there is no specific measure on women over 50 throughout the action catalogue, which is part of the National Action Plan. That is why we feel it is very important to support the proposal. In addition, the following points are added: We know that women have a longer and different history of employment, very often have interrupted working lives, even today. There are also new numbers when we are already talking about numbers. As far as part-time and full-time employment is concerned – and this also concerns the careers of women later, when they come to an age when they are being mistakenly hard to get a new job – it is apparent that the numbers of women have fallen during the full-time period and, on the other hand, the numbers of women have increased in part-time. I consider this to be quite alarming and believe – because women are long out of work because they have children or care for families – that there is a great deal that needs to be done in terms of health promotion. We have just received a request from the Committee for burn-out. In this context, however, I am also referring to all the measures relating to the extension of childcare, but also to the facilitation of family care. All of this concerns women. It is therefore necessary to include this chapter in the catalogue of measures. That's why we like to support it.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e22959	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Aubauer. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e22980	Mr President. Mrs Frauenminister! High house! I'll give my previous speakers a hand. The fact is: There are massive barriers for women from 50 on the labour market. But the question is: How can Let's get these obstacles out of the way? I do not think that a request to the Minister for Women's Affairs, as provided for in this motion, should be made to me. What do we need? Current: Now there's a big chance. Current situation: Older unemployed people – and many of them are women – must retire at the earliest possible time. If they become unemployed and have a pension claim, it says: Get off at the pension! The Constitutional Court has now partially repealed this provision this week. The National Council, that is, all of us, must fix this law. What's this repair supposed to look like? – But only in such a way that unemployment may not automatically lead to early retirement. If you are cancelled shortly before the pension, you must have a job and not be transferred to the pension. Second important construction site: Women must no longer be sent to pension by 60. It can't be that women in Austria have to sue in court if they want to work. I expressly say “will” because this is about voluntaryity and not about compulsion. Women need the choice: Either go to pension or stay in the job. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Because it is always said that there would be no jobs for women from 50 onwards, let us look at the economic forecasts! The economy will still urgently need these women at the best age. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e23040	As a provisional last item on the agenda, Mrs Schenk has spoken. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e23062	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The speakers of the government groups have here launched an attempt to justify why they did not agree to this request in the committee and why they do not do what is set out in the government programme on page 151, namely to implement a catalogue of measures for women 50plus. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It's too little if you're pushing the problem to the AMS when you're trying to hide women with pseudo-trainings and tricks, that doesn't give women 50plus in Austria! I should also like to remind you that you are doing serious damage not only to the women concerned but also to the Austrian labour market. If we look at demographic developments, then we note that women are already 50plus a very large group, and in the near future they will be the largest group. This problem needs to be addressed, and a catalogue of measures in this respect must be prepared by you, according to the government programme. In this context, I would like to remind you once again how much money is spent on campaigns: €646,000 are budgeted in the women’s budget for the campaign “Real Men Go in Karenz”. What this campaign will bring, we can think of it – I don't think much! But for women there are 50plus – surprise! – zero Euro budget, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to ask you to implement the announcements you made in the government programme here too, namely, finally, to produce the catalogue of measures for women 50plus. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Finally, I should like to thank the opposition parties, namely for their support in the Committee and for the benevolent words here from the speaker's desk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e23122	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We are now voting on the request of the Committee on Equal Opportunities to take note of its report 1050 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give your consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. [[19:11:27]] 10. Point Report of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry on the Government template (896, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act establishing a Plant Protection Act 2011 and a Plant Protection Act 2011 (Agricultural Change Act 2010) (1034 d.b.) 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry on Amendment 135/A by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Dr. Wolfgang Pirklhuber, colleagues on a Federal Act amending the 1992 Agricultural Law (1035 d.b.) 12. Point Report of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry on Amendment No 578/A by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Dr. Wolfgang Pirklhuber, colleagues on a Federal Act amending the 1992 AMA Act (1036 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e23192	We now come to points 10 to 12 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mr Linder spoke. Speaking time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e23220	Mr President. Minister! Dear ladies, ladies and gentlemen! The phytosanitary law and the phytosanitary law are two good laws on and on, because they help us to maintain our drinking water quality and the high quality of agricultural products in Austria. However, they also help farmers to continue to deliver really excellent food to consumers. Nevertheless, it is a law which for us means new conditions, new bureaucracy and administrative activity. It does not help to secure the survival of agriculture, but it also does not help us to protect from cheap products which, as we have read today, flood our market, and our high quality is not honoured by the price. I am also somewhat sorry that requests from the opposition, which, for example – we are still discussing this today – demand soil-dependent animal husbandry or confirm a genuine quality mark of genetic engineering freedom, are always rejected and not accepted by the government parties. This also applies to the demand from us liberals for a funding limit of € 50 000. I believe that this would be one thing that would really show the small farmers that they have a chance to continue after 2013 to ensure that they have the same support after 2013. But unfortunately, when it comes to these things, we encounter deaf ears in the government parties. [[Abg. Hornek: What does the sheep say about it?]] My dear colleague, I think you as a farmer should think differently about it and think about what you are saying about it. – Again: I think with 50 000 € Upper limit we would be well served, because then we really are these big businesses that abcash... – No, he doesn't get 50 000 €, he's below, 100 percent, you know that exactly! [[Abg. Hornek: Who?]] The only thing that's been was the shady work-up. I don't think that's the way it should go! That's, I think, the wrong way when we go! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Again: I believe that it is much more useful to the small farms... – I know, Mr. colleague, your desire is always to promote, protect and help the big ones and not to need the small farmers. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Eßl.]] That's why I'm saying: It would be wonderful if we could at least achieve something with you here in order to protect and keep the small-structured agriculture, which also guarantees quality and which always delivers excellent products. Instead, we get requests from the government parties that bring us more work that brings us more administration and does not help us when it comes to giving the small farmers protection and security beyond 2013.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e23292	Next, Mr Grillitsch. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e23313	Deputies! Federal Minister! I don't know what law Mr Linder has now spoken, because this Agro-Law Change Act and, subsequently, the new Plant Protection Act 2011 actually bring cost reduction and safety – for farmers, but also for consumers, ladies and gentlemen. I believe that this is very essential, just after a year like the past, where farmers had income losses of 28 percent, where total income fell, but at the same time the costs for the production of healthy food have increased. For example, the plant protection products from 2008 to 2009 became more expensive by 9 percent. It is therefore important that this innovation allows farmers to benefit from the cost advantages and In order to reduce the exploding operating costs, ladies and gentlemen. That is essential to this law! That is why I am very grateful to our Federal Minister for the fact that we can do this because, in addition to facilitating the use of plant protection products for farmers, it also eliminates double and multi-tracks. It is therefore in fact an administrative simplification, Mr Linder. Read the law quickly again, perhaps you can agree to the law then! The whole is also linked to training and training for farmers, because this is not so easy, one cannot arbitrarily deal with plant protection products. That is, the seller must inform the buyer accordingly about the plant protection product he buys. In addition to these measures, farmers must also make special training so that they can also use the plant protection products in their farms, in the fields. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Linder.]] – It is important to make this training because the safety for humans, for animals and for the environment brings, Mr Linder. What's bad about it? It is, I believe, a really good law, because not only the farmers benefit from it. It brings security not only to farmers but also to consumers. In addition to monitoring the placing on the market and an obligation to keep records, it is very important that it also comes to restricting active substances with particularly negative properties. Thus, we contribute significantly to environmentally sound production. Finally, ladies and gentlemen: This new law is a good law – for farmers, for the environment and for the health of consumers.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e23379	Mr Pirklhuber spoke next. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e23401	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Grillitsch, the law is indeed quite interesting, passable. Why? – Because it is a implementation of an EU regulation which in some essential areas, I would say, ultimately reflects the intentions of European citizens. In a concrete point, this EU regulation is very, very exciting. It requires Member States to present and develop a national action plan to reduce the use of pesticides by 2012. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the beginning of the exit from the chemical-pesticide-agriculture, which is actually an opportunity in this law. I would therefore like to make the following request at the outset: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is a first proposal, so to speak, a framework proposal for the development of a national action plan to reduce pesticides. Article 14 of the EU Directive explicitly provides for this. One first question to you, Mr Federal Minister – you will also comment in the context of this debate – is: How will you proceed? What measures will you propose? My request to the SPÖ and ÖVP parties is, of course, to join our resolution, so as to provide the Minister with a framework in which to develop this National Action Plan. That would be very urgent. Why? – The Green Report clearly states: We have not had a reduction in pesticides in Austria for years. In the last year, 2009, we used 3 531 tonnes of active substance in Austria, which is still without direct imports, because they are not included in the statistics. So, please, that's not a reduction. We had about the same amount in the years 2005, 2006 and 2007, a little less even. Only in 2008 have we used more, and compared to 2008 it is a reduction, but on average we have remained at the same level. - So far. You also have a regulatory authority through this law, and we will look very closely at you, Minister of the Federal Government, whether you will ensure, in the implementation, the collection of the establishments, the recording of those commercial activities that are carried out through accounting, on Internet trade, that in the future also those establishments which do not currently appear in the statistics will be included. Then I would like to address the two requests we have made, which are being rejected by you today, but which we have discussed for a long time, namely the amendment of the Agriculture Act, in order to define organic farming as a guiding principle, At the same time, we request that non-genotechnic agriculture be included in the Agriculture Act in order to protect biodiversity. Ladies and gentlemen, that would be environmental policy and agricultural policy, that would be a real synergy. But this minister has not yet set up an initiative to operate climate change offensively in the agricultural policy. That would be the extension of organic farming. What's he doing? – In 2009 he ordered the entry stop in organic farming. Mr Federal Minister, it still applies: You didn't convince us! They are urgently urged to take a step out of this defensive, to come out of the Winkerl and to make an offensive policy for organic farming in Austria. The second is related to that. The AMA law does not ensure that all contributions that the organic farmers are currently making are actually used for biomarketing. That too is very, very bad. For these reasons, I find it very worrying and incomprehensible that the SPÖ also does not agree with these requests. At the ÖVP, I'm not so surprised. I am more surprised with you, for example, when I look at my colleagues, Mr Maier. [[towards SPÖ]] Otherwise, they are always open to consumer interests. It would have been good if we had been able to negotiate one thing or another together. Unfortunately, you won't do that unless you change your mind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e23508	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e23575	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Maier. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e23597	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Pirklhuber, I do not change my mind in principle and do what is possible in a coalition. This law on which we will be today shows trains of cooperation. It is not just a question of implementing a European act; I would like to stress that. I refer in particular to § 14, which concerns the national action plans and the National Action Plan on Plant Protection Resources, where we have succeeded in negotiating together to ensure that the preparation of the National Action Plan and the National Action Plans, taking into account § 2 para. 2................................................................................................................................ [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: That's federal matter now, yes!]] Mr Pirklhuber, which means that coordination for this National Action Plan is the first time in the League. This is the very big challenge for all of us! We know what problems there are in the field of control if there is both a competence of the countries and a competence of the federal government. The German colleagues are now experiencing this in the issue of dioxin, and they have now decided, and it is quite clear that the countries are giving skills in favour of the federal government. That will also be a discussion with us. In my opinion, it must be managed, for it cannot be said that in times of global trade flows controls are still taking place in a way that is appropriate for a national economy that has once existed. If we do not respond to the new situation, there will always be such scandals. Therefore – and we have already discussed this internally – it will be necessary to create clear competences. In my opinion, the competences should lie with the Federation. High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! On the comments of Mr Linder there is also another point: There is no red tape and no red tape. It's a different law! This law deals with the structure of the authorities, the control of plant protection products, the activities of the supervisory bodies and the coordination. The decisive thing for farmers is that additional standards are provided for in order to protect them, and this is absolutely necessary. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Overall, this law is a real step towards other standards in the agricultural sector, and I can really ask you to agree to this bill.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e23649	The next item is the speech by Mr Spadiut. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e23671	Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We are discussing the Plant Protection Act, to which we will agree, because it is an EU regulation. We discuss freedom of genetic engineering, we discuss labelling requirements, we discuss organic farming. At the same time, there has been the largest food scandal in Germany for several years. [[Abg. May. Johann Maier: Feed scandal, not food scandal!]] Don't talk! The sows are also contaminated! What's the Sau? A feed? - For man, yes. In Germany there are still some questions open, Minister. How could this feed have been placed on the market? Why does it take so long for the plants to be locked? The delivery certificates must be available. Have these foods been imported into Austria? – All these are questions that are open. I am not sure if this could not happen in Austria too. The AGES does not control feed for dioxin. That's what the Federal Environment Agency does. We believe that far too little samples are being drawn far too little. More stringent controls should be carried out and dioxin examined. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] To endanger the health of consumers there is still the damage to farmers. The pig price falls into the groundless. Moreover, almost daily on the motorway in Upper Austria animal transports are seen with German markings, the pigs, whether from Germany, whether from Holland, I do not know, transport to a slaughterhouse in Upper Austria. Given the currently very sensitive population to transport pigmeat with German transporters, it is certainly not good for the pig price and for consumption. In addition, oberösterreichian pig breeders were stopped from slaughtering pigs. They must not lead them to slaughter. Mr Minister, I ask you to consider this and help the pig farmers because the damage is already enormous!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e23718	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e23740	Mr President. High house! On a given occasion and because that also raised a few previous speakers: The dioxin scandal is actually a feed scandal. It is clear that there is another structure in Germany, including what the controls are going on. In Germany, there are 17 national authorities carrying out the checks. In Austria it is an authority, namely the AGES, which is a federal authority which makes these controls central. We have a farm that produces such fats, and it is regularly controlled. In Austria, there has been a voluntary monitoring system in consultation with the AGES for several years – and I am responsible for the field of feed control – and feed manufacturers to ensure that nothing happens. The fact is that you are not against it, if someone is maliciously committing curfews, which, of course, was not all right and obviously happened in Germany. In any case, Germany wants to take over the system as we have in Austria. Unfortunately, this also puts pressure on our pig industry. Our appeal to consumers who are consumers is to trust the Austrian safe food. Farmers strive for high quality every day, and this must also have an impact. On behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and It is about the plant protection product package, and it has been mentioned by some, in particular by Mr Grillitsch, that it will achieve two key points. On the one hand, there will be a higher level of protection for the environment and also for human and animal health in the future, and – second point – there is administrative simplification. In plant protection, three legal bases are reduced to two, double and multi-tracks are reduced, and above all, you get faster access to more environmentally friendly products. The revision of the Plant Protection Act has become necessary because we have implemented and have to implement the so-called EU plant protection product package in accordance with which the European Union is divided into three zones where there are similar conditions in agriculture, plant protection and the environment. There is a mandatory mutual recognition of the authorisation of plant protection products between Member States of a zone. This helps farmers so that there is not an elaborate procedure in every state, which actually only causes bureaucracy. As a counterweight to this, there are exclusion criteria and therefore, for the first time, the possibility of early withdrawal of active substances classified as negative in the context of a risk assessment. So it also takes precedence over the health of people. As a result of the implementation of this Directive, there will also be a greater need for sustainable use of pesticides, regular control of supplies, a ban on spraying from the air and measures to protect the environment, in particular the designation of areas without and with low pesticides. Use or also on provisions relating to the storage and handling of pesticides. For farmers, facilitating the effective use of plant protection products means, of course, reducing them to a minimum. Costs must be reduced, and human and animal health is at the forefront. I am particularly grateful to the employees of my home and also to those who have been proactively involved in the discussion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e23798	The next item is the speech by Mr Ing. Schools. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e23819	Mr. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Appreciate High House! With these legal changes in plant protection legislation, we are responding to a change in Europe that shows us that it is good that Austria is in the EU. As a small market, we could hardly afford the registration of modern plant protection products as small Austria. It is the case in European law that plant protection products that do not comply with the latest state of the art lose their registration and have to be replaced by new, better. Due to the new zone registration in three zones, we are still in the process as a very small market, even when it comes to special preparations, special products, and can therefore be successfully produced at a high level of safety with the lowest possible risk. What it means is that this good Austrian market is so well served by the farmers, we see this on the consequences of the disaster in Germany, because the sourries that have happened there are causing real damage. I am therefore very grateful for the fact that our Federal Minister has made the right demands in connection with the pig price decline. Of course, it is necessary for the European Union to keep pigmeat in stock and to open up private storage. Of course, it is necessary for us to do what is going on in Austria, and so I am very glad that the Austrian Chamber of Agriculture has presented their arguments in the AMA for so long until the agricultural market Austria has established that we will have a special and priority in advertising pigmeat. It is also true that we in Austria expect the loyalty of consumers, and I am very glad that, for example, the SPAR trade chain has instructed its suppliers in writing to use only meat from Austria for all products, including sausages. That's exemplary! Unfortunately, other large trading chains have not yet said yes in this clarity for the entire group, but that is worth it. I thank Gerhard Wlodkowski and our Federal Minister Niki Berlakovich at this point. The problem is a big one. Our farmers are facing a big challenge, and I can only tell you: Consumers are well advised to continue to consume Austrian pigmeat with joy, but also all other products, also because we have them. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Where does your contribution stay?]] It is worth something that we have farmers in our own country, who can really do something. I would like to thank them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e23856	Next speaker: Mr Jannach. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e23877	Mr President. Federal Minister! The FPÖ will be in agreement with the Agricultural Law Change Act, as well as 15 positive opinions from all possible authorities, including the Court of Auditors. We are particularly positive that this law seeks to promote alternative methods of plant protection. This is really a positive aspect, which honourable Member Maier has already mentioned. The FPÖ therefore also gives its approval because we know that trade in plant protection products is being released. We hope that there will be more competition, as it now allows the Austrian position to easily import plant protection products from Germany or the Netherlands. We hope that it will be competitive and that farmers will be able to achieve a price advantage that only their colleagues in other European countries have so far had. On the question of Pirklhuber, which refers to organic farming and which is intended to lay down the agriculture of the future by law: This would be useful for environmental reasons, but we do not seem quite realistic. We are going the way to leave farmers the freedom to choose between conventional and organic farming, because there must also be a market for organic farming. There would be nothing to force farmers to go the bio-way by law. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: This is not a compulsion, it is a model!]] Even if it were just a model, that is also a requirement for future funding, and we do not want that as a FPÖ. We stand for freedom of choice of production! There should be a balance between organic farming and conventional agriculture. Yes, you can clap quietly, too. [[towards ÖVP]] It's not like that. I also say things that are positive! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Call at the ÖVP: Now I'm sure you'll get back to criticism!]] Come on, you're right! The Minister has mentioned the dioxin scandal briefly today. We now have the issue of equal treatment where you have tabled an application for equal treatment in rural areas. I mean, we actually have other problems. If the “curier” today is so titled, then we actually have a problem. [[The speaker keeps a newspaper page up to date]] Mr Schultes, it's good that you praise the farmers for doing something, and that you too want to do something for the farmers. But what happens now? – In the “Kronen Zeitung” I read: Now comes an eco-pakt. In the paper, the Minister is laughing beside a piglet. This eco-fact provides that the trade chains – with SPAR there is already a very concrete agreement – increasingly rely on meat from local courts. That's nothing but a statement of intent! We want rapid action. We have therefore also prepared two motions for resolutions which we wish to make today. They all know how dramatic the situation on the pig market is at present. We believe that an import ban would be the most important and rapid measure to protect pig farmers in Austria. That is why I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] We are therefore rather insisting that an import ban is imposed than that a large quantity of agricultural and agricultural funds should be reintroduced into the AMA advertising, which is very doubtful in its implementation and does not actually bring the success that we expect. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] A second motion for a resolution, which I shall put right here, concerns the designation of origin for meat. It is still not clear and clear how Austrian meat is made clear to consumers. They say that the AMA-Austria mark means pure Austrian meat, but if we are honest, we must say: Consumers go into a business, and when something is marked red-and-white, consumers believe, regardless of whether the AMA mark is on it or not, that it is an Austrian product. We want a clear regulation, namely that where red-and-white-red is on it, only Austrian products are in it in all forms. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is why I am now bringing in the resolution already announced. This is: Motion for a resolution by Mr Jannach, Mr Mayerhofer, Mr Ing. Hackl, colleagues on: According to dioxin scandal, a origin identification for meat is essential The National Council wants to decide: “The Federal Government is invited to take all necessary steps to ensure that only meat from animals raised in Austria as Austrian goods can be supplied with the A stamp and sold as Austrian quality meat.” There is a lot to do here: Less money in ads and advertising and more in meaningful legal measures! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e23974	The two motions for resolutions which have just been tabled are sufficiently supported and are therefore under negotiation. The two applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e24063	Next speaker: Mr Schopf. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e24084	Mr President. Minister! My dear! Ladies and gentlemen! Much has already been said about the implementation of an EU directive with this proposal. However, it will not only be an EU The directive will be implemented, but more will be done with this law. It will also increase the standard in some areas in Austria, especially if you look at the area of total control possibilities, and I think that is important and correct. Finally, if it is properly interpreted and if there is still a lot to be done in the area of regulation, it is also quite certain – I think that is also the objective – that the use of plant protection products is reduced. I believe that it is necessary for health and the environment to reduce the use of such protective equipment in the future. A very important point, Minister of Agriculture, is that you will have the coordination competence in the future, and this coordination competence will enable a number of things to be done in future, particularly in the field of control. I would point out that in the future there will be an opportunity to carry out the checks at both the production and marketing stages. With regard to the number of controls – which has repeatedly been discussed here in the House – we will have the opportunity to define a minimum number of controls in the future by means of this law. In some areas where we think they are particularly important to us for health and environmental reasons, we also have the possibility to prescribe restrictions or a clear ban on these plant protection products. This concerns nature reserves, public parks, children's playgrounds, but also areas where – and that is, I think, especially important for the population – water resources exist. And if we're already on the waterfront: Especially in this context, it is necessary and important to reduce plant protection products, because in the end this also means better groundwater, and better groundwater means better drinking water, and that is of great importance to the population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e24126	The next item is the speech by Mr Huber. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e24148	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Minister! Of course, we will also agree to the Plant Protection Act 2011. This brings us further, which brings relief to farmers and is a step in the right direction. But I believe, because of the current situation and because of what happened especially in terms of economics – this is also true for Austrian pig farmers – one must now say the truth about the dioxin scandal. And I think that's where we should start. In 1983 an Austrian farmer for a pig got 35 s per kilogram, which is 2.54 €. Today he gets 1,20 € or – more precisely – 1,21 €. This is certainly not a viable way of life. [[Abg. Grill: This is the livestock trade!]] – The livestock trade certainly does not do anything, these are the large slaughterhouses. You have to look at why this is so. Let's look at the cattle market: The beef market operates the private Austrian livestock trade, and today we have a situation where we can really say that prices are rising daily. But this, please, has nothing to do with the pig problem through the dioxin scandal – this is a problem that is solved, which is urgent and easy to solve. But if you read today in the “Kronen Zeitung” that a local slaughterhouse – I don’t call it a name now, but that’s a very, very big one near Linz – no longer accepts goods from the local farmers and says on the phone to the farmer: I can't buy the goods, because next week it'll be cheaper, and I'll only kill more German pigs!, then something has to happen. On the other hand, the Federal Minister is certainly not able to fight against an import ban, that will not go, but what we must and will demand – and this is especially for the protection of our consumers – is that all pigs that are now being imported must be examined for dioxin residues abroad, because with it – I am now going to put in a corresponding motion for a resolution – we protect our consumers, and I am sure – you are laughing and shaking your head, Mr Grillitsch – the ÖVP will also vote. [[Abg. Grill: I didn't do anything!]] This is a modern policy that immediately supports our Austrian product and offers consumer safety. One has to see that the consumer spends 13 percent of his income on food today, and 50 years ago it was still over 50 percent. Food safety must have a value. Especially today, where the farmer in Austria gets 130 € for a carnage, but it costs him at least 200 €, one must protect the farmer, and there one must finally leave the wood road that the ÖVP has taken 60 years ago and make reasonable, modern policy. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I believe that if we all stick together and decide on this law today, we really have a pioneering role. And above all: We do not need to be ashamed, because in the year 2000 at the BSE scandal, all the countries that imported meat from Austria immediately requested the BSE investigation. So this is also easy to do in this case. For this reason, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I believe that this proposal is a step in the right direction. We're going to make REWE a mint, too. The company Spar has today promised to take only products from Austrian suppliers. Maybe we can make it happen that REWE, too, is taking this up. Let's remember: In 1983 the farmer received €2.54 for a kilogram of slaughter pig. If you only calculate inflation, it would have to get €6.60 today, and not the €1.20 with which it is now – I would have said soon – handled by a party.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e24219	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e24272	Next speaker: Mr Peter Mayer. 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e24296	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) In order for this new plant protection legislation to be a real success, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen, this new plant protection legislation, of course, means light and shadow to the practicing farmer. On the one hand, light is expected as a cost reduction in the plant protection product area is expected for the farmer, on the other hand shadows, as in return some active palettes are eliminated due to increased cut-off criteria. In this context, we also need to discuss, if we want to force certain fruits in Austria, in agriculture, for example, soy where we want to become more independent in terms of protein feed imports. The stand is: At present we have an area of 34 000 hectares, 50 000 hectares would be possible, but this presupposes that the economics of cultural leadership is given. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Yes, exactly!]] And we need to be careful when, for example, the debate on the active substance bentazone is being held. We need a replacement that is in line with economy and ecology. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Alternative methods!]] – Among other things, but of course the yield is lower. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Right!]] I'm gonna have to stop you. I would like to say one thing: It was the talk of many new requirements, new requirements in terms of further training for users and also for those who place the plant protection products on the market, as well as in terms of records and so on. However, I would also like to point out that the majority of Austrian farmers have already voluntarily fulfilled these requirements under the environmental programme. Not only because one wants to reduce the use of plant protection products or for cost reasons, but also because one is interested in maintaining sustainable food production in Austria. And for that, our local farmers are the guarantee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e24396	The amendment just tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Brunner. 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e24421	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister for Agriculture, thank you for your thanks first for proactive participation. My colleague Wolfgang Pirklhuber has been bringing himself in in this area for over ten years. The EU Directive also requires you to reduce pesticides, and it must now be implemented through the National Action Plans by 2012. That is why we will also agree to the Plant Protection Act. However, as a sample of nails, I would also like to make an application for a sub-area, namely: [[Quoted print version removed]] We experience it and beekeepers have been observing bee dying for years in connection with corn monocultures. This is also confirmed by studies. This would once be a possibility where you could use your combination as a Minister for Agriculture and the Environment. Unfortunately, I don't see the signals like that. Your answer shows that you only want to change the rules of application. It is also revealing that on the AGES homepage there is the same information that the chemical industry also has as an info. This is a blow to the face of beekeepers and environmentalists. However, I hope that the Members here know the positive importance that bees have for ecosystems, but also the negative effects that pesticides have in the ecosystem, and that they know that this is a very important environmental policy issue. I therefore seek approval and believe that Austria needs an independent, strong and committed Ministry of the Environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e24484	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e24538	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Gaßner. Four minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e24560	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The last request made by Mrs Brunner certainly has a very interesting content, but I would like to say something about it in principle. It is, of course, the right of every individual here to submit motions for resolutions and requests as they may be called. But with us in the Committee on Agriculture, so far, the practice of working together on the motions for resolutions has been established, and we have managed to make a few five-party requests. [[Abg. Huber: But now it comes to the signal to investigate that!]] It does not make much sense to make the request now, and we should say within minutes: Yeah, let's go! [[Abg. May. Brunner: Maybe you can still do it!]] That's not how it is! This is simply not a parliamentary usus. Perhaps we could put this back into the committee and try to find common ground there. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Yes, please!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Plant protection products and plant protection are the subject of today's decision. All parties will agree, as far as I have now heard. It is also a good thing that we are making arrangements here. Mr Federal Minister, I wish you all the best that you can really implement this coordination competence that you now have. You have weighty partners here, the countries, and if they don't play along, the control will not work there either. But I think you're going to get that right. It is important, especially for groundwater – even this was done in a single and clear way. I have to make a small comment on this because the farmers are so praised that they do everything so clean and so good. [[Abg. Eßl: You do too!]] For many years I have had to deal with groundwater, water supply, and for decades we have not actually got rid of the nitrate and pesticides problem, although millions of environmental funding have been paid, from ÖPUL to community funding. I hope that this law will also help to ensure that we finally get clean groundwater. [[Abg. Eßl: An AMA seal!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] You'd like that. It's already up to you. Ladies and gentlemen! On the requests made by Mr Grillitsch – no, not Grillitsch, he did not make any. [[Abg. Grill: Yes! A amendment!]] Yes, we have tabled an amendment, right. On request of Pirklhuber concerning organic farming: Okay, that's especially promoted, it's on the right track in itself. But that we're spending it all over, I think time isn't yet ripe. And that the use of genetically modified seed is prohibited is clear. But against this genetic engineering infection, we have already brought together very good five-party applications twice. The other request to the AMA is about qualities and so on. It would be important that we take this out of the AMA and really deal with qualities. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Enjoy! Let's go!]] Because, Mr Federal Minister, it is of course clear and supportive if you call on the consumers to buy Austrian quality – logically. Only: Unfortunately, the consumer is not able to determine whether this is really - now in the case of Germany - dioxin-free with sausage or processed pig. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Improve the labelling!]] Unfortunately, this cannot be determined. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Also free of genetic engineering!]] Or geneticly free from feed. It is therefore high time that we actually carried out this marking, which I believe has already been decided in this House, at European level. The Austrian consumer must know that this is from the Austrian farmer, and then he depends anyway that this is all right. But he can't. [[Abg. Eßl: He can do that with the AMA seal!]] The AMA seal doesn't say anything about what's in the sausage. That's not true! This quality should therefore be given absolute priority and the quality mark finally come true.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e24724	The next item is the speech by Mr Eßl. 2 minutes are set. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e24745	Ladies and gentlemen! Plant protection is, of course, an important issue, and therefore also the Plant Protection Act and the Plant Protection Act are important laws that give safety to farmers, who also give safety to consumers. We farmers are willing to meet and implement the wishes of consumers. However, one also has to say that we already have conditions enough. However, these laws do not bring additional requirements, but contain adjustments, government structure and the like. As far as Mr Pirklhuber's motion for a law is concerned, which wants to move towards organic production and to have practically the whole agricultural production as a organic production is concerned, I must say that I believe that we should remain voluntary. Bio must grow with the market. I say no to a commitment. We do this voluntarily, and we need to create incentives in the public sector. We want the eco-social market economy. We need to see that we also have the appropriate framework conditions in Brussels, that we have the necessary financial resources, and that we also have the corresponding budgets available here in Austria. As far as food and feed scandals are concerned, I would also like to say two words. If Members of this House, who are in the Committee on Agriculture, now suddenly want to make this feed scandal a food scandal, then I would like to ask you to be a little more careful in the choice of words, because that really hurts the farmers. We can only say: Dear consumers, watch out for the AMA seal, because this guarantees that Austrian goods are also within! [[Abg. May. Gaßner: Just not!]] I ask that first of all one be careful about the choice of words and that one then remains with the domestic products, and I also thank the farmers for their valuable work.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e24780	As the last speaker on these agenda items, Mr Juryenschlager is speaking on behalf of the honourable Member. 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e24801	Mr President. Estimated Minister! Dear High House! The Plant Protection Act is based on and for itself on two large pillars: on the one hand on the level of protection for the environment and on the other, of course, on simplification in bureaucracy, in the settlement for the individual farmer. But in the discussion on plant protection products, we also need to deal with the question of making the funds better, more selective and effective. This is where development must also be driven, as we cannot take the step backwards, because the new plant protection legislation also allows us access to larger markets and the authorisation of new resources, and here, of course, we also have safety in the various resistances. Plant protection is responsible for strengthening the plants and thus for growth and in the final effect for yield security. Now I already know that in the word ‘profit security’, when we mention it to farmers, one or the other, the feelings come up and he thinks only of profit maximization. This is not a problem for me, because I believe that farmers too may deserve something. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] However, the term ‘profit security’ should also be combined with the term ‘food safety’, as plant protection is also food protection. I would like to briefly mention the concept of the “trailer” as an example. It is an old bread disease known in the baker's language, which is due to microbiological infections and is now more frequent, which many of us have already been alerted to by damage. These are hay and potato bacteria, whereby the conversion to cultivation methods and, of course, the various reductions in plant protection products increase the level of infection with these bacteria and thus the risk is also higher. Thus, the bacteria pass through the spores from the field over the grain into the flour and thus into the dough. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: These are mushrooms, not spores!]] At the later stage, of course, the bread is no longer edible. And here we are guaranteed consumer or plant protection, which guarantees food safety. Mr Pirklhuber, I would like to offer you a price list – I have already offered it to you during the last discussion on plant protection products – today I also have one with you. You can be sure: The Austrian farmers will never apply more than necessary and really only what is absolutely necessary, because sustainable agriculture in Austria has for centuries been linked to maintaining our soil fertility, protecting the environment and, of course, continuing to make gentle use of our resources. This is necessary as a self-protection of our livelihood and thus our highest principle.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e24859	No one is reporting on this. I therefore conclude the debate. Does one of the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we shall vote on the draft Agricultural Law Change Act 2010 in 896 of the Supplements. I'm sorry, Mr Grillitsch, ma'am. Gäßner, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an amendment. Since there is only one amendment tabled, I shall immediately vote on the draft law as amended by the Government template, taking into account the amendment just mentioned. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who speak for it to be a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. – That too is unanimous. The draft law was therefore adopted at third reading. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Pirklhuber, colleagues on the National Action Plan on the sustainable use of pesticides. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Jannach, colleagues on the ban on imports of German pigmeat. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Jannach, colleagues, on: According to dioxin scandal, a origin identification for meat is essential. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – That too is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Brunner, colleagues, concerning the prohibition of the use of insecticide-fermented seed from the neonicotinoides active substance group as a measure against bee death. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. [[Aufgaben und Bravorufe bei der Greenen, das Abg. Ing. Gartlehner agreed.]] [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Bravo! That's a beekeeper!]] – That too is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. We are now voting on the request of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry to take note of its report 1035 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. [[The representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP are only reluctant to rise from their seats.]] I think that the different voting behaviour before that has produced a bit of confusion, but now everything is right again. – This is, of course, the majority. The application is therefore accepted. We are now voting on the request of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry to take note of its report 1036 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is also accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Huber, colleagues on the control of carcases and dioxins. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. [[20:08:37]] 13. Point report of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry on amendment 1081/A(E) by Mr Mag. Gisela Worm, Dorothea Schittenhelm, Mag. Judith Schwentner, Martina Schenk, colleagues on gender equality in the rural development programme 2007–2013 (LE 07–13) (1037 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e24983	We're going to the 13th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Fixed speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e25011	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Minister! What the National Council has to deal with! We normally have to take immediate action here for pig farmers, but we are dealing with equal treatment measures. [[Abg. Hellererer: You don't understand!]] With all the appreciation of equal treatment, please do not misunderstand, but I will read to you your own motion for a resolution, just so that you know it. The competent... [[Abg. May. Schwentner: Do you compare pig farmers with equal rights?]] No, no, no. We demand urgent measures for pig farmers and see a different weighting. This is about existence and a call for the Federal Minister. This request is particularly entertaining, because it deals with the “Lural Development 2007–2013” programme, and 2007 is known to have been over for a long time. The programme runs for a long time and is over in 2013, but the Federal Minister is asked by the Members, by their own representatives of the ÖVP and the SPÖ to ensure equal opportunities between men and women in rural development. Mr. Minister, have you not done this before? We have already discussed this in the Committee. I myself am a farmer and I also apply for my support under the support programmes, and I am not aware that any measure in a support programme treats women differently against men. We think that this is kind of absurd. It is further called for: The competent Federal Minister is invited to implement and ensure the objective of equal opportunities at all stages of the programme and subsequent programmes. - Yes, we expect it to be. I do not need to expressly demand that this would mean to the Minister that he has not done so until now. I would never say that the Minister would act almost anti-female or discrimination against women. It is also called on to ensure that the key actions formulated in the national strategy are implemented with particular importance in terms of equality between women and men and to develop programmes according to the possibilities. – He could have developed the programs already. The programme has been running, as has been said, since 2007. It only calls for equal opportunities, but we already see it guaranteed. That is why we voted against the Committee, and we will do so here today in the National Council. We hope and assume that a Federal Minister responsible for an economic field, namely agriculture, will automatically and on his own set out measures to ensure equal opportunities. We do not see equal opportunities at risk – at present.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e25061	Next speaker: Mrs Hellerer. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e25082	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Jannach, I think you have never really dealt with equal treatment and equal opportunities in your life, and you probably have not understood the proposal in terms of content. [[Congratulation with ÖVP, SPÖ and Greens]] That's how I see it after you interpret it now. Listen, then you may be able to take a little bit of knowledge with you, which allows you to giant even in your own environment. Agriculture in Austria is becoming more and more female. 40 per cent of the farms are run by women, who thus also guarantee land management, because the women's farms are usually the smaller farms. It is therefore also necessary and important that all projects, all rural development programmes, including for the period 2007 to 2013, with a view to equal opportunities, i.e. equal opportunities for men and women, should be targeted and the projects should be promoted accordingly, also with a view to improving this equal opportunities situation in the follow-up period and achieving a corresponding starting position. [[Abg. May. Stefan: What is the difference between a farmer and a farmer?]] There are good projects dealing with equal opportunities, which are also implemented. I am thinking here of the project of the Chamber of Agriculture of Lower Austria, which is called “PartnerForce”. A project that is very interesting, which I am also accompanied by enthusiasm, which is primarily concerned with, and this is the fascinating fact that farmers and farmers are given a new view of their activities, where there are shortcomings in cooperation, in living together, and in which they are addressed; Deficiencies which are not so conscious of farmers themselves, but which are even hindering the continued operation of farms. This is the case, for example, when it comes to investment, for women and men to decide together. [[Abg. May. Stefan: What kind of government is that? He's got to be asked, Minister?]] We have launched a project “ZAM” with the support of the Federal Ministry of Agriculture, the LFI and the ARGE farmers. It is an educational project that is specifically geared to the needs of women, which includes, above all, a management course for women who are already working publicly, and also for women who want to do so more and more, who want to be present in the public. [[New call for tender of the Abg. May. Stefan.]] Women are the innovative, the creative, they are above all also the ideas of their companies, and they are also competing. In the case of ‘LEA’, a competition initiated by the Federal Minister, women, namely the best of the best in their field, are presented publicly with their services and brought to the fore with services provided by women in their businesses, in the environment, in the social field and also in food production. These women have role models, not only for women, but also for men. Much has happened, but it is still very much to do. [[Abg. May. Stefan: Do it! Do it!]] We need, above all, women who are involved in regional development. A regional policy that makes sense needs the vision of women. We need women in the political, agricultural decision-making bodies and in the representation of interests, in good positions. [[Abg. May. Stefan: Should we do that?]] And we need a good information policy on equal opportunities, which could be very useful to you, but which makes sense in particular for the consultants of the funding agencies. [[call to the FPÖ.]] One thing is certain: Equal opportunities is not living reality, is not an illusion, it is a constant work on raising awareness, and to which I cordially invite you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e25200	Next speaker: Mrs Schönpass. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e25222	Mr President. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) This item on the agenda is about equality between women and men in the rural development programme. I would like to remind you of the Green Report on the situation in the Austrian agriculture and forestry sector, which says: “The concrete debate on equality of opportunity in rural areas and integration efforts for all social groups set the course for increased quality of life and ultimately lead to more satisfaction and closeness to citizens.” That is certainly what the liberals want, even if they sometimes smile at it. "The LE 07-13 programme has the resources to advance this development. However, the conscious involvement of all groups in development and decision-making processes in the regions is often not carried out with the necessary professionalism and sustainability.” This point in the Green Report will also have been the reason why the request has been pushed back and forth in the bodies. “In view of the existing situation, it is crucial that tangible accents – human resources and clearly defined budget approaches – are made available for this purpose and these objectives are also implemented with competence, commitment and responsibility.” – Quotes. Ladies and gentlemen! The present report of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry is based on a four-party request. It includes concrete demands to our agriculture ministers for the provision of the necessary resources, corresponding representation of women and disadvantaged social groups in the bodies and participation in decision-making processes, in particular in the local working groups of the “Leader programme”, as well as specific training and training programmes for women, and not only for farmers, but generally for all people in rural areas. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Finally, Mr. Minister: We write the year 2011. The program will run until 2013. You don't have much time to meet the specific demands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e25279	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Schwentner. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e25300	Mr President. Minister! Sometimes it's nice when a man talks about equality policy. That can be a positive signal. In that case, Mr Jannach, you unfortunately confirm every cliché you know about your party's statements on equality policy and gender mainstreaming, I say the word "gener" now consciously and gladly again. [[Intervoke by Dr. Rosenkranz and Zanger.]] It must be said how the cure of this request was. It was originally decided – and there was your female spokesperson – that it would be a five-party request. We've gone through this several times. We were all d’accord and we agreed. And then what was? – After consultation in your club, the woman spokesperson obviously no longer got the D’accord and had to take her name. Unfortunately, she told us that quite late. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Singer.]] As regards the deadline referred to and the years 2007–2013, one can say: Yes, it is time to look at gender equality policies in this rural development programme. You've delayed this too. Thank you again. You would not have had to go along with the request if you did not understand it and do not know what you are talking about. At first, you were on the request. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[call to the FPÖ.]] It is true that more and more women are working in agriculture, which is about 46 percent. [[Abg. Singer: Do you know why?]] – Yes, I don’t want to know about you, I know it altogether. More and more women will also be operating women. [[Abg. Singer: Because the men have to go to work to get the children and the family!]] – Yes, then support the women in their conditions! If you understand them so well, then support them, because the relevant agricultural frameworks are not yet given. [[Congratulation with greens and SPÖ.]] It is particularly the women who maintain small farms, and they do not find the conditions in the country that they need, for example, corresponding childcare facilities. If you look at how the kindergarten opening times are in the country and how they are in the city, you can see a blatant difference. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hornek.]] – No, if you compare this, on average, three quarters of kindergartens in rural areas are open for less than eight hours. For example, if you compare this with Vienna: There are nine out of ten kindergartens open for more than eight hours. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] Many kindergartens in the rural area block up at lunchtime. I know. Women need to get their children and they haven't secured any further care. [[New calls to the ÖVP.]] But just as you're excited, that shows that there's still something in the area in the arrogance. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Let's see what the representation of women in management and management functions looks like in the example of farming chambers: Yes, it looks particularly sad, because only 15 percent of women are represented in the chambers, for example, in Styria it is only 7 percent. That is to say, there must be a lot of things to do, and that is why this request contains a lot of measures in this direction. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Singer.]] . You can now tell us from the speaker's desk what you are planning, Mr Colleague. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Further call of the Abg. Singer.]] Come forward and talk about equality policy! Please! You are most cordially invited to do so. My speaking time is now over, and you would like to continue talking about equality policy, it would really interest me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e25433	Next speaker: Mrs Schenk. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e25455	Mr President. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! If we are talking about equal opportunities for women and men in agriculture, we must also consider equal opportunities between rural and urban areas. This proposal makes a first contribution to the fact that women in rural regions, women active in agriculture, have the same support as women in cities. An example of this is a focus on continuing training. Most of the training institutions are concentrated in urban areas, ladies and gentlemen. This imbalance must be offset as quickly as possible. Another important aspect, I believe, is that the EU’s rural funding instruments should be as broad as possible. Unlike the usual practice of agricultural support, not only the large ones should benefit, but also, instead, should finally have a broad impact. For women in rural areas in particular, these challenges of daily life are still enormous, especially as regards childcare; Mr Schwentner mentioned this earlier. Rural areas are often at a great disadvantage compared to the cities. Rural women are particularly disadvantaged in childcare. Nevertheless, 40 percent of the business leaders in Austria are women. 40 percent of Austrian women work as farmers in agriculture. The performance of these women in the agricultural sector needs to be given more attention and greater political commitment, both at European level and within the framework of Austrian measures. I would particularly like to address the implementation of the measures. It has also been mentioned by my previous speakers, the programme runs until 2013. We now have the year 2011. It is no longer much time for implementation, and implementation is important. I call on you, Minister, to devote yourself quickly to this implementation. We from the BZÖ will follow this implementation and look at your fingers – I am a woman's speaker together with our agricultural speaker Gerhard Huber. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e25512	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e25533	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The issue of equality between women and men is an important point in the programme and action of the department. Some speakers have stressed that it is not much time to implement it, but I can calm you down: It has already been implemented in these “Program Files of Rural Development 2007–2013”, especially not only anchored in the programme, but it must be lived daily in the implementation of the “Program Files for Rural Development”, and the principle of equal treatment plays a major role, i.e. – I quote – equal treatment regardless of sex, skin color, ethnic origin, religion, political and other views, disability of old age and so on. - Quote. This means that, in particular, priority 3 is mentioned in the Rural Development Programme, which is in concrete terms the quality of life in rural areas and the diversification of the rural economy, and also the priority of the programme 4, the implementation of the "Leader" concept. There is, in particular, scope for implementation in the framework of projects in which women and men are equated, and this is being strongly driven forward. For example, in the field of education, which has already been mentioned, my predecessor has addressed education: Especially in the field of rural training of the LFI, many training measures are offered to promote women pro-actively, and of course also men, because they are concerned with continuing training in the sector. Mr Hellerer mentioned it: In 2010, the project “Future-oriented agricultural motivation” was created in cooperation with the LFI, the Rural Training Institute, and my home, the Ministry of Life, which addresses farmers in particular. €200 000 will be spent in 2010/2011 to train and continue farmers. I think all the previous speakers have pointed out that 40 percent of farms in agriculture and forestry in Austria are run by women. It would be unthinkable for our sector if it were not for women who often have the extra burden, for example to care for old people – the childcare was already mentioned. Therefore, I started the competition “LEA” together with the farmers – it has already been mentioned – in which the benefits of farmers in the field of social, natural and environmental protection, the economy, innovation are highlighted, so that there is also social recognition for farmers who often have to work under very difficult conditions. It was mentioned priority 4, “Leader”. The ‘Leader’ concept is implemented by the so-called ‘LAG’, the local action groups, and it is planned that a certain proportion of women will be involved in these local action groups. This has been defined in the programme, and as one of the quality criteria, local development strategies, which these regions themselves give themselves, must also follow the principle of equality between women and men. As Minister of Life, I must present a report on how this equality has also been implemented. A working group has been set up within the Monitoring Committee on the Rural Development Programme, which will also review the promotion of equal opportunities in the implementation of the programme. You see, we are doing a lot here because this is a very, very important area for the agricultural and forestry sectors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e25610	Next speaker: Member of the Council of Ministers of the European Communities. 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e25631	Mr President. Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Your colleague, you miss the representation of women in the committees of agriculture in Austria. I can only tell you: Please register! We have a democratic opportunity everywhere. The Greens are always enthusiastically discussing the agricultural issues here, but in the case of agricultural chamber elections, they always lack representation on the polls across the country, which speaks for itself. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] I'd like to tell you: It is likely that gender is less important than political content. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Crochet: Is that so?]] – Yes, in the case of the ÖVP, it is true that the caretaker of the Austrian young farmerry is a very successful politician, namely the agricultural speaker in the European Parliament, Member Elisabeth Köstinger. [[Abg. May. Brunner: The only thing that comes to your mind!]] – This is not the only thing, because she is one of many successful farmers in the Austrian agricultural policy alongside the Federal Farmer Anna Hölrerund, Vice-President of the Lower Austrian Chamber of Agriculture Theresia Meier et cetera. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We have already heard that 40 percent of the farms are run by women. That is also good and important. This is also about setting specific training opportunities, as the requirements are constantly increasing. It is already very good in agriculture, the state of play is very far developed. Through all training systems, we can also see an ever-increasing proportion of female graduates. That's very good. If it was at the beginning of the last century that a woman became a farmer when she married a farmer, it is so that today she is a farmer then if she chooses this profession for her own sake. It is about them being very well trained and bringing all the skills for this profession. I can give you an example from my wine-growing industry. Here women are very highly developed especially in the field of sensors regarding their sensory perception. There they are very talented. [[Abg. Gartelgruber: But hello!]] [[Cheerfulness at the FPÖ.]] The claim that the rural development programme concerns not only farmers but, in general, rural areas, I cannot afford much, because agricultural policy is not social policy. Farms must continue to be balanced and paid for benefits. Because only a living space can be preserved by the strong engine of the farms.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e25724	As the last speaker on this item on the agenda, Mrs Hakel is speaking at 3 minutes' speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e25746	Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Schmuckenschlager! If you are talking about equality between women and men in rural areas, you must not make the mistake of saying: Gender equality works in rural areas because 40 percent of farms are managed by women. – The rural area consists not only of farmers, but also of women who pursue other occupations. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] The proportion of women in strong agricultural communities is 49.8%. It does sound pretty fair, but there is no balance here in equality. Retirement from rural areas to cities is most common among girls and women aged 18 to 26. Why is that so? Why do young women attract much more in urban regions? – The city-country differences in the educational and employment structure are two of the reasons why it increasingly attracts women into the city. Although many women can – we have heard it several times today: 40 per cent are precise – farmers manage, but when it comes to the services sector in rural regions, when it comes to self-created small and micro-enterprises, it is unfortunately most often a failure when it comes to setting up, as women have a lower base capital and thus often have no right to funded small loans. It is therefore also particularly important that women create their own jobs, are well-informed and are accompanied up to self-employment. A strong disadvantage in rural areas is also evident – we have already heard from a colleague today – in childcare. While nine out of ten facilities are open at least eight hours a day in Vienna, three quarters of kindergartens are open in rural areas for less than eight hours a day. I do not want to start talking about mobility, about non-existent public transport. Again to the farmers: Again, the phenomenon – we have already heard it today – finds that the more one goes up the increasing level of hierarchy, the more the proportion of women disappears. 40 per cent of farm holdings are run by women, but only more than 17 per cent of farms with a size of 200 hectares. Again, back to the interest groups: Perhaps there is once a successor to Mr Grillitsch, but at the Chamber of Agriculture, there are only men throughout the Chamber, and in the regional Chambers of Agriculture – we have already heard it – the proportion of women is only 15 percent. [[Abg. Grillitsch: We have a young Vice-President!]] – But no President in, Mr Grillitsch. That's the difference! Even there it is important to start – and not only to always beautify everything superficially.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e25810	No one is reporting on this. I'll close the debate. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote on the resolution attached to the Committee's report 1037 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. (E 140.) [[20:35:53]] 14. Point Report of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the Government template (1005 e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Waste Management Act 2002 (AWG-Novelle 2010) (1039 d.b.) 15. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on Amendment No 1369/A(E) by Mrs Ing. Hermann Schultes, Petra Bayr, colleagues in the field of sustainability in packaging (1040 d.b.) 16. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 216/A(E) by Mrs Ing. Norbert Hofer, colleagues on the introduction of a notification obligation in the event of storage or further processing of hazardous waste (1041 d.a.) 17. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 1045/A(E) by Mrs Ing. Norbert Hofer, colleagues and colleagues on regular checks of waste collectors and waste treatment plants at shorter intervals (1042 d.a.) 18. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 1211/A(E) by Mr Mag. Christiane Brunner, colleagues in relation to the testing of waste combustion plants (1043 A.D.)
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e25909	We now come to points 14 to 18 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e25936	Mr President. Federal Minister! Today we are discussing the Waste Management Act Novelle. The implementation would, as we have seen, be on the 12th. We've already been a little late in December 2010. The objective of this innovation is to produce EU conformity – ground welcome – climate change and cost savings in the implementation of cross-border shipments of waste. There is a lack of the aspect of avoiding, avoiding, and then recycling waste first and foremost. But only cost savings in carrying out cross-border shipments of waste are defined here as a goal. Greater use and development of electronic data management, including in the shipment of waste, is set as an objective. - That's just too little for us. In addition, the financial impact of these new laws is added. There are very different opinions, there are a total of 45 opinions on this legislative novel, and they are, in part, very critical. I would just like to briefly read about the financial impact of the Code: Annual savings of €2 607 798 are listed here. So someone has to explain to me how to set the annual costs here on the euro. Annual cost of €400 624; therefore, the euro will determine exactly how high the costs will be – that is very, very doubtful. I would like to quote a few comments on this waste management law. In principle, the Court of Auditors supports this waste management law, but ultimately looks at the cost of citizens, i.e. the waste producer countries. The information – as the Court of Auditors says – is missing on the expected effort for the legislative measures of adaptation of countries and where the costs will then land, as has been said. They are not listed here. Similarly, in its opinion, the Municipal Government fears that the required implementation of the planned waste prevention measures should not be reworked to the charges and charges. So the municipal government clearly fears an increase in fees. The opinion of the Association of Austrian Waste Management Companies – which you probably know – is destructive. They say that there will be only a red tape increase and administrative costs for businesses and, finally, for citizens with this innovation and the subsequent regulation in the field of electronic messages will continue to rise. They are expected to amount to € 750 000 per year. Since this levy, which must be paid, would lead to an uncontrolled transfer at all stages of disposal, this is strictly rejected by the Association of Austrian Waste Management Companies, which also fears that there will be a serious waste tourism. The impact in the legislative text: From the environmental point of view, it is argued that waste transport will be carried out on the rail in the future, which is expected to lead to a significant reduction in greenhouse gas emissions. – Even there you have become very careful, because we do not know how to transport the trash away from a household on the rail. This will be very, very difficult. All these are reasons why we will not agree to this amendment to the Waste Management Act. There are very many questions left open. It will inevitably come to garbage tourism with foreign countries. The current, in our view, improved, but well-functioning system of waste disposal, the waste disposal plants will be burdened by this innovation. And if waste disposal plants are taxed, they will inevitably be the cost of the Citizens, and this will become more expensive for citizens. That is why we clearly reject this new law. Another point I would like to address is the request made by Mr Brunner, who is concerned with determining how many waste combustion plants we need in Austria. In fact, it is not understandable to the public why there is no need testing in Austria for waste incineration plants. So far, the need is irrelevant. Everyone can build a garbage incinerator today. We therefore know that waste combustion plants must actually be a huge business, otherwise not public bodies, but also private waste combustion plants would be built. We hope that there will be a plan for a clear presentation where waste combustion plants are really needed. The largest tortoise strip that I have now accommodated is the trash incinerator planned in Heiligenkreuz, because there is absolutely no need for that. You must imagine: In Burgenland there is a volume of waste of 35 000 tonnes, and the waste incineration plant is geared to 330 000 tonnes or 350 000 tonnes. So to be able to operate the plant economically, one has to transport waste there from Budapest or Bratislava, and that cannot be in the sense of Austria. I really hope that the Federal Ministry for Agriculture, Forestry, Environment and Water Management, yes, the entire Federal Government will finally draw up a plan where waste combustion plants are really necessary. Because what we don't want is that waste is transported across Austria, and we don't want waste to be brought from abroad to Austria and burned here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e26018	As the next speaker, Mr Ing. Schools. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e26040	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Appreciate High House! Waste management is a matter of daily life. We like to see ourselves as consumers, but if you look at it from the other side, sometimes we are also quite waste producers and create problems. In Austria, in recent years and decades, it has been possible to reform waste management in such a way that we have a well-organised system today that brings our waste to a location where it belongs at a cost at a cost. We are working to improve this system, and we are also working to be EU-compliant. With today's decision on the Waste Management Act, we will focus even more on the prevention of waste. [[Abg. May. Brunner: Just not!]] So far, the hierarchy has been: avoid, exploit, eliminate. In the future it will be much more hot: avoid, prepare for reuse, recycling, other use – and only then will the removal come. [[Abg. May. Brunner: Reuse – how will compliance be ensured?]] This means that we will make the system more differentiated and we will have a much better overview of the system, because the waste management at open borders is, of course, also a subject of international transport and transportation. With this legal basis, we will also improve control, which can significantly improve the use of electronic possibilities and thus have much better possibilities in the area of waste, which is sensitive. The Austrians are really exemplary in the garbage race – that's something special. 116 kilograms per head are collected, and in this context there are two positive effects: On the one hand, the reuse was improved, on the other hand the energetic use. We can say today that waste in Austria is not a waste product but a product from which something is at least done again – as good as it is. I am now allowed to address a subject that also concerns me, it is the garbage in the countryside, the Letierring. This is a subject on which we need to work. I'm from the country and I can tell you that what we're able to collect from McDonald's packs at the street edges is not pleasing. I therefore think that there is a real need for a common effort to continue on this issue as well. The many volunteers – it is the year of volunteers – who carry out these waste collection actions in the rural regions in spring would deserve more than a thank you from the mayor. We should work together to reduce the waste in the landscape and, secondly, to say thank you to those people who collect the trash in their spare time, so that at least one jause goes out. Ladies and gentlemen! Another issue that concerns me is the issue of food in the trash. We know that food is also valuable today, and I think it is very important to talk about the appreciation of food again. It's good to be able to shop if you can fill your fridge so you can take out your mood and mood, but it's also good to talk about buying valuable products with the food, use them and hopefully not throw them away. Ladies and gentlemen! Reuse and reuse are the important topics of our waste management. Together we can further develop the system. This topic will accompany us in this year, we will be able to talk about it more often. I hope that we will continue to discuss this together in a constructive manner, as of course many other issues in this area are still to be resolved. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e26092	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Brunner. 6 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e26114	Mr President. Minister for Agriculture! Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased that we are finally discussing a waste issue here in Parliament, though late. I think it has been in the mouth since “plastic planet”, and it is high time that we in the National Council also deal with this issue. For me, waste policy, waste prevention of entry into environmental policy, then still in school, when it was a big waste separation, waste prevention. But unfortunately, I feel that this issue has become very difficult in Austrian environmental policy and in terms of its impact. That is why we need more initiative at last. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Unfortunately, I do not see this initiative in the Waste Management Act. It has already been mentioned that this will also implement the new waste hierarchy. What I do not see, however, Mr Schultes, is, as it really should be, because the provisions, the regulations already laid down in the EU directive, but also in our law, do not ensure that. What you have mentioned, the fourth stage, the other exploitation, is nothing but burning. Waste combustion plants are now no longer regarded as waste disposal, but automatically as energy generation. I think it's okay that a waste incinerator needs to generate energy, but to produce waste so that we can generate energy, it can't be, and that doesn't have anything to do with waste prevention. I would like to ask you, Mr Minister, that you do not take advantage of the possibilities that the Waste Directive would have given you to avoid waste. If you were going to work out a waste management plan that has the highest objective of preventing waste – and I ask you to have a waste prevention plan for Austria – then you could also prohibit waste imports. There I come to speak on my request. We already have a wild growth in waste combustion plants in Austria – this is reflected in your own answer. There is not enough garbage for the existing waste combustion plants in Austria, and we will hopefully not produce waste so that these plants have something to heat. If all the plants still planned in Austria – Heiligenkreuz, Frohnleiten, Linz – are implemented, then we have a waste burning capacity of 3 226,000 tonnes with a calculated residual amount of recycling of 1.5 million tonnes, more than the double. That's what I'm asking you: What does this have to do with waste prevention? And that's exactly the point. I come from a waste-incinerator initiative, and first of all, you ask yourself: Do we have so much trash that we don't know where to go? - But it's not. And if citizens' initiatives lead to the meeting, then the answer immediately comes: This is not an approval criterion. – That means we need an approval criterion for whether there is even so much waste there that we need waste combustion plants. It will certainly come so far that waste is imported from all over Europe; certainly not from the nearer surroundings, certainly not from the neighbouring regions, but from far away. And transport will certainly not take place on the rail. It is a maximum of one, two plants in Austria, where rail transport works, otherwise transport is carried out everywhere exclusively by truck. I have therefore already tabled this request for the present amendment to the Waste Management Act, but it is unfortunately being rejected. There are still enough other measures in the area of waste prevention, which I have also requested, but which you did not even want to discuss, which is why the applications have been postponed. Unfortunately, garbage and plastic are not only an ecological problem – the ecological problem is big enough – but also a health problem. That is why, I think, we need a labelling obligation. It just has to be that when I buy foods that are packed in plastic, I know that this is harmful and how it affects me and my health. And we need a turn of evidence. That is, if a producer wants to place plastic or plastic on the market, he must prove that it is not harmful, instead of vice versa. The lightest thing you could do right away would be a plastic sacckerel ban. What do you need a plastic sackerel for? – There are enough alternatives, at least one’s own basket or one that could be useful. With your argument that we don't need a plastic-sackerel ban, I really want to get all the hair – I think every environmentalist is doing this: With us in Austria, you say, we don't need that, because with us the plastic sacks are burned anyway. – This is an environmental declaration of bankruptcy! Explain You are someone who lives in addition to such an unnecessary waste burning plant – I am now speaking specifically As a Burgenländer – why you are so stubborn about it! This is one of the lightest measures we could implement immediately. I agree with my colleague, Schultes, that many Austrians are doing very environmentally consciously in the waste field, that there are also a lot of volunteers working there, but you, as Minister of Agriculture, who is also responsible for the environment, should be the one who is responsible for waste prevention. [[Interference of Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich.]] - Here too. They're in charge of it as the superior. They are otherwise known to have excuses in many areas and not to be responsible. In the waste sector, you are solely responsible, and yet you have done nothing. You are responsible for the prevention of waste, and if you do not change your attitude there, I think it would be better for the environment if you left environmental policy. I am of the opinion that in Austria it will finally continue in the prevention of waste and that we have less plastic: Austria needs an independent, strong and committed Ministry of the Environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e26211	Next speaker: Mrs Bayr. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e26232	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The implementation of the Waste Framework Directive by this law has already been said. The fact that the top priority is to avoid waste has also been mentioned. And that's not quite easy in the implementation, when we know that with crap is a lot, and really a lot to make money. This profit-making, this money-making with the dung then also comes down, among other things, that we find plastic in the form of Sackerln, in the form of bottles, but also glass and aluminum in the landscape, in the waters, in the forest, in the waste, at least wherever it does not belong at all. I don't have the approach to say: Okay, there's a lot of volunteers going into the woods and collecting the trash, and you can't just thank them, but maybe you'll still be able to reunite that. I think the approach should be to see that the shit doesn't get there at all, where it needs to be collected again. A possible way that will certainly lead in this direction is to push back and see that we find a win-win-win-win-win-win situation for a whole, quite a lot of factors with a sensible policy towards multi-way bottles. For example, Health, because toxic additions in cheap plastic continue to diffunde often in food, because this could be pushed back, because we need much less energy and also resources, on raw materials, if we reuse materials instead of tearing them down and remelting them or burning them because we had shorter transport routes, but also because jobs could be secured with them, and because we had shorter transport routes, with products that remain within the region. I think that all this also leads to the fact that, of course, if one comes to a real freedom of choice for consumers between one and the other, one can also promote environmental awareness. We have the multi-way bottles on the list of extinct species, on the Red List, and I think it has been shown that the voluntary commitment of industry on this issue has not worked. We are all therefore called upon – I hope that all five parties will participate – to work on a model of how we can return to an increase in multi-way quotas, which is really significant and useful for the environment. Because it makes sense in the eco-balance sheet to use multi-way, and fortunately everyone agrees on this. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e26278	The next speaker was Mr Pirklhuber. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e26299	Ladies and gentlemen! My colleague has already explained why we will not agree to the Waste Management Act. I would like to address some aspects, in particular what waste prevention and recycling can really mean. Mr. Federal Minister, your positioning is ambitious, there is no empathy for you to really fight as an environmental minister to convince the industry to have consumers on your side, although in practice – and this is the dramatic – the share of multi-way links to mention just one example has drastically decreased in Austria. [[Abg. May. Brunner: illegal situation!]] Austria was a classic country where it was said: Of course, the multi-way system is reasonable, is a reuse, is an efficiency increase, is a prevention of waste. What is fact? – Seven, eight years ago, we still had a multi-way ratio of over 80 percent for drinks, now it is below 25 percent. [[Abg. Eßl: At that time you also slandered!]] – What do you mean, then you've been blaming?- Oh, my God! That's what Mr Eßl says. Is that an answer? Is that a political analysis you're doing? You are from a government party, from a group that is responsible, and nothing else but such an argument comes to your mind?- Oh, my God! [[Abg. May. Brunner: That's always sausage, that's what it means!]] You're imaginative! Unfortunately, the Minister is also unimaginable. What's his sage supposed to burn the plastic sacks? That's not a value chain, it's – that's not even populism. Everyone asks: What are you doing, please? Are you environmental ministers or representatives of the fossil energy industry? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] For they say: Yeah, well, that's oil, we make a sack and we heat it! But that's not an argument. I would now like to introduce a project from Upper Austria, a very good project: We have started in Altmünster with a real recycling and recycling site, where a regional waste management centre has been expanded to support a social project, which is also committed to the recycling of remaining things, which are still usable, and integrates people, helping them to participate in such a project. [[Abg. Hornek: We have been doing this in agriculture since...!]] And this project – RETURN, it is said – which we now multiply in Upper Austria and carry out in several communities, at five or six locations – is responsible for the environmental councillor Rudi Anschober – is a concept in practice. Where is your support to implement such projects in all federal states? – Yes, this is what other federal states do – but then please show me the projects! [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich:..., that's what other federal states do!]] Where do these projects run? And what are you doing in public relations for precisely this type of exploitation, namely for reuse – and especially for the first step, for avoiding? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grandruck.]] – Mr Grossruck, avoid. [[Interference of Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich.]] You can speak, Mr Minister, please let us know once more and tell us how you want to do it, because we were interested in it in the Committee. That is why we also welcome the motion for a resolution as regards the considerations in the multi-way field. You have already made approaches here, a policy of announcement, but then suddenly criticism came from the economic side. [[Abg. May. Brunner: Everything re-embedded!]] Mr Minister, we expect backbone. We expect an Environment Minister to come to the public and say: Yes, ladies and gentlemen, yes, business, it is also in our, in your interest, that we act resource-efficiently, and therefore we will have to make progress in the multi-way, so we will have to avoid waste. – It is also very important in food trade, and Mr Schultes has rightly mentioned the problem of discarding many, many foods and dealing with food. This too is an important point, and we must make this a step forward. Mr Eßl. Your proposals – and not to say, even earlier, you have expressed criticism. This is your right, but this is about proposing concrete measures. We have tabled applications, and we expect that the Committee will continue to work constructively on them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e26426	Mr Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e26447	Mr President. High house! The present draft implements the EU Waste Framework Directive. It is true that, unlike some speakers, this issue is about preventing waste as one of the top principles. The three-stage waste hierarchy process is extended to a five-stage process and thus replaced. Avoiding is a priority. The panic, which is operated by the Greens, is completely inappropriate. [[President Mag. Prammer shall take over the chairmanship.]] The second point is the preparation for recycling. Recycling, other recycling and disposal are at the end of this five-stage process, and that is the case. This law lays down the obligation to draw up waste prevention programmes. So exactly what some complain of as not present is happening in practice and is to be implemented in this law. There are also improvements in the cross-border movement of waste, for example, by means of accompanying documents being carried electronically. It's supposed to be safe. There are also climate-related measures, i.e. provisions on the basis of which waste transport with a certain weight – this is not, as the first speaker has said, about small quantities, but about 50 tonnes – and about a certain transport route, namely 400 kilometres, from the road to the rail. That must be done. That means a clear order. [[Abg. May. Brunner: And how is this controlled and observed? - It's not happening anywhere!]] Farms who are subject to the EMAS certification will also be rewarded, namely those who make the European environmental declaration. And this also applies – because they have to draw up a waste management concept within the framework of this EMAS declaration, so these plants do not have to re-design such a concept. [[Abg. May. Brunner: Yes, but that doesn't control anyone again!]] This will reduce administrative costs and will also reward those who are exemplary here. We have many companies in the industry, in the economy, which do more for environmental protection through voluntary certification, and I initiate and support this positive competition, because it also brings us a lot. With us in Austria, waste management is a living resource management, because we need to catch up in many areas of climate protection, but in the waste management we achieve the climate protection targets – quite clearly – because we are told: [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Burn instead of reuse, that's the practice!]] Before it is deposited – it is only to be stored at the end of what is no longer usable – it is used energetically so that a third of the domestic waste is used energetically. [[Abg. May. Brunner: Energetic use means: burned! – But you should avoid waste!]] I understand that you, Mrs. Colleague, prefer to bury and deposit everything, but we say... [[Abg. May. Brunner: No, avoid!]] [[Abg. May. Brunner: You can't listen!]] Mrs Colleagues, now seriously: How can you have a serious debate when I talk about waste prevention and talk to your colleagues and not listen at all? [[Abg. May. Brunner: Yes, I do!]] What we do primarily in the waste management concept: Avoid! The law contains: Waste prevention concept! - You don't even listen. [[Abg. May. Brunner: You didn't listen to me because I said it didn't stop!]] You do not want to have a serious debate at all! I see that, I understand that, I accept it, but you have to find yourself with it, because we have no more untreated waste, just as you used to, because you haven't had the state of the art, buried it somewhere. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] There are no more untreated wastes in Austria! This was one of the most important steps towards sustainable waste management. 60 percent of our waste is recycled, recycled. This is also an enormous effort where the municipalities, the federal states and also the federal offices work together. This is a peak value that is achieved. Colleague Schultes mentioned it, we Austrians are the world's garbage-separate champions! 116 kilos per head are collected and then reused. These are international top values, so that the goal for the future is to achieve an improvement and an increase in material efficiency, i.e. to increase recycling quotas more effectively, that we increase reuse, that we also have an increase in energy use and energy efficiency, and of course waste prevention and waste prevention are a clear concept. The topic of plastic sacks and plastic carrying bags: There is no ban on plastic sacks throughout Europe – only for your information – and not in Paris – an example that is always quoted – or in Italy. Italy says they consider it, only they have not yet notified it. [[Abg. May. Brunner:... decided!]] But it's definitely a concept you need to discuss. Only for comparison – and here too I appeal to have a serious debate; no one is a defender of the plastic sack, and if you put half the quotes here, the part of political polemics is, however, wrong –: In Italy there are 200 000 tons of plastic sacks and in Austria 5 000 to 6 000 tons, which is 0.01 percent of the waste. [[Abg. May. Brunner: And that's why we don't have to do anything? What is this argument now?]] It's about leaving the church in the village. And the problem, you know that very well, are the thin plastic sacckerels that get into the sea right now in marine areas and are swallowed by the fish, which then die in shame. This is why countries in the Mediterranean, for example, are trying to reduce this. [[Abg. May. Brunner: I invite you to a... meet in Burgenland!]] It is about using 50 percent of the plastic sackerl in Austria. We reuse 50 percent, and the rest is not thrown away anywhere, as Mr Schultes rightly complained, as unfortunately happens in other things, but is used thermally. [[Abg. May. Brunner: Burned!]] And I'm saying that makes sense. It is better to use it thermally than to deposit it somewhere or to throw it out of the car. This is an orderly waste management for which we stand together. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: The Upper Heir of the Nation!]] That is also the point, which is why I have created a five-point programme, where we work together with the economy to develop concepts not only for the prevention, but also for the introduction of new carrier systems, for example by using rottable packaging materials. There are examples here. Consciousness is such a thing. Mr Pirklhuber, I welcome your suggestion that I should do more publicity. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Brunner.]] You just requested this. Especially in the sense of raising awareness, this is certainly necessary in order for the population to realize that alternative substances are also offered here. Similarly, it is part of the measures that we evaluate existing regulations in other EU countries in respect of plastic bags, and also a labelling requirement that I will encourage to the EU Commission so that the consumer can decide. The point is also: What you are doing here again from the Greens is to dissuade Austria's environmental model country. This is just as not appropriate as in other areas, because – I call you a few numbers that are objectively verifiable –: [[Abg. May. Brunner: Stop it! I'm not talking Austrian bad, but I'm criticizing your policy!]] Compared to 2004, the total amount of waste from households deposited in landfills has been reduced by 34 percent, thanks to the effort of vie people in the Republic. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: That's logical! No one's disputed that!]] There is, as has been said, no further disposal of untreated waste onto landfills. 90 percent of settlement waste is recycled – 50 percent material, 40 percent thermal. This is necessary in the urban area for district heating, because it is harder to build biomass plants here. In the separate collection of waste from households and households, the share has increased by 24 percent since 2004. [[Abg. May. Brunner: What does that mean now? We don't have to... do more?]] In the case of electrical and electronic devices, Austria exceeds the value of the European Union by miles. In the EU, the value is determined to collect 4 kilograms per head, in Austria it is 9.32 kilograms. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Then you can quit anyway if everything is so great!]] You just need to take note of the latest news. You can be proud of it in Austria! The European Commission has reviewed and notes that Austria is a leader in the recycling of old vehicles. [[Abg. May. Brunner: Then read your own answer!]] We are the first in Europe with 97 percent recycling – no one will do that! [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Why? Because we have the Voest and the steel industry!]] I am therefore surprised that you are not talking about Austria in this area, right up to the area of food that Mr Schultes has rightly referred to, where a lot of food goes into the trash. Here, by the European Commission, an independent Commission notes that Austria, Germany and Sweden are in a very good way to avoid this problem and that we are the most efficient and the best on the go. That does not mean that we stop, but that does not mean that Austria is on a wrong path, but, on the contrary, that much has been achieved. [[Abg. May. Brunner: Oja!]] And we also want to keep this high standard, even if you do not want to take note of it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e26769	Mr Hornek has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e26790	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Appreciate Members of Parliament! Ladies and gentlemen! I came into politics as an environmental congregation, and one of the first tasks we had in my home community was the realization of the waste prevention and reduction concept of the market community of Kautzen. You can see that the citizens of my home community were already green, because the greens were still colourless. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Home garbage on landfills and valuables on landfills – a matter of course in the past. In the meantime, it has generally been established that waste is valuable in the wrong place and that waste is implemented accordingly in the course of endogenous processes and added new uses. It is a matter of course in my home region that a waste collection centre is established in each municipality and that the materials are reused in a perfectly separate way. Ladies and gentlemen! Austria can make a proud assessment in this area. We have achieved that, in the period 2004-2010 alone, the volume of waste was reduced by 34 percent. We have achieved that 90 percent of the settlement waste will be reused, 50 percent of which will be recycled by substance – Mr Pirklhuber, be careful! –, and 40 percent are reasonably energetic, thermally burned, and it produces electricity and heat. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: I'll be careful.]] [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Have you ever heard of any material chain?]] Mr Pirklhuber, I am very well aware of this, as opposed to you. The fact is that it is much wiser to use the already attacked waste thermally than to bury it under the ground and produce old material and new old loads. [[Abg. May. Brunner: It is even wiser to avoid him!]] [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: It's forbidden to bury!]] The fact is, Austria uses the best technology to envy us from other countries. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: You know just as I know that burying is forbidden! Don't talk like that...!]] That is absolutely right, but this is still happening in other countries. In Austria this is absolutely not the case, there is no untreated waste on landfills. The fact is that Austria can be seen as an example in Europe, and we can be proud of it together.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e26886	Now comes Mr Mag. That's right. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e26907	Madam President. Mr. Minister! I too cannot understand the excitement of the Greens. The Minister has already tried to explain – in two minutes I will most likely not succeed, I can still try –: In future, Europe will focus more on waste prevention, we will implement the Waste Framework Directive with the law to be adopted today, and yet your side will be watered polemically in this direction. [[Abg. May. Brunner: Then you apparently didn’t read it! We do!]] We are also for less waste, we are also for multi-way links, as are you. There is indeed this motion for a resolution which will be adopted today. There will be results by mid-2011. Here we are d’accord with you. The reasons for the introduction of multi-way bottles, which you call, are also clear to us, and we are fully behind them. We're for less waste, which is what comes out. We're for resource conservation. We are in favour of increasing climate protection, which is because multi-way links require less energy. [[Abg. May. Brunner: And more garbage burning!]] We are also of the opinion – Mr Bayr has just explained – that several-way links of course require a smaller radius. This will also promote regional filling plants, the regional economy. So we're actually there, and I'd like the opposition, so in this case the greens, but please that we work there and maybe improve some. To the liberals I may say – Mr. Strache is not here now –... – Oh, greeting God, Mr. Colleague Strache! [[Interruption of the third-last bank series and with abg. Dr. Hübner speaking Abg. Street@item incidence access is by owner only]] Your colleague, Mr Hofer, has tabled an application under item 17 and he also reflects how you are doing in the same way: You demand more control, which of course requires more government officials, but in the same breath you demand that the number of government officials be reduced, and you are yelling at the ink castles, as someone who has already died has always done. [[Abg. New builder: terrible! The typical SPÖ thinking! It's hard to demand control, it's got to be the public hand!]] This shows how contradictory you argue. I ask you to bring more materiality and more honesty into the debate, because honesty requires You yourself, too, and that is a high value for me. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e26976	Mr Rädler has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e26997	Madam President. Federal Minister! Yes, actually, we could all be very proud if we had the list... – Yes, yes, I am coming to you. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: What was that? Did I question?]] No, you don't need to get upset now, I'm coming to you, Mr Pirklhuber. But now we are proud of Austria and our Minister of State, of the successes in the prevention of waste, the list he has presented. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] But in principle, it doesn't matter what you're going to do: There's only more polemics from the greens. Mrs Brunner, with her childish comments and her already very exhausted conclusions, which she makes here again and again, I will come to speak. The liberals have actually said why they are against the law, only: I don't understand. If Mr Jannach places himself here at the speaker's desk on the side of the road hauliers, I wonder: Is environmental policy? If Mr Jannach is concerned about the communities, because the local government says that there can be problems with us that it costs something – well, that can't be environmental policy either. As mayor I must tell you, dear friends of the liberals, but also of the Greens: You're just always talking, you're always on the agenda, but I've never experienced you in the implementation. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: In Upper Austria we are in charge and have shown that we are bringing something forward!]] In Upper Austria, yes, there is no longer the plastic sackerl, thank God, because the instigator is there. I see. Only, the implementation takes place in the communities, and we must confess to environmental policy! And the waste prevention strategy that we are now introducing at European level according to the model of Austria has begun this prevention strategy in the communities 30 years ago. There's really not the greens yet. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Not in Parliament, but it has given it! They were very active at the time!]] And all the environmentally conscious mayors – and I count on this because I am mayor in an environmental model community and also, because Mrs Brunner has addressed this, is active in an initiative against a waste burning plant – have done so for a long time and are doing it every day. We are glad that there is now a legal basis for the electronic act because we carry out more monitoring because we can document it on the municipal offices and carry out the control there, in the interests of the citizens. [[Abg. May. Brunner: What do you say about it...?]] Now I am not saying anything about this polemic, Mrs Brunner. Think about your conclusions to the Federal Minister! Otherwise, we also need to introduce conclusions to you, but we do not want to do so for that reason. [[Abg. May. Brunner: It's free for you!]] Once again, I say it: Protect the trees, eat more beavers!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e27096	Mrs Gessl-Ranftl is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e27118	Madam President. Minister! High house! Since the so-called plastic sackerl is to be banned in Italy too – one has already heard this from colleague Brunner and Minister Berlakovich – such measures are also discussed in Austria. And if you look at today’s survey of the “standard”, after which at least 60 percent voted for a ban, it becomes clear that the population is for a ban. In Austria, around 350 million plastic sacks are produced per year, and that in turn causes, I believe, high levels of waste. I am glad that a drugstore chain in Austria has already announced that it will not be able to use plastic sacks in the future and that it will force multi-way packaging. In another trade chain, there are already bags made of bio plastic. There must be a general rethinking of packaging, and therefore, I believe, incentives must be created for trade, so that it can be forced by itself from more environmentally friendly packaging materials. If you look at the proportion of multi-way packaging in mineral water over several years, you have to find that it has fallen massively. The trend now goes to plastic disposable bottles, which ultimately, and we all know, land in the yellow ton. We have no legal regulations in Austria yet. We have a voluntary agreement with the economy, but it shows that this voluntary will has not been a major success for ten years. Finally, Mr Minister, I appeal to you that there must be a rethinking here in order to protect the next generation from garbage mountains. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e27151	Next speaker: Mr Peter Mayer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e27175	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I think all colleagues agree: Avoiding goes before disposal, and the best garbage is the one that doesn't even come about. I agree here with the cynical comparison with the great desire in the population for the administrative reform. We politicians also promise again and again, yes, something has to happen and there we do something. That is why I do not understand that we are always able to demand new laws and regulations before we even look at what the current legal situation gives rise to certain issues at all. For example, in the last Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, I have experienced the two requests made by Mr Hofer, who on the one hand calls for a reporting obligation to the municipality where the waste collector is to report what he is storing. The waste balance sheet regulation is already the legal basis for each waste collector to report to the state government, what he is storing at the sites, and the municipality can obtain the information immediately upon request. The same is true of the request that waste collection sites be controlled at shorter intervals. – There is also the legal basis for controlling the interval depending on the risk. There may already be the case that even within 14 days the camps will be controlled. I would like to say that the legal provisions are certainly sufficient. That is why we have also rejected these two requests, because in the administration too: Avoiding getting rid of it. I would ask you to take this into account in future requests. You could save a lot of paper there, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e27215	Mr Neubauer spoke in favour of an actual correction. Mr deputies, you know the rules. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e27239	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mrs Gessl-Ranftl has said in her statement that since the ban on plastic sacks in Italy, the subject has also been discussed in Austria. I am correcting this as follows: Mr Delegate Ing. Hofer has already submitted two applications for the abolition of the plastic sack here in 2007. Since then, this has been discussed, but you have not responded.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e27266	Now comes Mr. Ing. Lugar speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e27288	Madam President. Minister! I have now made my speech, because I can see a tendency here that is causing me a problem. Whenever criticism of the ÖVP or a minister of the ÖVP is practised, the whole is associated with a criticism of Austria. So if we – and we do this again and again, not only from the BZÖ, but also from the liberals or the Greens – remind the Minister in the Committee or here in plenary that he is most welcome to see the environmental agents in accordance, then it is immediately said that Austria is being criticized here, Austria is being mistreated. That is to say, an immunization tactic is applied here, which is not worthy of my view of a minister. [[Intrusions of the Abg. Grandruck.]] Mr Minister, if you look at the figures, you have to say quite openly and honestly that there is still a lot to do. If the Greens are now producing here and saying that in the field of multi-way links there is still a lot to do that there is still a lot to do in the area of waste prevention, and then you are producing and saying here, that is pure polemics, that is criticism of Austria and other things, then that is, as I said, not worthy of a minister. That is why, Mr Minister, you should really deal more closely with the needs of this country and, above all, with the environmental needs. [[Interference of Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich.]] If you're talking about recycling being forced in Austria again and again, then I have to stop it, recycling is no longer possible. And you know that too. But you mix these terms over and over again. If we talk about multi-way, you talk about recycling. That's not the same thing. That is, if we want more use in bottles and you're talking about using them thermally, then that's not the same thing, and you know that too. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich: I never claimed that!]] Yes, I do. In your speech – I have written along – you have always brought this connection. Mr Minister, in the end this is about: If you are talking about recycling 60 percent of the waste, that means that we do not reuse 40 percent. [[Abg. Großruck: The top principle is to avoid!]] That's exactly what it's all about. It is a question of improving the quota of wastes that we do not re-use, and there is, in fact, a good means. And what does it mean if we create appropriate legal framework conditions here in order not to allow the niche product to become a niche product, as it has been in the past? [[Congratulations on BZÖ and Greens.]] Another point on plastic sackerl. Mr Minister, you are talking about thousands of tons of plastic sackerls in Austria and are selling us the fact that you are no longer digging this in the ground as great success. So who else needs a plastic sack these days? There are enough alternatives to the plastic sackerl. If you ban the plastic sackerl today, there would be no one going away because, as I said, there are enough alternatives. Environmental protection would be quite simple without a loss of quality for the consumer. That is why, Minister, do not take every criticism of your work personally! It is not a Majesty's policy if we remind you that you are the Minister for the Environment. We do not criticize Austria, we criticize you because in some areas you simply do too little. That is why, Minister: Go to work and do something!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e27361	Next speaker: Mr Plessl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e27383	Madam President. Estimated Minister for the Environment! Ladies and gentlemen! The waste management innovation to be decided today is another step in the right direction. In particular, the new European Waste Framework Directive has changed and adapted individual areas. I would like to take out one particular area here, which is the five-stage waste hierarchy. The Minister has already made a clear statement on this. This is an important step in the right direction. The top priority is waste prevention followed by preparation for reuse, recycling, other material recovery and disposal. You see, we've changed a lot positively. However, a much more controversial part is the area of packaging and multi-way links. There is a motion for a resolution to that effect. We need further discussions here to ensure broad agreement. Let me, however, say a few words specifically from my regional policy experience as mayor with regard to the existing opposition requests. This novel is – and this has already been addressed a few times – not about the promotion of waste tourism, but quite the contrary! This is about the verifiability of the load which is being improved. That's important! At large distances, i.e. cross-border transport, there is the requirement that these transports be carried out only by rail. This is now possible. It is social reality that garbage is produced in most regions of the world. That's why there are problems with fine dust, with ozone pollution. We need to take further steps to this end. I am also quite clear that it is preferable for the waste to be recycled here in Austria and recycled with our know-how before this takes over the neighboring community, the neighboring state and causes damage to our regions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e27422	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Lettenbichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e27443	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! I am right in one point to my predecessor from the BZÖ, there is always something to do. Of course, there is always something to do, but we must also note that we are living in an environmental model country in Austria. I am not going to let this country go bad – and that will raise a cry again from you. There are millions of guests, from holidaymakers to Austria every year. There are several rankings where Austria is among the top 5 to 7 states in this world. One aspect, of course, is the high quality of life and the high environmental standards. We have clean air, clean water. We live in a very, very beautiful country. The Minister for the Environment has already tried several times in his remarks to perhaps convince the Greens of the concept of waste prevention or at least to induce them to listen. But they don't want to listen, they can't listen. They have their position, which we accept. You must also accept our position. I hear bans now and again. I say it's always better to enter into a dialogue. As the Minister has said, let us also enter into a dialogue with the economy and trade. There are many examples of how waste prevention can take place. In Tyrol, there is an example where the MPREIS trading chain has developed together with the BIO brand of BERG compostable Sackerl. These consist of corn and potato starch and decay or rot after a few weeks. It doesn't always have to be a punishment, a control, it doesn't always have to be bans as the Greens always want. There are, of course, also the powerful citizens. In food markets, it was examined which bottles the consumer takes: to multi-way bottles or disposable bottles. The fact is that 80 percent of consumers use disposable bottles. Now you can have a joy or not. However, if you have such a high proportion of disposable bottles, then the most important thing is that they are recycled. We have a percentage of over 90 percent. It is a very good percentage that we have achieved. We see that the citizen is That's enough. So we don't need radical regulation and not always punishment. Let us see that we can achieve a good solution in a dialogue. – Thank you for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e27486	Next speaker: Deputy Duster. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e27507	Madam President. Dear Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Last but not least, I can also agree to the choir of my responsible and also environmentally conscious mayors, all of whom have already stressed the importance of waste prevention for us in the communities, because we are on the spot those who have to ensure that the waste is disposed of accordingly. I think that a very important element in this matter is also the clarification, the information of the parish citizens. In particular, the education in schools plays a particularly important role, because the little children, I think, are already raising adults a little so that the separation works so that the waste is properly delivered. I think if we continue this step, then we are on a good path. But what we must not lose sight of is always the cost, because it can happen that people, when they discuss with them, say that if the waste charges are getting higher and higher, then perhaps we will get rid of the waste somewhere in the forest sometime or other. And that is definitely to be avoided. That's why we both need: Avoiding, informing, but also dealing with the costs. Thank you, Minister, and support us!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e27544	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur's final word is not wanted. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First, we come to the vote on the draft federal law amending the Waste Management Act, including the title and receipt in 1005 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at the third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to a sign. – In turn, this is the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall vote on the resolution attached to the Committee's report 1040 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who stand up for this to be a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. (E 141.) We shall vote on the request of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of its report 1041 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this to give a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We now proceed to the vote on the request from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of its report 1042 of the additions. Whoever gives his consent, I ask him for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Finally, we shall vote on the request of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of its report 1043 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this to give a sign. – In turn, this is accepted by a majority. [[21:33:17]] 19. Point Report of the Committee on Economic and Industrial Affairs on the report of the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs, Family and Youth on the situation of small and medium-sized enterprises in 2010 (III-188/996 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e27643	We're entering the 19th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. We are going into the debate. First of all, Mr Themessl. I'll set the clock up to 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e27673	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Shortly ahead: We will reject the 2010 SME Report. That does not mean, however, that everything contained in this mid-term report is also really bad. There are things that are very positive. It is also clear from this report that the massive funds used to deal with the economic crisis have also worked in sub-areas and arrived where they were needed, which naturally resulted in our having to deal with over-indebtedness. But under the rule it is also clear that of course there are a lot of negatives in this report. This report is directed towards the EU, which, within the meaning of the Small Business Act adopted in December 2008, compares ten points of enterprise or SME funding in individual EU Member States. What is striking here is that we are already in one, two areas top due to the measures we have put in place, but that we are in very many areas below the EU average. I can lead you a few things. For example, in point 4.1 Entrepreneurship is below average in four out of eight areas Austria. 4.2 Second chance of insolvency: The costs associated with the closure are much higher in Austria than in the European average. 4.3 Progress for SMEs: The administrative problems are much greater in Austria than in other EU countries. However, what is serious is that in the case of other projects that have been announced there or which would have been explained there, there are almost all points: not set out. Point 2: Other projects: not specified. Point 3: Other projects: not specified. Point 4: Other projects: not specified. – And that’s how it works at almost all points. This means that although this government reacts in the short term to the economic crisis, has provided funds and decided on economic packages, it has no visions and ideas as to how this will continue in the future. One of the most serious points is point 4.6 financing SMEs. We have the fatal situation that we have been pointing out for months that we are simply suffering from a credit clamp. That is to say, the Austrian state has thrown down billions of banks, but the banks have not been willing to provide the economy with funds for investment as appropriate, or as always you would like to call it. Three-quarters of companies did not make any or only very small investments in 2009 according to their own data. A third of the entrepreneurs complain that the chances of getting a loan were practically zero. Mr Jury from our group will then also tell you clearly how this has affected in the meantime. But the end of the day is that this government has no future ideas, no visions of how to better support SMEs in the future in order to create equal opportunities between the large industry, the industrial association and the representatives of small and medium-sized enterprises. I hope that there will be more effort from the Minister of Economic Affairs or the responsible Secretary of State to ensure that the SME report for the year 2011 is perhaps such that small and medium-sized enterprises can make themselves hope again for the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e27721	Mr Steindl is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e27743	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen in the House! First of all, thank you to the ladies and gentlemen in the Ministry for the truly comprehensive 2010 mid-sized report, which gives a detailed insight into the state of the Austrian small and medium-sized economy in many details. The importance of these small and medium-sized enterprises is a very special feature for us as well as in Europe. We have around 299 000 businesses in Austria, which account for 57 percent of gross social product with two thirds of the workforce. The small and medium-sized economy is simply the pillar of our economy. My previous speaker said that the measures in the time of the economic crisis, the corresponding economic packages, helped to keep employment in the small and medium-sized economy in the end. In addition, it must be noted that entrepreneurs, in particular: Small and medium-sized enterprises have a very close relationship and a very close relationship with their employees, who are often active in the same business for decades, and do everything they can to obtain their job many years in their business even in difficult times. Of course, the business situation is not quite as pleasing to the small and medium-sized economy. We see, on the basis of the results of SME Research Austria, that unfortunately the profit margin is narrowing. We have an average margin of 1.5 to 3.5 percent, depending on the size of the companies. The bigger cut off a little better. In the best case of the profit margin, the freelancers cut off: Freelance professionals such as lawyers, business loyals or doctors have the best results of small and medium-sized enterprises. Since, I believe, we must also make every effort to ensure that, in future, there will be redundancies in the area of additional wage and salary costs. The competitive and cost pressures are enormous – also the competitive pressure of the shadow economy – and therefore some European countries have already agreed to do so, have implemented appropriate programmes and have developed reliefs in VAT or corresponding craft bonus activities. I believe that this should also be considered by Austria in the next few years. The insolvency statistics are much better in Austria than in the European average. In this difficult time, we also had an increase of about 9.3 percent, but at European level this was at least 35 percent. Ladies and gentlemen! My previous speaker spoke to the European Union: The Small Business Act is a commitment to the small and medium-sized economy, which is defined by the European level, and yet I can point out that this is not always the case. I am thinking only of the fact that the Commission has just followed lobbyists before the end of 2010, that the block exemption regulation for the car economy has been overduely eliminated and that, in turn, the large industrial enterprises can gain much more power in the broad market of the car sector. Finally, ladies and gentlemen: A significant part is administrative costs. That's where we should try to relieve the companies. We have 5 700 information obligations in Austria, which cost about €4.3 billion; A total of 230 million times a year, Austrian entrepreneurs have to comply with the corresponding obligations. I believe that the administrative reform is once again a command of the hour, and I believe that only with a competitive economy and with a competitive administration can the overall competitiveness be maintained. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e27801	Mr Jury is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e27822	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Konrad Steindl, which I really appreciate very much, belongs to the circle of ÖVP grand and mandatare, who always talk. Konrad Steindl, I hear the message well, only I lack faith. I'm just saying, Administrative reform. This mid-term report shows very well that, in Austria, the employment of SMEs in total has fallen from 80 percent to 64 percent within 10 years and that the share of SMEs' GDP revenue has fallen from approximately 76 percent to less than 60 percent within 10 years. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Whether such figures are already ringing in my mind, because this economic policy of the European Union is only more encouraging to industry – and we know the consequences of this in economic policy, in agricultural policy, in industry: There are contaminated foods, there are no jobs on the land, the goods are being shipped across Europe and carnaged with trucks, and the climate balance is burdened. This is the policy of the past that has to be accounted for by red and black. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, we are on the road with this economic policy and with this agricultural policy. We urgently need a turnaround in economic policy and agricultural policy! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We have already heard this very delicate plant in the economy this morning. But what about our government? – By increasing the oil tax, these small and medium-sized enterprises are being re-run, and the consumer is subsequently exhausted. This delicate plant of economics is deliberately strangled by the government parties. In this sense, ladies and gentlemen, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Abg. Dr. Bartenstein: What? Are you still with senses?]] [[Quoted print version removed]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Hörl: Home to Gmünd!]] My dear colleague Hörl, unlike you, I like to drive home to Gmünd, because the world is still in order there! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, take care of the order you received from the population, and rule! Make politics for and not against the Austrian population!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e27915	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e27993	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Matznetter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e28014	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Because of the advanced hour, I'll do it briefly. The report shows us nothing but what a powerful part of the Austrian economy we have in the field of SMEs. On the other hand, I am very grateful to this multitude of entrepreneurs, women and men, which are already a large part of the women, who have proved throughout the crisis that such a colorful meadow, as it is the Austrian economy, which consists not only of three or four large farms, is also a robust backbone with which in economically difficult times it can be maintained almost full employment. – That's part one. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] Part two – and I say this at the same time, because we have to think about the future –: What we see in this area, and this report is also a dramatic one for us, is that they do not have it easily. We will have to consider what we can do in order to open up more opportunities here in the area of financing over the good initiatives that we have put in place during the crisis – I only remember the SME measures we have put forward over the AWS. This means further improvements for founders, i.e. investment benefit and aid, but also funding support. I invite you to all of this area: In tax reform, let us think about what we can do in addition for businesses, how we reduce the cost of the labour factor and how we can do this in budgetary difficult times. I invite everyone to spend their brains narrow for it, always connected to the appeal: Perhaps we can also delete some exceptions for small groups and thus achieve large-scale financing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e28057	Mr Podgorschek has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e28079	High house! Estimated colleague Matznetter! You're perfectly right: It is easy for SMEs to have it, and I am very happy to accept your invitation. Finally, I come from SMEs and know how it really works for businesses. I would also like to break a lance for small and medium-sized enterprises, because they are really the most important part of our economy: Two thirds of the employees have their jobs in SMEs, and they have the highest tax revenue, but they basically do not have the lobby that would be available to them. [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: No, no! You don't have to worry about that!]] I am a member of the Federal Chamber of Commerce myself, not afraid! But – I ask in here – has anyone ever made an Eurostat notification? - Yes, very well! [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: Yes, many! Own and also...!]] I also did a lot of things, but I just did it for my own business. You often sit over it for hours! Or when you open a new business: What is involved in the conditions on the farms, and some of the aid is very poor. Additional costs arise again and again, of course we as the National Council accordingly... – Yes, the founding service exists, I know, I have used it myself, and yet you have to be yourself behind it and follow it all! [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] And have you ever considered what it means when we repeatedly adopt laws that also concern SMEs? – I’m just thinking about the transparency database. We will probably have to create some sort of list or statistics again. And there is now the salary disclosure law – and again lists, lists, lists. It is clear to me that the economy has to be partly controlled, but it must always be borne in mind that when we adopt laws, the economy will not be taxed in addition. It must be a command of the hour that SMEs are more burdened and not burdened. [[Complementary of the Abg. Gartelgruber.]] If there is a consensus on this, I am willing to cooperate in this direction.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e28148	Mrs Lichtenecker has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e28169	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The SME report clearly shows the importance, the importance of the small and medium-sized economy in Austria, gross value added, employment, and that is also good. In an accurate analysis, it is also seen that there is quite a need for improvement. I would like to address three points in this regard. The first point concerns the fact that the smallest companies and the one-person companies make up a large part of these enterprises, but the analysis is too short, which they really need, which is necessary where the financing needs lie. . I think we should be here together, and I will also start this initiative, making a request for a report of my own. They know from many discussions that the data situation and the findings are not very significant and there is a need for improvement, because especially the smallest and the one-person companies had a lot to fight in the crisis, but were largely very successful. And when I was only last week from an entrepreneur whose operation has become the micro-enterprise of the one-person company, because three employees were recruited, I hear that she went to the bank because of the funding and a bank actually asked: Well, don't you have any security, for example, the savings book of the grandmother?, then that's not a refreshing sign at all. As for the railways, it is very knowledgeable entrepreneur. I think that these are areas where we need improvement, and so in this context I am in the same way with the funding landscape. It was only last year that a working group consisting of WIFO, Court of Auditors, government debt committee and IHS on the topic of efficient funding – efficient funding also in economic support. There have been clearly different areas such as the dual track, the inconsistency of the funding landscape, of course also the high transaction costs of the public hand and, of course, areas where the question arises of how efficient the rails are. Isn't there enough transport effects? Mrs State Secretary, take along the following points: These are areas that need to be addressed! These are hot irons, that is not a question, because this is also a question of country competence, and it is quite possible that one or the other can be brought together in an efficient grouping. I would like to stress here that in Austria we also have quite good funding instruments and funding agencies that work efficiently in large parts, yet, I believe, it is now about simplification, concentration and that not only is the talk about the one-stop-shop, but it is actually being pushed forward. The third area is mentioned in the SME report on sustainability, the environment and energy. There are two indicators. Ladies and gentlemen! Listen carefully, because I find this very exciting, especially in the light of the background that Austria – Minister Berlakovich has demonstrated it again before – is called an environmental model country. But in the case of these two indicators, which apply across the EU, namely the share of SMEs with comprehensive energy efficiency measures, Austria is on the average, or in the case of simple energy saving measures, there are Austrian companies in the European medium-sized sector. Now I believe that our companies are very willing to cooperate, to take advantage of the opportunities, to save costs, to create jobs, only to make consulting services more effective, to become more concentrated and to pool various funding rails. The home market needs to be strengthened – that is, we are in the process of a total reform of the eco electricity law – and, ladies and gentlemen, to strengthen the home market, also with a wage reduction, which is best achieved with the green model of eco-social tax reform. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Bartenstein]] So this is a lot of points that, as I believe, need to be addressed and which certainly contribute to strengthening the Austrian economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e28233	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Widmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e28255	Madam President. High house! First of all, thank you for preparing the report on the situation of SMEs, because it is a very good basis for discussing further measures and evaluations. SMEs are undoubtedly the backbone of our economy. It has already been said: Two thirds of employees work there, and 99.6% of enterprises are SMEs. What do SMEs need? – The central question is not just to fix an ist stand, but to derive from what they really need. And that's the same thing. the first criticism: The figures you find in this report are partly going back to 2007, so they are already three years old, actually more than old. The SMEs need qualified employees, and so we would have come to the education discussion, where the university landscape in Austria was discussed – and you know which construction site it is. SMEs need less bureaucracy. – On average, the approval process around the creation of Europe lasts 17 days; in Austria, which is apparent from the report, it takes 28 days, almost twice as long. SMEs need support in support. – Although we have the AWS and we have also discussed the FFG in the field of research and development, my predecessor has already mentioned it: Especially in R & D there are many double-tracks, there are no clearly formulated targets, there is no real evaluation that also implements the results that are already on the table. That means you could do a lot here. And again and again, it is heard from small businesses that access to funding is difficult in the field of R & D and that the research premium is more of a premium, which in particular benefits large companies, which also confirms and proves the figures. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] In this context, I can also mention that the AWS SME Fund, which has been involved in the companies and which has been created to deal with the crisis, was set to zero in 2011. This means that the crisis has already survived for the ÖVP. – I wish it so; some indicators do not indicate that it is. The preface is actually written in such a way that it is a great self-esteem of the Minister of Economic Affairs. – That may be so, but let us leave the church in the village: The economic performance still provides the entrepreneur and the entrepreneur with the skilled employees in their businesses. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] It is not the government's intention to point out good figures, to refer to economic packages that have been made throughout Europe, not only here in Austria, but the figures in this report also speak a clear language. SME sales in industry and crafts: minus 2.4 percent; Development of self-employed workers in the manufacturing sector: minus 3.9 percent – the figures always refer to the period 2008 to 2009 – Development of sales in the manufacturing sector: even minus 11.9 percent; Exports 2009: minus 16.1 percent; Imports: minus 14.4 percent; Gross investment 2009: minus 8.8 percent. – These are numbers you can’t see so easily! I am already on the last major issue, which is important, that is access to capital, and access to capital in Austria is not easy for SMEs. There are many countries in Europe that have already introduced these 10 000 € schemes; we still have the minimum amount of 35 000 €. We've been through and involved in Basel II and now we've got Basel III on the eye, which in turn is a difficulty for businesses. We are receiving the EU Deposit Guarantee Directive, which will cause additional costs, and thanks to the tax blazes and our banking minister, we have also received Austrian banking tax, which will also be taxed on companies when they receive loans. The loans thus became more expensive. The last point I can address concerns the export situation. SMEs in particular do not have easy access to the new export markets. The fraction SMEs in exports is a very small, around 8 percent of the total volume; I think it is 28 percent in large enterprises. It will be necessary to put very specific emphasis on SMEs so that they can keep up with them and get in touch with them.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e28330	Ms. State Secretary Mag. Remler has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e28351	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen in the House! The present, about 200 pages of the SME report has been prepared by SMEs on behalf of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. The data used are partly from the SME Research Austria itself, partly from the Statistics Austria and the Chambers of Commerce and partly from other departments. A new structure for this SME report has been chosen this year in order to benefit more from the content for the further development of SME policy. Thus, following the usual presentation of the situation of SMEs, a chapter on the support measures for SMEs was drawn up, which for the first time was based on the ten principles of the European Union Small Business Act of December 2008. Through the new breakdown, the 2010 SME Report simultaneously informs about the implementation status of the SBA in Austria or shows how Austria is compared with Europe. What are the essential contents and statements of the 2010 SME Report? – Despite the economic crisis, corporate statistics in 2009 are not negative. With regard to 2007, the new creation rate in 2008 has increased by 8 per cent and is 7.3 per cent. In contrast, the insolvency rate remained constant at 2% in 2004 as in 2004. However, the European comparison shows that in Austria the desire to be independent is on average less. So it certainly needs more “Entrepreneurship Education” in Austria. On the other hand, it is positive that some 35 percent of the share of women in the leadership sector in Austria was above average in 2009 in Europe. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] What conclusions can we draw from the 2010 SME Report? – The data show that SMEs in Austria have been relatively stable due to the crisis. Various measures such as the 2009 SME package, improved AWS financing opportunities, new funding rails, eco-premie or thermal rehabilitation have contributed to this situation. What are the planned priorities in the next few months? – First of all, the continuation of thermal renovation, the focus on R&D funding for market-oriented applied research in SMEs, as well as support for export orientation through "go international" or an internationalisation offensive. In this context, let me refer briefly to the new figures now available, based on the December forecast and coming from the Institute for the Research of SMEs AUSTRIA. For 2010, real GDP growth is expected to rise by 2 percent. Real growth of 2.2 and 2 percent is forecast for 2011 and 2012. In the third quarter, the rate of unemployment in relation to the previous year is 8.7% could be reduced. After a significant decline in the first quarter, the gross investment volume increased significantly in the two subsequent quarters of 2010, by 5.3 percent and 4.4 percent. I can tell you, Mr Themessl, that there will be a broader outlook on the future of the SME report in the future. As suggested by Mrs Lichtenecker, the next mid-term report will also address the EPUs in greater detail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e28409	Next speaker: Mr Haubner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e28440	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! I can handle myself relatively briefly. – The SME report impressively shows the achievements of the Austrian small and medium-sized economy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Singer.]] I have already mentioned it this morning and can now add a current number: In 2010, 29 200 SMEs created 66 000 new jobs. I believe that this shows the great importance of these small and medium-sized enterprises. If you know that four women were women at the start-up in 2010 of ten entrepreneurs, then this is very encouraging. I think that progress has also been made in this direction. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I can make it short: I agree with Mr Podgorschek, who spoke about bureaucracy, about filling out forms and statistics, and he said that one should compress this a little bit, that we should reduce bureaucracy in this area. There's really something we should think about. I'm sure I'm a partner for that. As far as I'm concerned, I'm always saying, more imagination, less bureaucracy. We should also support small and medium-sized enterprises in the near future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e28483	Now comes Mr Mag. Kuzdas. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e28504	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! From the mid-sized report, which describes the situation of small and medium-sized enterprises, you can read a lot, but, gentlemen of the opposition, as bad as you quoted it – but it was not a lady of opposition at the speaker's desk – as bad as you do, you really can't represent it. [[Abg. Singer: Ladies too, please!]] I think you can read a lot of positive things in this report. The situation of small and medium-sized enterprises is not as bad as some opposition speakers have described. I would also like to mention that the Federal Government's packages of action were correct and have also taken a great deal of action. We thought about it in good time: Are we investing in employment and in the future, or are we only paying unemployment transfers? Today, we know that we have made the right decisions, for example, the economic packages, the labour market package or, and that also needs to be mentioned, the tax reform and major wage closures 2008, 2009. Why? – Because this is not only about export, but also about domestic demand. And domestic demand has remained high due to wage policy and tax reform. This, in turn, has created demand and employment. What was also important – and this must also be mentioned – is the increase in the threshold for direct procurement. This has made it easier for the municipalities in particular to award contracts. And who are the contractors of the communities? – Mostly small and medium-sized enterprises. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] There are still many examples to be mentioned. Of course, it's not all in the optimal range, that's perfectly clear. There is much else to make it easier for SMEs to live, for example in the trade regulations, by relieving the work factor, but also in dealing with procedures with the authorities. There are district captains as commercial authorities who mean: We understand ourselves as a partner of the economy. – This idea must prevail so that we can ensure that the engine of small and medium-sized enterprises, the engine of the economy, continues to grow as well as before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e28547	Mr Bartenstein has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e28568	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! High house! In the short term, only two thoughts: The middle class is fine. I am of the same opinion as Mr Matznetter, who meant that the middle class had a significant part in carrying Austria through the crisis. However, I think we should draw the further conclusion from this. What brings Austria to the fore at the moment; by the way, together with Germany? – There are essentially three economic elements that distinguish Austria and also Germany, which others do not have to this extent. This is the middle class, the medium-sized economy, which is certainly also the industry – a little bigger – and that is the export that, if you want to, both operate. That makes us stronger than others. This leads us towards 3 percent growth. We should always take this into account when we make policy – and that is what I am thinking about the second. It's all right, Mrs. Lichtenecker, that the opposition still sings the praise of the middle class today. On the one hand, they sing the praise of the middle class, but on the other hand they demand an extension of the Ecostrom Act. This means nothing more than higher electricity costs – and this, Mrs Lichtenecker, in turn, hits the middle class, is anti-medial. You too, Mr Jury, sang the praise of the middle class, but also submitted a motion for a resolution calling for an official regulation of petrol and diesel prices. That doesn't even require the AK again. This was not even what the AK demanded 20 years ago, but the Freedom Party demands it. - That's regulatory. This hinders the middle class, in particular the thousands of medium-sized gas station operators. Sing not only the praise of the middle class, but also act politically, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e28610	Mrs Hakel has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e28632	As one of the last speakers, I should like to sum up briefly what we have heard several times. Austria is an innovative country, 49 percent of SMEs in Austria are involved in innovation processes, and we can be very proud of that. Austria is also well placed in terms of internationality. And it's like this: The potential for the future of some sectors depends largely on the expansion of exportability. In the creative economy in particular, good and higher support is needed. In the creative economy, it is not primarily about export of goods, but about export of ideas. And you have to start there, bring companies together and exchange ideas. However, a good start for greater internationalisation of SMEs in the creative economy is definitely – and I would like to thank the Minister for Economic Affairs – the €19 million of the “go international” funding initiative of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. The planned one-stop shop principle is also very pleasing. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: We've been talking about this for ten years!]] – But now, hopefully, it will be implemented. With this reduction in bureaucratic barriers for young entrepreneurs and startups, the Federal Government has taken an important step towards the economy of tomorrow, as a strong creative economy will continue to secure Austria's economic location in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e28666	Mrs Fürntrath-Moretti is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e28688	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! High house! In view of the late hour, I take a short break. The essential thing has already been said by my previous speakers, namely that we really have to say a sincere thank you to entrepreneurs in this country – we cannot say that often enough – because they have brought us through the crisis so great. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The second is: Of course, we must also look to the future, and we must finally manage to implement a corresponding administrative reform. That's what red tape is about. This is undisputed, but let us all take back a little bit and consider what we are doing in the individual parliamentary sessions. – Ladies and gentlemen, we are adopting laws! Today alone, we have passed laws that bring about a rat's tail of administrative burden. And that burdenes us outside the economy, that's why we're not that powerful either. Please consider in the future: What do we decide, what follow-up costs do we have?, because if we can avoid bureaucracy, we will strengthen our medium-sized economy! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e28726	Mr Kirchgatterer is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e28747	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I would like to address a few points which have not yet been mentioned, but which are important in practice. On the one hand: What about the self-employed, the entrepreneurs of small and medium-sized enterprises with social security? How does that look in the case of illness? How does old age insurance look? What do the average pensions look like? I believe that this too should be taken into account. It has been criticized that the urge for independence in other European countries is greater. – This too could be a point to be included in the discussion. Another point: Vocational training. – The debate on school reform is also very important for small and medium-sized enterprises. It is about the need for day-to-day schools to cover the need for the New Middle School. I am very glad that Minister of Labour Hundstorfer very positively assessed the dual training that the appreciation of dual training with our Minister of Labour Dog Torfer has experienced an increase. This is important for small and medium-sized enterprises. One more point: The 2008 tax reform was a tax reform for small and medium-sized enterprises, and I am convinced that the tax reform towards 2013 will also be a tax reform for small and medium-sized enterprises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e28788	Mrs Franz is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e28809	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! High house! Yes, the middle class has borne us through the crisis. We can say proudly – the figures speak for themselves – that this is the right thing, because we owe our stability and our new economic growth to small and medium-sized enterprises. The report for 2009 shows us that 99.6 percent of Austrian companies, which is almost 300 000, fall into this category. About two thirds of all workers, 62 percent of all workers, are employed. These farms are not only the rock in the economy, but they contribute significantly to the quality of life, especially in rural areas. There, a secure infrastructure is important which is primarily ensured by small and medium-sized enterprises. It is often the family businesses that are anchored in these small and medium-sized enterprises. Family businesses have great advantages over non-family businesses. They are characterized by a strong personal commitment and by high identification. We thank the many entrepreneurs who have also invested in spite of the crisis. But thanks also to the Federal Government, which through the two economic packages has ensured the stability of the Austrian economy.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e28845	Next speaker: Mr. Hörl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e28867	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Thank you very much for this report, which is very interesting. I would like to express my express thanks to the officials in your ministry, Mr Preglau, who is also here today and who is doing a very good job. [[in the direction of Secretary of State Mag. Remler]] [[Congratulation of the Abg. May. Donnerbauer.]] I'll get together. – The small and medium-sized enterprises in Austria are the backbone of our economy. They are very labour-friendly, have a family relationship in the farms, have been very active in employment and are also very successful because we have the euro area, you should never forget that. Of course, in these small businesses, where allrounder is asked where entrepreneurs have to do everything, the administration, the forms and all that has already been said today, double and triple. It would be time for us to make simplifications in this regard. I am looking forward to tax reliefs – I am very excited about your tax reform, Mr. Klubobmann Cap; I am pleased that you are constantly announcing them, and will be happy if they really come – but because we cannot make large tax promises, we should make it easier for small and medium-sized enterprises to live in the administration, in the forms. As the chairman of a district office, I can of course recommend the Chamber of Commerce as an advisory institution. I would like to thank the Austrian companies for their performance.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e28916	There's no one left to say hiezu anymore. The debate is closed. No final word is desired. We come to the vote on the request from the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy to take note of this report III-188 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of it to give a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Strutz, colleagues, on the implementation of a package of measures to relieve small and medium-sized enterprises and their employees. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. [[22:20:01]] 20. Point Report by the Committee on Tourism on Amendment 1354/A(E) by Mr Heidrun Silhavy, Mr Franz Hörl, Dr Gabriela Moser, Mr Mag. Roman Haider, Stefan Markowitz, colleagues on Europe-wide harmonisation of the hotel's internal classification systems (1058 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e28991	We're entering the 20th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. The first is Mr Hörl's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e29025	Madam President. We're talking about our five-party proposal today. I don't understand this excitement in any way. Not only since we know “Michelin”, “DuMont” and so on, since these guides have given travellers a sense of security and trust and a sense of quality, not only since then have we also known that our star classification system in Austria has proved itself well. And I would like to thank the many commissions, the many innkeepers in this country, who classify their colleagues and see that the quality fits in these houses. I think that should be extended to Europe. My colleagues will tell you the rest. - Good evening!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e29055	Next speaker: Mrs Silhavy. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e29076	Madam President. – I won't do it as short as my colleague Hörl. In 1981, the Star Qualification was introduced in Austria. Three-quarters of all farms are classified under this system. I think that's a very good sign. Nevertheless, we all know the problem when we travel to other countries when we fly to other destinations when we travel to Italy: 5 stars are not 5 stars. There are huge differences. On the one hand, this qualification is intended to ensure that we have quality assurance in the hotel industry and for them themselves. On the other hand, we all want to know that as customers we also have the certainty that we will receive a corresponding price-performance offer at the hotel that we know what we can expect from under 5 stars. Therefore, we try to get at least one qualification at European level to ensure that 5 stars are 5 stars and 3 stars 3 stars and not 3 stars anywhere else are 5 stars. With our request we support these efforts. There are now the “hotel stars” in the EU as a new movement in this direction. The objective is to cover a market of 160 million people within the EU by 2014 with the same quality criteria. I would like to thank all my colleagues in the Committee on Tourism for having succeeded in making a unanimous proposal here. I think it will be for the good of both the hotel industry and customers, and I am happy if we can make this happen together.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e29116	Now comes Mr Mag. Haider on the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e29137	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! High house! I would like to thank Mrs Silhavy, who is the initiator of this request. Europe-wide harmonisation of the hotel's internal classification systems, a 5-party application – that's what you might think, that's a clear thing, that's nothing. No, it's not that simple. Those of you in Italy – I am of course not speaking of South Tyrol, but of even further south – or also in Greece in a so-called 4-star hotel, who knows that what is there is 4 stars would probably not even get 2 stars from us. And that is really distorting competition, at the disadvantage of the Austrian tourism industry. That is why it is really important for us to make comparisons across Europe, because then the tourist insists that the offer in Austria is really cheap – that is to say, the price is worth the price. I am not yet talking about the wellness facilities, where we in Austria are really top in the world anyway. However, I would like to talk about another important issue, which is currently being discussed hot in Austrian tourism, because we had the tourism committee yesterday. Many of you have noticed in recent weeks that the Chamber of Commerce from Austria has quit advertising – one year notice period, i.e. at the end of 2011. Insiders know that, in principle, it is only about financing the foreign trade organization, where the industry has brought Leitl's President of the Chamber so far, that now at last Austria's advertising or also the Ministry of Economic Affairs not only put the rod in the window, but also really explain the withdrawal. It's about the 8 million that the board pays for advertising in Austria. They would like Austria's advertising to be paid for by the External Economic Organisation and the offices of Austria's advertising will be transferred to the External Economic Organisation. I am delighted – I do not want to say this here too – that the Minister for Economic Affairs has said quite clearly here, also yesterday in the Committee: No, it won't play. – The 8 million €, which will no longer be available from next year’s Austrian advertising, he wants to withdraw from the export initiative “go international”, which will benefit the Chamber, and place advertising in Austria. Let's see if this really happens. The chamber woke up sleeping dogs here. It does not need to be surprised if the entrepreneurs now demand disclosure of chamber finances, the proceeds of the Chamber from the expenses of tourism companies. Sleeping dogs have now awakened them, as the chamber officials do not need to wonder if they are not only banished but also bitten.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e29185	Next speaker: Mrs Dr. Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e29207	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! They experience a star hour of Parliament when a total of 13 speakers can really find themselves here about a joint five-party proposal on the topic of 5-star hotels in an incredibly broad consensus. [[Congratulation with Greens and BZÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: This is parliamentary astrology!]] That is why I am going to put a point here and come to the very core issue of what should in itself be the cosmos of tourism policy, namely: Do we have enough resources to be able to really promote these 5-star hotels worldwide? Say: Is the Austrian advertising optimally set up? We would like to discuss this more intensively, because this has really been the central issue and the real political debate over the last few days. I think we really need to talk to the Minister once again urgently about the fact that tax resources are not used in the final effect to ensure that there are economic reliefs for the board, which then invests its money in a parallel action, because it wants foreign trade policy to be somehow present in parallel to Austria's advertising. We're not playing with that! Thank you, when it comes to 5 stars, but no, thank you, when it comes to this policy of interest that is really beyond any cosmic dimension. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e29247	Next speaker: Mr Markowitz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e29269	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Of course, we will support this five-party proposal, because we think it is time to do something here. Austria does not need to hide in this regard, because we have already heard this today, our Austrian companies have invested a lot of money, especially as regards hygiene and compliance with the relevant regulations et cetera. If we look at other companies abroad that have 3 stars but would not even get 1 star from us, I think it is good that this classification is regulated throughout Europe, that many states are now involved: Switzerland, Austria, the Netherlands, Germany, the Czech Republic, the Netherlands and Sweden. I think it is absolutely right for compliance to be monitored. My question has also been raised in the Committee: Who checks this, and can we assume that all states will be checked at the same time in terms of frequency and criteria? It's about fairness, it's about a lot of money being taken into hand. That is why, I think, this is a step in the right direction so that the guest finally knows that he can expect the same thing at 5 stars in Europe, for example. Of course, there are also important things in tourism, which I must say here, for example, creating new teaching professions, attracting the teaching professions et cetera. We still have a lot to do here, there will be a lot of discussion in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. must. But today's motion for a resolution is one step in the right direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e29308	Now Mrs. State Secretary Mag. Remler to word reported. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e29329	Madam President, High house! The Austrian hotel classification provides the guests with reliable guidance and quality assurance. Responsible for the classification is the Association of Hotels of the Austrian Chamber of Commerce. Different criteria, of course, make cross-border comparability difficult, and that is why the “Hotelstars Union” was founded at the initiative of the Association of Hotels, i.e. on the initiative of Austria. ==References== January 2010 will work on a common and transparent, understandable classification system. The new star catalog contains 270 criteria, and each star stands for a clearly defined service package in supply and service and is thus a very clear quality promise. The Federal Ministry for Economic Affairs, Family and Youth, in its opinion on the European Commission's proposal to create new quality seals, pointed out that the creation of new labels is of course only useful if, in this context, they also create an actual added value for tourism, but also for tourists. Rather, the Federal Ministry referred to the already successful initiatives and called the “Hotelstars Union” a best practice. The European Commission is expected to hold a workshop on Europe-wide quality seals at the end of February, but also here the Ministry of Economic Affairs will clearly highlight the importance of respect for existing quality seals and thus support the “Hotelstars Union”. The Austrian Hotelterns are providing guidance, and especially in moving times, it has succeeded in positioning this reliable guide for the future internationally. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e29370	Mr Obernosterer has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e29391	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I do not want to repeat the words of the Secretary of State. We all know that tourism, the hotel industry has the highest standard internationally. It is good that these criteria are based on our standard and will be adhered to. We know how practice looks, that has already been said by the previous speakers and by the Secretary of State. It is not portable that various tour operators categorize the hotels themselves. If you compare the offers in the catalogues, it always occurs that it has a hotel in a catalog 5 stars and in the next catalog only 4 stars. When you look at it, how many stars the hotel has in the national catalogue, this results in a different picture again. I therefore believe that we are on the right track. We do not need to be afraid because we are a pioneer in this area anyway. But now, quite briefly, two sentences on what my previous speakers and the new chairman of the Tourism Committee have said about the financing of Austria's advertising. We really don't need to worry about this. We know the very clear statement of President Leitel, we know the very clear statement of Minister of Economic Affairs Mitterlehner: The money is guaranteed, the other is a matter of negotiation. As I said, Mr Haider, don't worry too much! We do not worry either, because there has now been an exchange of views within the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. I have to tell you quite honestly, Mr. Linder was a very good chairman. I am surprised that he is no longer worthy of being chairman in the FPÖ Group. He was good enough for me. But you too are good enough for me. And I hope that we will continue to have unanimous decisions in the Tourism Committee in the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e29433	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Lohfeyer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e29455	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! The Austrian hotel classification has a long and quite successful history and is an important instrument for ensuring quality standards in the Austrian hotel industry. At the beginning of 2010, Austria, with six European countries, defined this new common classification system for uniform standards. ==References== In January 2011, this harmonised system has already been applied in ten European countries. The aim is to implement the new system in Austria by 2014, to record 21,000 hotels and to include more EU members. This new system is more transparent, flexible and just because it means a direct comparison for tour operators and consumers. The present five-party proposal, which provides that this EU-wide harmonisation of hotel classification is supported by the Ministry and that tourism destinations are strengthened, should be supported. Not to be forgotten in the quality debate about stars and classifications is the situation of employees who make it possible for tourism quality through their services. Austria is well known as a tourist country for its quality internationally, and this high level of quality is also due to the fact that tourism has proven itself as a rock in the fire even in times of crisis. I therefore feel it is essential to invest more strongly in the wages and working conditions of those who work in the tourism and leisure industry, and to improve in this respect. In the end, it will depend above all on whether we can maintain quality and international competitiveness.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e29500	Next speaker: Mr Linder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e29563	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Gabi, don't worry! We made this up on a collegial basis. And to you, colleagues from BZÖ: It's important to me that I can decide, and not what positions I'm in. That's, I think, something very important. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Grosz: What can you decide?]] On the topic of Europe-wide harmonisation of hotels: I think that's a good thing. I wish I could and hope that the current control will also work, because this is the great danger that the hotels will once be classified and classified and then, as is often the case, the quality will disappear and the assessment will no longer be true. But for me, a much more important issue is the financing of Austrian advertising. Yesterday in the committee, I allowed myself to say that we actually have a little brother-in-law in front of us when the Chamber of Commerce and Ministers argue and lie in the hair. Both, Gabi Obernoster and the Minister of Economic Affairs, said: No, no, for God's sake, all of this has been well prepared and well spoken out. And today I read in the “Small Newspaper” that Sepp Schellhorn says: ‘Chamber has no ground liability’. And Gabi Obernosterer says: Tourism has not deserved this! He was quite surprised and knew nothing about this matter at all. Dear Gabi! You're a divisionobmann and don't even know what your own Chamber of Commerce is doing! So much to the positions and what you have to do and can achieve. - That's one. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Second: I think it's worrying when you go here and say, The €8 million we will just take out of the budget, and the Chamber will take care of export promotion and not tourism anymore. – After all, tourism pays around €100 million in forced membership contributions. And if you go here and say so salopp, the chamber doesn't do anything for tourism, then I'd ask you to think about it, Gabi. If you have a position there and, as you do, you have something to talk about, then take care that we get a corresponding performance for our 100 million €! The last thing that concerns me a little bit – I am sorry that the Minister is not here today –: An attempt is being made to impose the social tax on tourism organisations, which receive funds from the municipalities. [[Abg. Hörl: The Secretary of State is here!]] I have already talked to the Minister about the subject. – In order to finance them, they will be subject to corporate tax. Now, in principle, this is the way we are missing in tourism. However, the second thing to think about is if we had yesterday the presentation on the restructuring of Parliament and then we hear that with VAT, the advance tax is still questionable, because in principle it is like taking something out of the right pocket and putting it in the left pocket. – Yes, ladies and gentlemen, what are the municipal contributions? Just as public funds! Is there not the same principle: take out of the right pocket and put it in the left pocket? That is why, Madam Secretary of State, I ask you, Deputy Minister: Take care of this and make sure that these funds remain in the tourist organisations and that communities really are available for advertising purposes and not only are pushed by the right hand into the left pocket.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e29625	Mr Rädler is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e29646	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Mr Linder, if you start a GesmbH, make a destination, then you also have to pay taxes. So I don't understand what you meant by your last statement. Everything has already been said about the classification that has been in Austria since 1957 and has the tradition – because Austria is a tourist country! So we should not put this on the light shoulder and say that 13 speakers now speak and talk about it. – That already has a reason and a tradition! [[Abg. Dr. Moser: Yes, it is! Talk about something happening!]] - You said that, exactly. Mrs Moser, I am not disappointed at all because how could it be different? [[Abg. Dr. Moser: Please tell me something new!]] It is. Austria is implementing €16 billion in the tourism sector. That's an economic factor. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: Yes!]] If you don't know: 180 000 people find employment there. You don't care if you're green. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Moser: That's nothing new! I support the request, but I want a substantial speech if you already report.]] I do not want to join you in the discussion now, but I would like to stick to the following: Do you know, Mrs. Moser, what your Mr. Pilz has in common with our clubman head and Mr. Strache? [[Abg. Pendl stands on the edge of the government bank and speaks to an employee.]] - Please? Ah, Mr. Pendl has self-evident talks, good. Do you know what Mr Strache and Mr Klubobmann Bucher have in common with the whole of BZÖ and Mr Wittmann? – All of you have already met this standard of qualification, in the Therme Linsberg Asia, and I invite you all to come there – in my home community! - You too, Otto Pendl. [[Abg. Pendl: Super!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e29762	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Oh, no, no, - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e29784	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! It's late. If it were here dark and there was no ceiling over us, we could already see the stars shining over us. In order for the tourism star to continue to radiate with us in Austria, of course we need innovations again and again and again in the right direction. That is why I am very glad that we will be voting unanimously on this item on the agenda today. This is certainly a step in the right direction. We have already heard from several speakers that the standards are very high in Austria. Some even call them the highest. There is no doubt that they are very high, and if we want to rise internationally, it is of course important to have comparable categorisation. We all have to work together to do this. Mr Ennemoser gave us a good overview of the work from the Chamber of Commerce in the Committee. I liked it very much. What I didn't like well is that there are now problems with the Austrian advertising on the part of the Chamber of Commerce. How this will continue, we will see. In order for us to be able to actually implement this point à la longue, however, we need the cooperation of all, and there cannot be disputes of opinionaries that we need internationally. If I may mention one point from the request, which I very much like: It is also pointed out in the proposal that we should apply for the tourism destination Europe as a whole. I think this is very important for us, because of course we can participate in it. I also liked Mr Obernosterer's proposal from the Committee very much. We were recently discussed in Tyrol as regards wellness categorisation. Thank you very much, and I hope that we will continue to work very well in the sense of tourism – and I wish you, Mrs Collaborative from Tyrol, every good thing to do here in Vienna.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e29829	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Hackl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e29850	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! From the point of view of consumers, the Europe-wide uniform restructuring of the hotel stars is very welcome. We have already heard from some previous speakers that a three-star hotel in northern Germany does not have the standard of a three-star hotel in Sicily – or vice versa. Very important for the success of this project will be a high level of participation of gastronomy, and another very important point is quality management. We know the “creativity” of some southern Mediterranean countries, and we must ensure that over the years the stars awarded and the quality standards for consumers remain valid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e29878	Mr Pack is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e29899	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. State Secretary! My previous speakers have already mentioned it, and I think it must be pointed out quite clearly: Of course, a uniform hotel classification does not only bring something to the guest, but it is especially important for tourism companies. If, as an example, I can take my East Styrian homeland: Of course, as far as thermal sites are concerned, we are in a lot of competition, especially with new thermal baths in Slovenia, Hungary and so on. Of course, the way to a uniform hotel classification is the right one. We live to 80 percent of domestic tourists who, of course, also look at the price. In order to choose an offer, you have to be able to really compare the offers. If you create a uniform hotel classification, this offer is transparent again and competition is easier for us or for our businesses. Another step, as my colleague Gabriel Obernosterer has announced by the colleague of the SPÖ, would of course be to make such a scheme in the area of wellness landscapes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e29944	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Would you like a final word? - That's not the case. We shall vote on the resolution attached to the Committee's report 1058 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 142.) [[22:47:11]] 21. Point Report by the Committee on Human Rights on amendment 1074/A(E) by Mr Gerald Grosz, colleagues on BSTU-Akten Einsicht (1059 a.m.)
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e29994	We're going to the 21st. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mr Mayerhofer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e30021	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! The SPÖ was particularly nervous yesterday morning in the Committee, and not without reason, if you light it a little closer and look at it more intensively. [[Abg. Haberzettl: That's not true at all!]] – Yes, just listen a little bit! The SPÖ, hopefully, does not believe, because one or another suspects, at least the espionage, was on the road in a left dictatorship, it is less worth researching than many other things in that country too. I would like to say that. Will we become aware: The espionage for a foreign power means to perceive the interests of another state and thus to ignore the interests of one’s own country, unnoticed by the authorities, even against the country in which one is living. I have already mentioned nervousness. I think it was particularly Mr Ewald Sacher, who has changed his mind about Mr Grosz's comments. [[Abg. Grosz: What we still don't know, why actually! That's what we're gonna have to work out.]] - Yes, that's interesting. In fact, people soon forgot what was going on, and the citizen has a right to know it. I would like to say that a few years ago Mr Scheibner spoke on the subject – more than right! Unfortunately, this has not been properly appreciated by many, I must say. [[Complaints with FPÖ and BZÖ.]] One thing has to be asked: If this state no longer exists, who is working on the spy workbench there? Whoever once was a spy remains a spy, he remains in business. This may interest the population, too, because some prominent head appears there. [[Oh, call at the SPÖ.]] – Yes, you will know who! For example, an ex-politan, who is currently working on initiating a popular desire, was very much in conversation a few years ago. Or a Member who has also been sitting here and who also has a high function today. – And the investigations were simply stopped, as so often in this country. There is not only the case of Kampusch, where simply covered, laid down, no longer being further mediated, because it does not allow the state councils to do so, I say once. And that's what the citizens notice. Some Members then take this into their hands. Mr Grosz, I haven't really had much praise left for you in this house yet, but for that you deserve a praise that you can take it back into your hands! [[In the case of BZÖ in the direction of the Abg. Grosz.]] After all, it was a former mayor of Vienna, who has not yet been above suspicion of being active in a Czech secret service. This has been turned off at once – but as beautiful as it can be! I am referring to SPÖ, which has the reparation, the reprocessing of the past to a very special extent in mind. [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: After what now? What's this?]] You are true today, you agree with this request, and then perhaps many political prisoners from this horrific communist period in the GDR have the chance of reparation, which is supposed to be a great concern to you! This would be quite enough for the applicant, in all cases to the voters, but – in any case and most importantly – also for justice. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Do not help again today with your passive attitude to cover and turn off. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e30114	Next speaker: Mr Kirchgatterer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e30136	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! On the agenda item 21, on the request of the BZÖ, it should be noted that in the course of the processing of the GDR spy against the Republic of Austria, investigations were carried out in 60 cases. The reasons for this request cannot be left without contradiction, and we reject the request. They are driving the historical development of Europe. They critically cite the state visits to Austria – the GDR in 1987 and 1983. [[Abg. Grosz: Our “saint” Bruno!]] [[Abg. Grill: Learn story!]] I can inform you – and you should really know for yourself: ==References== August 1975, in a series of American President Ford, Chancellor Kreisky, Federal Chancellor Schmidt and Erich Honecker, and all the other European Heads of State, except Albania, as well as the US, also Canada, signed the Helsinki Declaration at the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe. I should like to point out two points. Point 7: Respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. Point 9: Cooperation between States. - That was 1975. They speak of 1978 and 1983. I can also mention the two personalities. They criticize the Federal President Rudolf Kirchschlager. I can tell you – and you should also know – that his position as ambassador to Prague in 1968 was very courageous and should lead all democrats to great appreciation and respect, and not only lead to an honest recognition of this great act. The Austrian Embassy was in Prague the only one that has been so committed to human rights. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Neugebauer.]] [[Abg. Neugebauer: What is historically true is true!]] Bruno Kreisky's policy, the active neutrality policy in cooperation with Olof Palme and Willy Brandt for humanity and relaxation has achieved a lot of positive things in Europe and is still noticeable today. Beyond Europe, Austria was a co-initiator of peace. Many initiatives date back to this positive time. We have every reason to be proud of these personalities, not just us in Austria, but people across Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e30205	Mr Dr. Zinggl is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e30226	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Yesterday we agreed to this request by Mr Grosz, because, in principle, we believe that reprocessing is something important, especially when it comes to the reprocessing of criminal regimes, whether this is a national socialist regime or whether it is any Stasi crimes. We have done this, although we have not really understood this ‘packed text,’ that is, those explanations made by Mr Grosz. We've been together for hours, we've put our heads together, we've been squatting, we've been running hermeneutics, we've been exegesing, and we haven't gotten on it. We have brought in experts from the BZÖ language from Graz, so that they can send us an opinion. However, meaning has not opened up to us; I'm sorry. But we have continued the studies today and have also called on the Federal authorities to prepare the Stasi documents and discuss to what extent they may help us. Now we know that half of the text contains, in other words, and very distorted, what this Stasi Reprocessing Authority has to do. - That's half. In the second half it becomes very strange and perplexed. First of all, it is about Austria's neutrality policy being discredited under Kreisky, and then about the alleged acquaintance of Bruno Kreisky having any close relationship with any Soviet secret services. What this has to do with the actual request has not opened up to us either. But after all, the authority referred to in the Volksmund Gauck authorities for processing The Stasi documents have told us that there is a strong exchange between Austria and Germany as far as the findings of these authorities are concerned. Secondly, investigations are always carried out on request on grounds of suspicion, whether public authorities or private persons, whether these applications come from Germany or from Austria. Thirdly, This authority shall not work as it is in the application until the end of 2011 but at least until the end of 2019. And fourthly, The Federal Ministry of the Interior would have to know that there are at least 60 cases where Austrians were somehow associated with the crimes and then reported. So far, there has been a case of judicial conviction. I therefore see no further reason to accept this request. We will therefore vote in favour of the Committee's report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e30280	Next speaker: Mr Grossruck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e30302	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! I join my previous speaker only once. This is an application to which one can typically say in Upper Austrian – or Austrian – that the soup is worth more than the meat. In fact, there is an application that is supposed to excite, and if you look at what is really behind it when you look at the numbers, then you can see that everything has actually been worked out that there is no reason at all to become particularly active here. The authorities are working. My previous speaker said it: ==References====External links== In October 1990, the Austrian State Protection Authorities also deal with the preparation of the activities of the former GDR news services in the Federal Republic of Germany. Investigations were started in 60 cases, in the majority of cases criminal charges were paid to the judicial authorities. The vast majority was then recruited. There are no longer any proceedings open, and in three cases the criminal proceedings have been terminated. Only in a single case did an Austrian citizen have a valid conviction. Apart from that, the authorities in Germany are still working. The Ministry of State Security's work and approach is documented in detail and comprehensively by research institutions. – So there is no reason for us to become particularly active now because everything is going on anyway. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the request should therefore also be rejected on the basis of non-conformity. I come to the conclusion, ladies and gentlemen: Since the request does not give a four-lineer – I have tried, but there is no one to do so – I will bring a single liner to today's Causa, and to discuss the military service briefly say my reasons: [[Rejoicing]] A year ago, ground in stone, The obligation to do so is now being eroded. Principles do not have any meaning, government does the “Kronen Zeitung”. However, the ÖVP is g’scheit and at any time ready to talk.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e30369	Before I give the floor to Mr Grosz, only for information: There are now three words on this agenda item. I should like to invite the President-in-Office of the Council or their alternates, after the vote on this item on the agenda, to a brief address so that we can clarify whether there is a reserve day at the beginning of March or not. Mr Grosz, you are speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e30393	Madam President. High house! I congratulate Mr Grossruck on this four-liner, who really served the matter on this item on the agenda, a matter which is quite simple, namely our wish to rework a dark chapter of European history: the German Democratic Republic, which has been a slave for years and decades, has held people hostage, people also killed under its Stalinist leadership, under this fascistic leadership, on the wall, people who have been pioneered in an unjust state such as the GDR, which has been able to develop their injustices worldwide with its Stasi network. We are simply talking about the fact that, despite this hour-long discussion of some logopaedic experts who have flown from anywhere to bring the Greens' brain gangs to the foreman, you have said so yourself; it is not even insulting that you need it – you have apparently not read the request, because the deadline mentioned in the request is until 31. December 2011 – refers exclusively to the review of those persons who were mainly or unofficially active for the Stasi, for those who are entitled to it under the law of 1992, these so-called Gauck authorities. [[President Neugebauer shall take over the chairmanship.]] The fact that the Gauck authorities will be implemented by 2019, 2024 and possibly in the service of German history for the next 40 years is clear to us because the Germans also have a lot to do with this area and, of course, thousands of acts of Austrians who have not yet seen the light of the public are waiting in these archives; Act, which has been made about Austrians and acts about Austrians, who have developed their intelligence, contrary to the objective of Austria, and thus committed high treason to the Republic of Austria. [[In the case of the BZÖ, as well as the members of the FPÖ.]] And there I do not distinguish between a National Socialist regime, a Stalinist regime, a fascistic regime in Italy or elsewhere, but these dark chapters of history belong to merciless work. I take note that you look very well on the right eye, but on the left latent blind when it comes to the offenses of those consorts. you are ideologically related to, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens. [[In the case of the BZÖ, as well as the members of the FPÖ.]] And, ladies and gentlemen, the fact that the Austrian connections to the GDR regime were permanent proves two facts: The first fact is that the first official foreign visit of the DDR Council President Honecker led him to Austria in order to rehabilitate him here, also internationally on the diplomatic parquet. And secondly, there is the fact that the first significant Western head of government was an Austrian Chancellor who traveled to the GDR and thus also upgraded the GDR regime. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] Another point that we cannot forget is not to open up the 1970s – no! – but the year 1989, the year of the collapse of the German Democratic Republic, the collapse of the Stalinist regime, when a few weeks before the collapse of the GDR by the Austrian Chancellor Dr. Franz Vrannitzky – I hope that this will not be a political injury because you are so excited by Bruno Kreisky – no, Dr. Franz Vrannitzky in the magazine “Aspecte” said: “We can look at the excellent cooperation between Austria and the GDR with satisfaction. The continuous consolidation and deepening of the mutual relations of recent years is expected to be further dynamic for 1989." Friendship, comrade! Three weeks later, the wall collapsed and the German Democratic Republic and its people could be liberated. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Well, of course, we want to clarify these things, as well as those things, that an SS deputy leader, Mr. Johann Sanitzer, a former head of department of the Vienna Gestapoleidingstelle, torture and interrogation specialist, despite court convictions on the major of the state security of the GDR, has been advanced and has been able to reproduce the intelligence service. And there are hundreds of cases of that. That is why I do not know, ladies and gentlemen, in particular from the Social Democracy, why you defend yourself here with your hands and feet. Finally, I ask you: What have you and some hundreds of your highest functions and members really to hide and what dirty role have you played in the GDR?
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e30485	Next speaker: Mr Plessl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e30506	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Grosz, you have already made clear yesterday in the Committee what you are doing: They always tell half-truths and untruths. Often you mix everything, apples and pears, and believe that if you repeat it more often, it will come true. - That's not the way it is. The fact is that investigations have already been carried out here. It has been said several times by my previous speakers that a total of over 60 cases have been handled. The judicial authority's investigative knowledge was partially passed on to criminal courts and there were procedural regulations. And it is, yes, it has also come to a condemnation. That's a fact, and we won't get away from it. But if you are so interested and absolutely want to be informed, you also have to say that you had a country captain who had relations with a dictator. I would just like to mention the year 2002. I have to say quite clearly, that might also be a question. For me, it is very important to note why two parties do not want to vote now. [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] The fact is that the Federal Ministry of the Interior also has limited resources and is currently dealing with the biggest criminal cases in the history of the Second Republic. Maybe that's another reason why you want to delay the work. I want to say quite clearly here, Hypo Alpe-Adria, BUWOG. Two new questions from the Greens have recently been raised, which have found inconsistencies in the review of companies. I think there's enough to finish. Let us work with the authorities and not deal with any side-by-side issues that have been dealt with for a long time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e30549	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Stadler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e30570	Mr President. Mr Vorsprechner said that it is not possible to talk about GDR-acts because the ministry is supposed to collapse and can no longer find out anything else. This has been white nonsense – with all respect –, white nonsense! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: (to SPÖ) Such a fool!]] Look, ladies and gentlemen, you know very well... – Oh, yes, you know it very well. [[Call the SPÖ: We don't know!]] You know that there has always been GDR-spitzel activity in Vienna. That was also one of the reasons why, in various constitutional protection reports, one has repeatedly said critically that there were, of course, activities here. [[Call to the FPÖ: Also Czechia!]] There were, of course, cross-links between the nationalized industry, between the reds, between the greens, again and again into the GDR. [[Abg. Grosz: Voest!]] There was the Lord of Sleep, the Connections... – Yes, too! [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] The ÖVP, too, is right, yes. The Chamber of Commerce... – Just like Mr. Strauss, all these things were there. [[Abg. Grosz: Van der Bellen at the SPÖ!]] The Lord Sleep and the Rudolfs Steindling and all the cross-links. But that's not what it's all about now. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to mention two things: As a popular lawyer, I sent a report to Parliament which could no longer be dealt with in the committee of inquiry, the so-called Causa Martina. There was a military service running a Hungarian source, illegal. He officially accused, at that time, the entire SPÖ peak – called the GDR – of the GDR's spicing activity. Those who have looked at the report may still know who I am talking about. Then it was said that the source should not be passed on at all and, above all, should not be paid on. But they were continued and paid on. It was never explained to the Gauck authorities, what was really behind it, nor to the discharge. Another case – last week I received a request answer –: There are two ministers, the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Defence, telling me: Secrecy, can't be answered. This is nothing less than an Austrian citizen, Social Democratic, who was accused by an employee of a military service, to have been engaged in leadership for the GDR. How does this man want to defend himself? . He must now try to get to know about the Birthler authorities about information, which in fact would be to be obtained officially, but which one cannot obtain, namely, not at all. For, ladies and gentlemen, there is no agreement between Austria and Germany. And that is the meaning and purpose of this request. This man, just so you don't mind, you have the accuser – even a red one, by the way, a roundneck – who used to be a freeman – now ridded into the head office of the state. – Mr. Niessl to Eisenstadt. Yes, you got rid of it! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Her actual defense minister Kammerhofer held his protective hand over it because he believed it was a former informant of Mr. Gaál that this was a particularly reliable social democracy. That is why he was disposed of for the sake of caution, even though he lost in a trial against this unjustly accused citizen – social democrat!, I can't repeat it often enough –. You never figured it out. On the contrary! In the meantime, there is another report in the Ministry of Defence, where some other speaker claims, well, it has not been clarified, but it has probably already been a bit of a move. How does this man – social democrat, long-standing socialist trade unionist – suffer, how does this man behave? – The ÖGB does not help him get something from the Birthler authorities, because the ÖGB is also afraid that this could become a precedent and could flow too much information back to Austria. That's why you don't want to. Look, we'll take note of this. We also direct it to these people that your own comrades are against clarifying things. But believe me: That's why we don't give up. The fact that in this country it is wrong – whether social democracy or not – to continue to suspect citizens in the right way to be a GDR-spitzel is also reason enough to ensure that the Birthler authorities can be requested officially. I do not see why the Federal Republic of Germany is setting up a highly qualified authority and we do not want to grasp the knowledge of that authority. Why not? Create You can do this! This is simply and simply a simple administrative agreement between the Ministry of the Interior and the Birthler authorities and the case is done. And it can also protect citizens, with official support. At present, this is not the case, and I think that is a lack of legal protection.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e30677	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We come to the vote on the request of the Committee on Human Rights to take note of its report 1059 of the supplements. If you give your consent, I will ask you for your sign. – This is accepted by a majority. [[23:13:29]] 22. Point Report by the Committee on Human Rights on Amendment No 1119/A(E) by Mr Mag. Dr Wolfgang Zinggl, colleagues in the social and economic integration of Roma (1060 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e30719	I'll call the 22. Agenda item. Mr Vock is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e30743	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! High house! Already in committee, Mr Zinggl, as an applicant, has shown us the opposition to this request. Although our constitution protects the indigenous Roma population, we should now create a structure that will help the national Roma organizations to submit projects to the EU Structural Funds. I remember April 2009 when the International Roma Day took place here in Austria under the motto “Roma – Austrian People’s Group – From Persecution to Recognition”. We can therefore be proud that this group of people feels fully recognized. We also gave them political recognition at an event in November 2010 when it said: “As diverse, colorful, loving and part of Austrian culture, National Council President Mag. Barbara Prammerdie Roma People’s Group.’ We do not want to deny that there are many problems in the EU for the Roma People's Group. Let us just look at the problems that the Roma have in France and Italy! But especially we Austrians should be proud that our group does not have these problems. But, Mr Zinggl, I already understand for you: Whoever denies the German majority of a people and does not commit himself to it, of course, is also hard to recognize the Austrian minorities. We liberals like to confess to our homeland and to our historical German-speaking and German-cultural majority. Nor do we have any problems in recognizing our Austrian minorities.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e30787	Next speaker: Mrs Gessl-Ranftl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e30808	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! High house! Since the recognition as a national group in 1993, the Austrian legal system has provided special protection for Roma. However, the city of Braunau is particularly important. There was already installed about ten years ago a campsite for the transiting Roma, and with the construction of sanitary facilities and the correct disposal of waste, an orderly co-operation was made possible. The Austrians not only accept minority rights, but also support them. I can quote Professor Rudolf Sarkozi: “In contrast to other countries, there are no slum-like settlements of Roma on the outskirts of cities in Austria. (...) He also did not have negative perceptions of animosities or insults, said Sarkozi.” This statement shows that Austria is one of the few exceptions. It is unacceptable and embarrassing that around 15 percent of Roma in Europe live in poverty. In this context, we must, with the help of all the organisations, in particular our neighbouring countries, as well as the EU countries Bulgaria and Romania. Special attention should also be paid to the young generation of Roma. No fears and irrational prejudices may be aroused. Young people must have training and job opportunities like any other EU citizen. Only close cooperation between politics, the media, the Church and the national Roma associations can secure the living situation of around ten million Roma in Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e30856	Next speaker: Mr Grossruck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e30878	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! High house! We will agree to this proposal with the amendment that we discussed yesterday in the Committee on Human Rights and also decided on. The objective of the present proposal is to improve the situation of Roma living in Austria, in particular by creating a structure that will help the national Roma organizations to bring in project applications under the Structural Funds. Now, of course, we know – the previous speaker has said it – that the problem is not an Austrian one, that Austria has done a lot, but that we already have to distinguish Roma with Austrian citizenship, Roma who come from a Member State of the EU with the rights that EU citizens have, or Roma who do not come from any EU Member State. That is why it is more than good that this problem is not only solved and dealt with in Austria, but, I believe, also by the whole European Union. That's what we're going to do. Let me say another personal word. The previous speaker mentioned Braunau first. This was an example yesterday brought by Mrs Marianne Hagenhofer, the elected vice-president of the Human Rights Committee. I wanted to give her a few more words today because I thought she was still here today. But I think we can say in all our sense that we have not lost a very nice, very understanding and collegiate colleague, but that she has left Parliament. I would also like to thank her personally for the good friendship and companionship, the we have had all the time – whether it was with the OSCE or also in the Human Rights Committee. [[General condolences.]] I have never heard of her from the speaker's desk, although of course it is difficult to hold back here, infringing word, she has always been objective. I think she deserves a little appreciation. So I made her a four-lineer, and even if she's not here today, she can read it in the minutes: Collegial, never injuring, also always appreciating other opinions, beyond party boundaries, She now left the High House. And now I'm going to be an innviertlerian: I wish her that s’ more time now håt, Marianne, Pfiat di God!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e30951	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Zinggl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e30972	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Twelve million Roma are the largest minority in Europe, as you probably know, and unfortunately it is by far the poorest. In many countries, the Roma live under totally unacceptable conditions, as you know. I'm just saying a few examples: 44 percent live below the poverty line, 15 percent in extreme poverty, i.e. less than € 1 per day. We know that they have to live under conditions that can only be described as being shot off and scrapped. The health systems are completely down-to-earth. The consequences are high infant mortality, 40 percent unemployment, and I could continue now. All of this is not least a consequence of ethnic segregation for many hundreds of years, which continues to this day. I believe that the stupidest strategy in Europe is to continue this segregation by deportation and violence. What to push Europeans back and forth at all? No problem can be solved with this. Therefore, I would like to begin by saying that at the beginning of April last year there was at last an appropriate conference in Córdoba, where it was found that this problem could be solved not only by Europe but by Europe in cooperation with the national states, i.e. with those responsible in the national states, but also by the Roma associations, and that, secondly, the improvement of the living situation could also be achieved by means of assistance to applications. Money is there, but the money alone does not help if the applications are not filled in accordingly. Anyone who has ever seen and filled out an EU application knows how complicated this is, and these differentiated associations and associations of Roma are not in a position to do so. This means that Austria must be actively involved in this European, transnational problem. And the first part of our motion for a resolution goes in this direction too. The second part is that we also support the local Roma associations better than before. We have this People's Group Act, and they get a little money from the People's pot, but that's enough for things that would actually be natural, namely that the health system improves will ensure that people receive unemployment programmes, education programmes – all things that would be of course, so they would not have to be paid out of the national budget. Further support in the context of the European Union was our intention here. I am very pleased that both the SPÖ and the ÖVP agree with this motion for a resolution. You have to execute this on your government officials, and I hope you do, and it doesn't just stick to lip confessions. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e31018	Next speaker: Mr Sacher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e31039	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! High house! Austria is of course committed to the integration of Roma, Sinti and other minorities. But we must ask ourselves: Is that enough what we're doing? The present motion for a resolution or amendment underscores the effort. That is why there is also this broad consensus here and this broad agreement. We can certainly become more active, for example in the information about these minorities, in trying to understand the mentality of these people, and especially in improving the social and economic situation. Austria, in any event, expresses today’s decision that Roma integration is also required in all other EU countries and beyond. We have every reason, ladies and gentlemen, because, according to the Jews, Roma and other minorities have been the largest victim group of the Nazi genocide in Europe. Unfortunately, they are still discriminated against today, and their social situation is precarious. They continue to suffer from poverty, unemployment and prejudices, not only in the former Eastern Bloc States such as Romania, Bulgaria, Serbia and so on, but also in France, where the Sarkozy government has identified 8,000 Roma, or in Greece, where they have unimaginably bad social conditions, or in the Czech Republic, where there are still attacks by nationalists, but now thanks to God also a national action plan for the education of Roma children, for example, or in Spain, where 1.6 percent are so-called Gitanos, which should now be promoted by the Social Democratic Government in a 107 million € programme for education, health, housing for women. Ladies and gentlemen! 25 000 Roma live in Austria, 12 million in Europe. Today's decision gives us the signal that we are working together against exclusion, persecution or even destruction, as some of them have done in the past and in recent times. And I'm finally asking: When is the day when Europe no longer needs to be ashamed of exclusion from the human rights of these minorities? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e31082	No one is reporting on this. I'll close the debate. We shall vote on the resolution attached to the Committee's report 1060 of the Supplements. If you stand for it, I ask you for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. (E 143.) [[23:27:39]] 23. Point Report of the Immunities Committee on the request of the Landesgericht Klagenfurt (19Hv 120/10 b) for approval of the administrative persecution of the Member of the National Council Stefan Petzner(1057 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e31131	We're coming to the 23rd. Agenda item. Since there is no mention of a word, we shall vote on the request made by the Committee on Immunities in 1057 of the supplements to decide on the following: On the basis of a request from the Member to the National Council Stefan Petzner, according to § 10 para. 3 Request made by the Landesgerichts Klagenfurt for consent to the criminal prosecution of the said person shall be found: ==References====External links== 5. In 2009, with a request from the Public Prosecutor's Office, Klagenfurt, for the consent of the Deputies to the National Council Stefan Petzner, and – confirmed by the National Council on 19 November 2009 5. 2009 – found that ratione temporis is not a link between the incriminated act and the political activity of the MP to the National Council Stefan Petznerbe. In the present case, the Court of First Instance referred to the Court of First Instance for a preliminary ruling a question on the interpretation of Article 107(1) of the EC Treaty. 12. 2010 – with different legal qualifications of the case – is the same case as the public prosecutor's request of 24 April 2010 to the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 3rd. Based on 2009. The task of the National Council is to determine whether an incriminated act is related to the political activity of the Member; it is, of course, decided whether a persecution of the Member concerned would be approved. However, this assessment shall be based solely on the facts, but not on the legal qualifications of the facts. As regards the case-law of the two requests made by the Public Prosecutor's Office in Klagenfurt, 24 February 1998, the Court of Justice of the European Communities referred to the Court of First Instance for a preliminary ruling a question on the interpretation of Article 107(1) of the EC Treaty. 3rd. ==References====External links== 12. 2010 Fact identity. It is therefore referred to by the National Council on 19 June. 5. Report of the Committee on Immunities, adopted in 2009, of the European Parliament, of the Council and of the Economic and Social Committee of the European Communities, of the European Parliament, of the Council and of the Council of the European Communities, of the European Parliament, of the Council of the European Union, of the European Parliament, of the Council and of the Council of the European Union, of the European Parliament, of the European Parliament, of the Council, of the European Parliament and of the Council, of the European Parliament, of the Council, of the European Parliament, of the Council, of the European Parliament and of the Council, of the European Parliament, of the European Parliament, of the Council, of the European Union, of the European Union, of the European Union, of the European Union, of the European Parliament I ask those ladies and gentlemen who follow this request for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. [[23:30:11]] Short debate on applications for the setting up of an investigative committee
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e31192	We are now entering the debate on the request of Members of Parliament to set up a committee of inquiry to examine the role and development of former Minister of Finance Mag. Karl-Heinz Grasser in the BUWOG affair and on the Request by Dr Moser, colleagues, to set up a committee of inquiry to investigate illegal influences in the field of the Ministry of Finance. As these applications have now been distributed to all Members, there is a lack of reading by the author. The applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] Request by Mr Moser, Mr Pilz, Mr Kogler, Mr Kogler and Mr Cots, pursuant to § 33 GOG, on the establishment of an investigative committee to investigate illegal influences in the field of the Ministry of Finance The undersigned Members request that an investigation committee be set up in relation to: 5 SPÖ, 5 ÖVP, 3 FPÖ, 2 Greens, 1 BZÖ. Subject-matter of the investigation: Study of inconsistencies during or during the course of the investigation. in possible connection with the term of office of the former Federal Minister for Finance, Karl Heinz Grasser: Privatisation of BUWOG, Dorotheum and Bundesverlag tax treatment of the private homepage as well as of performance fees (preventions, “Roadshows”) by then Minister of Finance Grasser Questionable transfers of federal institutions (transition of courts into the "Justicetower" Marxergasse and financial and customs offices in the "Terminal Tower" Linz) attempted influence Grassers on the innovation of the gambling law To what extent the settlement of questionable money transfers via foreign accounts and letterbox companies as well as various foundation structures served to cover up money flows on grasses that had their basis in painting during their term of office (e.g. as a result of privatisations, leases etc.) even if the actual flows of money were only effected after the end of his term of office. Investigation order: The Committee of Inquiry shall, by applying all the instruments provided for in the VO-UA, in particular through the submission of documents of the Federal Ministries of Finance and Justice, as well as of acts of the financial and judicial authorities, as well as the consultation of information persons identifying the subject-matter of the investigation. Reasons: Since the BUWOG affair, the suspicions have been condensed, according to which in the field of action of then Minister of Finance Mag. Karl Heinz Grasser's personal interests about the interests of the Republic of Austria have been placed, whether in the case of legislative proposals, privatisations, leases, advisory contracts, financial market supervision, the establishment of foundations, In the meantime, details which have become public in various criminal proceedings give rise to such a concentration of suspicions against the former Minister of Finance that a complete clarification of transactions and political responsibility by the National Council is essential: Detailed information on the necessary bidder sum (for the acquisition of BUWOG etc. housing companies by the Immofinanz) by Walter Meischberger, who could only get this close friend of Grasser from the narrowest personal environment or from the Minister himself; statements by Michael Ramprecht and seat information of the Procurement Commission; two Meischberger accounts from the Hypo Invest Bank in Liechtenstein (one on ‘Natalia’) with funds from the BUWOG commission; the transfer of the ‘Ramprechts-Process’ assigned; denied order to favour Lehman despite the fact that the BUWOG award commission had been set up; luxury holiday ( 6 nights for 4,600 euros) provided by Meischberger on Seychelles eight weeks before the sale of the BUWOG; Audio-band protocols on intercepted calls, in which attempts were subsequently made to construct declarations for received commission payments Investment into the Causa Hypo-Alpe Adria: drawing of hypo-genus certificates; Questionable money transfers via foreign letterbox companies and foundation constructions The Rechnungshof already found inconsistencies in its reports. His former President, Dr Franz Fierce, now called for an investigation committee in the light of the new situation. Testimonies harden this claim. There, where the suspicion of criminal offences exists, judicial preliminary investigations have already been initiated. Political responsibility is to be clarified independently. This task comes after the federal constitution to the National Council. In accordance with § 33 of the GOG, the Members who have been signed call for a short debate.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e31378	In the run-up to the call for short-term debates on applications for the setting up of committees of inquiry was discussed. In accordance with previous practice, the short debates in the order in which they were received come to the call, with the BZÖ's request at the beginning of the meeting, which was given to the Greens after the opening of the meeting. Since a merger has been agreed for today's short debates, the order of the opening speakers also depends on the receipt of the request. The President will be pleased to respond to the request of the Greens to discuss this issue at the Presidential Conference. We are going into the debate. In the sense of § 57 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure is the speaking time in the debate 5 minutes, the first speaker has a speaking time of 10 minutes for each reason. Statements by members of the Federal Government, on behalf of the State Secretary-General, should not last more than 10 minutes. President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: Stadler.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e31416	Mr President. High house! The Causa Mag. Karl-Heinz Grasser, former ÖVP minister, and his entire clientele regarding – what is so hot about it? – will be to you once, I have predicted some of you to fly around the ears. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with representatives of the ÖVP]] And now it's ready. [[Call the ÖVP:Scherzkeks!]] What does “Scherzkeks ” mean? You think that's hustle and bustle? You're gonna lose that! I am going to ask you something else in this context today – I hope you will have so much humor. Mr ÖVP Minister Karl-Heinz Grasser and his whole clumps and annex are the subject of investigations by the Justice, which at least the former ÖVP club secretary and former President of the Court of Auditors Dr Franz Fierce – or does it have nothing to do with the ÖVP? – have led to say that this case requires a committee of inquiry. [[Abg. Hornek: They were all with you before!]] [[Abg. Grosz: When they were punished, they were with you.]] Now we know that Franz Fiedler is not necessarily a hot trigger. If Franz Fiedler once says that this requires an investigation committee, I can only agree with the opinion of Dr. Franz Fiedler. [[Abg. Head: Who scratches what he has in connection...?]] – I deliberately quote almost all blacks so that you can make it easier to agree to the whole thing. So Franz Viefer says: The proceedings concerning the ex-ÖVP Finance Minister Karl-Heinz Grasser, who would have been the hope of the ÖVP for the future – for a time I believed he was going to be the head of the ÖVP – must be the subject of an investigation committee. ==References== Peter Hochegger, a special specific of the former ÖVP Finance Minister Karl-Heinz Grasser, and Walter Meischberger took the flight forward and made self-advertising at the Finanzamt. And since then, the investigations are more or less sluggish in progress. There was a telephone surveillance between January and February 2010. The fact is that at the beginning the whole looked forward only to a limited investigation in connection with the BUWOG privatisation, because an official of the Ministry of Justice said that there was a clear preference in dealing with privatisation, where 100 percent of what ÖVP Finance Minister Karl-Heinz Grasser wanted was enforced. It is known that in the course of the privatisation of the 62 000 federal apartments that were in the BUWOG, a company that happened by chance again in the wishful concert of the ÖVP Finance Minister Karl-Heinz Grasser and where a Cypriot letterbox company flowed € 9.6 million to Meischberger and Hochegger. In any case, this is admitted by the Immofinanz chief Karl Petrikovics. But in the meantime, the investigations have been extended. In the meantime, it is no longer only about BUWOG privatisation, about the BUWOG sale, in the meantime it is also about dorotheum privatisation, in the meantime it is also about Telekom-Austria privatisation, and in the meantime every half year it is about more and more what has happened around the former ÖVP Minister of Finance Karl-Heinz Grasser. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Not only I, but many Austrians would like to know what happened on the boat when Mr Flöttl met Mr Grasser and Mr Meinl. And now I ask you again – hopefully you still have so much humor: Why is the ÖVP still protecting Mr Grasser? [[Abg. Amon: But go!]] – But of course! That can't be because he changed to your party and was briefly your Federal Chancellor's favorite minister! It can't be. I don't think that's the real reason. How deep is the ÖVP in the process that Mr Grasser had to deal with? [[Abg. Grosz: Very deep!]] I guess so. I, but also many Austrians suspect that. And I know that's what your coalition partner suspects, probably even knows. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Head.]] This is what we are ‘waiting’, Mr. Humorist. That's what we're "in expectation". If this coalition breaks, then the SPÖ will begin to extract what the SPÖ already knows today, namely how deep the ÖVP is in the processes that Mr Grasser has to deal with. We know that social democracy is better informed than they admit. We know that. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] But, of course, yes, you know exactly what your coalition partner has to do with it, but you are not doing anything against your coalition partner from Coalitionsraeson at the moment. That's the background. This will, sooner or later, necessarily result in a committee of inquiry, even if you are depressing it today, but you will not avoid it. They will not avoid informing the BUWOG-Causa within the framework of an investigation committee. They won't miss out on the so-called Munich Grästerl. Do you know what the "Münchner Grästerl" is? – This is a transfer of parts of a financial office to Brehmstraße. This is called the "Münchner Grästerl", because one meant that one had to combine the commission payment that was paid to Meischberger with a Munich construction project. That's why it's inside the act, the so-called Munich Grähl. [[Abg. Amon: What does this have to do with us?]] - No, it has nothing to do with you. No, no, not at all. Mr Grasser, Minister of Finance, has never had anything to do with the ÖVP. He never enjoyed the protection of the Austrian People's Party. [[Abg. Strache: He has never been supported by the dish!]] He never enjoyed the protection of the Ministry of the Interior, never enjoyed the protection of the Ministry of Justice. Never, not at all! He never went into and out of the ÖVP. He also had nothing to do with the acquisition of the Eurofighter. Nothing, nothing at all. No, who would come up with such an idea, ladies and gentlemen?- Oh, my God! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mr ÖVP-Finanzminister a. D. also needs explanation when it comes to buying or ordering a building from PORR and relocated the Economic University there. The rector of the Economic University, Professor Badelt, does not know Mr Meischberger at all. But Mr Meischberger has received a commission for Meischberger to bring the Economic Union into this PORR building, my Ladies and gentlemen! – Only: The rector doesn't know him at all! He did not know at all that Mr Meischberger had received a commission for this. And what is even more grotesque – this is reflected in these phone monitoring protocols –: Mr Vermitter Meischberger did not know where the Nordbergstraße is at all, ladies and gentlemen. He first had to be explained by Mr Plech! These are really the best commission shops! A commission business of several hundred thousand euros – I think it's a total of €708,000 – where the commission intermediary has never had anything to do with the intermediary, because he doesn't know him at all, and where the commission intermediary doesn't even know where he's been doing something, ladies and gentlemen. He'll have to ask him where that's at all. He then told him: You, you have to continue at Julius-Tandler-Platz and then up there, and then you'll find it. That's how it happened, ladies and gentlemen! [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] It's all legible. A third project where there is an urgent need for information: There is another project where Mr. Vermitter Meischberger has officially received €200 000 – a lapish commission compared to the others. This is not a question of a so-called advisory service of Romania. But Mr Meischberger was so unexplained as to what he did in Romania – at Meischberger I am not even sure whether he knows where Romania is located at all. But that was another construction site. Anyway, he asked Grasser what that was supposed to be. And he said: Please, check the homepage! I'm telling you what you're doing best when you say it! Just look where PORR worked everywhere, and then say it was stop there! – And then they came to Romania. So this is the ominous Romania project. But it goes on: The Finance Directorate moved to Linz Terminal Tower – by chance a branch of the former ÖVP Finance Minister Karl-Heinz Grasser. And there: for the transfer of a branch office of the Minister of Finance to another building – by chance once again built by the company Porr – Meischberger receives a commission again. This time, I believe, it was also several hundred thousand euros that he received for this transfer, because otherwise the Minister of Finance would not have known where to do the Finance Office in Linz. You really have to see that. So, if all these are not strange processes! And then Mr. Meischberger says that he actually does not know how to justify this intake. I quote him literally. Meschberger to Plach: “Here I am now super naked.” – End of the quote, ladies and gentlemen. He didn't even know what to explain to the police with this legal transaction. And there he consults with Mr. Plech, and he consults with Mr. Grasser – and all of this is called dating and eclipse. Every other Austrian would go into prison for this, only Mr Grasser, not only Mr Plech, not only Mr Meischberger, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: That's it! That's right!]] And this is a cry to the committee of inquiry, ladies and gentlemen. This is classic two-class justice: Black ex-ÖVP ministers, black artists, black commission skaters in black ministries are favoured by black interior ministers, black justice ministers. And that's why I'm saying: They will not pass such an investigation sooner or later.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e31602	Next speaker: Mrs Dr. Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e31623	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! On the one hand, the cabaretist side can be followed in the Audimax, on the other hand by colleagues Stadler et cetera, but the political substance goes much deeper. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: They were better!]] [[Abg. Grosz: It won't come until the woman talks to Moser!]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is not about any sausage summer, just as it is often quoted – also from the young ÖVP – but about federal assets to a total of at least € 1 billion, if not € 2 billion. It is about lease contracts that the BIG could bring an annual yield if one were to hire with the BIG and not with Porr, just as it has been arranged there, which also totals millions. It's about tax money, it's about Republic assets. And this tax money and this Republic assets were wonderfully carried into their own pockets by a Clique who arranged around the former Minister of Finance. What is the core of the matter? – The core of the matter is that the former ÖVP finance minister put his friends in positions, with his friends who were in positions at the time, where they privately collected, now that he is a private man, has private companies. That's the excitement of it: These friends have been his business partners since he was no longer Finance Ministers. And precisely these friends were not only at the important positions in supervisory councils, the Bundesimmobiliengesellschaft, the state-owned housing companies such as the BUWOG, these friends have also made the information they received there money for their own bags. And the funny thing is: Mr Strohmann Meischberger, as we have already heard, often did not know what performance he had done, for which he has made fees. But the honors were laid, they were paid – he doesn't know why. [[Abg. May. Stadler: And distributed!]] That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we have to leave a fellow-consulter, a major consul here in Parliament to speak and answer, to question, to take responsibility, so to speak, to raise awareness. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the FPÖ.]] And that is why, ladies and gentlemen, on the one hand, the following is important – I give you absolutely right; I hear it come now –: Justice must first complete its chapter, then we can talk about it! – I’ll hear that from the right side as well. I can tell you: We need a parallel action, because justice does not get the witnesses who know something. Read the new edition of the “Falter”! There is a witness from Porr who knows exactly how this happened: If the Republic was interested in renting where and the Federal Property Society was already in place, then there was this wonderful mediator and commissionskassier plate, which then came and said to Porr, the private provider: “Be in between”! – Quote ‘Falter’. You can read that at any time. In between, we'll make half-half of it. - That's how it happened. And please, these witnesses who know this very well – that's all to read! –, will not be questioned by the prosecutor's office! No, no, no, [[Abg. May. Stadler: They don't want to hear!]] They go private to journalists, go out there, confess there, and there call quotations and people. - That's it. The court looks past that. We'll find out in public. Ladies and gentlemen, this is why we here in Parliament need our own investigations, our own witness surveys, our own facts, our own insight into the files. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: Party Justice!]] I'm just thinking about it and I can only point out: There were also parallel actions with Noricum and Lucona. At that time, on the one hand, a court was established and, on the other hand, political responsibilities were clarified. I am not concerned that I have some kind of revenge for past scandals – for which the justice is here – but I am concerned that there are political consequences. I am concerned that in the future one avoids that such networks of friendship are central decision-makers of the Republic, who then either with knowledge or with no knowledge – it always applies to the presumption of innocence, the much quoted sentence – prove to be cashing and passing the tax on accounts in Liechtenstein, in any Caribbean institutions, all about the detour of Cyprus. It must be virtually prevented by this discovery, by this clarification, by examining which structures have facilitated this process, that this should be repeated in the future. We don't need co-cuters anymore, we don't need lubrication payers anymore. We can't afford it any more than fiscal policy, that a finance minister, the Republic's top guard, has such a system of friendship – even now not only in company relationships, but also useful – and that this remains unexplained and that it continues to stand as a political fact in the room and the majority say: Well, my goodness, it just happened, what's this about us?- Oh, my God! Please, that's our concern! This is a matter of concern to us, because it is not only a question of tax money and republic property, but also the question of political morality. How can it be that government partners help each other to hide something that in any other Central European, Northern European, Southern European, Eastern European or Western European country would have long been the subject of political investigation and investigation? In Austria, it is not the Balkans, but it is as if we were the former Balkans – I have to say that now to save the Balkans. And that's why my massive plea: Remember that we also have an obligation to the population to enforce justice, tax justice and seriality. I've already told you, I think, The various managers of companies that operate and do business in the sense of the Republic think: Yes, for God's sake, I should always act honestly according to law, according to tender obligations, according to the usual rules of the awarding scheme, I should stick to all of this, but those who have not adhered to it and who have privately collected it will in no way be held politically responsible, who enjoy practically political foolly freedom! – There must be no such thing as that! It's a matter of justice to find out – I'll give you the right thing. The situation, the soup is already relatively thick. Only: We know – recently I heard it again – that the prosecutor is now considering whether it starts in 2011 or only 2012 – 2011 – once – with parts of the proceedings. But these considerations can flourish even further. Think of Libro, think of other economic processes, there it took just a decade. Would you like to have an investigation committee in ten years? The way you behave today, it looks like we're setting up an investigation committee in ten years, if we've already spent half a year. Where are we? That really is totally irresponsible! Finally, I would like to point out that, first and foremost, both the ÖVP and the SPÖ would have an advantage if we were to clarify this politically, if that were to come from the cabaret stage, to a serious investigation. Then the responsibilities would be relatively clear and clear. And then the talking finally had an end, which means: They're full of inside! If you don't stick in there, you'd have the greatest interest in getting everything straight and clear on the table, opening the files, drawing conclusions and then, as it were, being tied to the bag – but you're not doing it. What are you doing? – These “black sheep”, which are present – proven to be “indebted” et cetera – still allow their sheep to dry, no matter what cooperations. Unfortunately, the carts are not pulled out of the trash, but unfortunately – unfortunately! – deeper into the swamp! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e31727	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Herbs. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e31748	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I am quite suspicious of the fact that in the case of Karl-Heinz Grasser I wanted to put in a special passage or even make the wall for him. On the contrary: The SPÖ Group has been in truth since 2003 Karl-Heinz Grasser in connection with the BUWOG and other Causen on the heels. Of course, this Grasser system is basically a classic case for a parliamentary committee of inquiry – that is absolutely undisputed. It is only about the suspicion that public property is ultimately being maneuvered in private pockets through privatizations and procurement. This committee of inquiry must come, ladies and gentlemen, and will come. Only: a little patience, because at the moment there are simply no conditions to investigate objectively, objectively and truly seriously at the parliamentary level. Optimally, ladies and gentlemen, that should be the goal, of course, if it were long enough for all five parties to decide to set up such an investigation committee. In the last few days, there has been some willingness at the ÖVP. There's a development. A few days ago – Mr Stadler mentioned it – we heard that there was nothing to be feared anyway, because Karl-Heinz Grasser was not an ÖVP member. In a “ZIB 2” interview, the party observer of the ÖVP did not in fact exclude the agreement of the ÖVP from a parliamentary investigation committee. The clubman has also spoken out. It's imaginable. What does it look like at the moment? – At present, there is the right to release. And one thing we can't want, namely that a freshly fed Karl-Heinz Grasser comes here, something of serious, super-clean, in the interest of taxpayers, and then refuses the statement. If you want to investigate a system of grass, ladies and gentlemen, then you also need a witness grass under the duty of truth. For, in fact, Mrs. Moser, most of the Witnesses will say: What are you asking me? Ask the grass, 'cause that's the main person! What would be important is to agree on rules of play, which are indisputably optimized. After my taste, this is also being negotiated here in the High House for too long now. Mr Stadler and Mr Moser have almost kept silent about the most serious point why the setting up of an investigation committee cannot be agreed today: There is also a wild dispute among the opposition parties about the subject matter of the investigation. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Go, please!]] And if one argues about the subject matter of the investigation, how can one even imagine an agreement on witnesses, an agreement on document requirements? It's sinking from the beginning in chaos. [[Abg. Strache: That's nice now! That's really delightful!]] Therefore, I would really appeal that we see that we are establishing a five-party agreement to be able to investigate it serially and purposefully. [[Abg. Strache: You are now the defender of the grass!]] [[Abg. Grosz: How you can just shoot yourself in the knee like the SPÖ!]] Finally, an appeal to justice: That's not how it goes again, that there's some prosecutor judge that nothing has happened for a whole year. So, Mrs. Bandion-Ortner, I can only appeal: Make your feet to justice, because our patience will not last for a long time!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e31833	Next speaker: Mr Gahr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e31855	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) As an ÖVP, we clearly acknowledge that all accusations regarding influence in the field of the Ministry of Finance are clarified as soon as possible, quickly and in a complete manner. I'm very clear: We don't protect anyone and we trust in justice. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] However, as an ÖVP, we are also quite clear that there must be no pre-condemnification based on rumors and accusations. It is very likely to be determined intensively what will prove to you the list of investigations – I will give you a small overview. By December, 50 accused were agreed. 100 witnesses were questioned. House searches were carried out at 30 locations. 40 bank accounts were opened and more than 5,000 phone calls were monitored. So, I don't think it's possible to say that there's nothing going on there and justice doesn't work hard. You can always wish that some things go even faster and that a complex matter is processed even faster. But it is, as I mean, about quality, but it is also about objectivity and fairness, but not about pre-conceptions. For us, there are three reasons why we are currently refusing such an investigation committee – the emphasis is on “currently”. There is an ongoing investigation procedure. The investigations of the judiciary should not be accompanied by a political investigation body, but we should first have the judicial and prosecutors examined and then set up a political body. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Secondly, There is some experience with committee of inquiry. I myself have been involved in two committees of inquiry. It has always been shown that information and documents have migrated to the outside from research committees in particular. This does not make sense, as I mean, but it is important that we leave the authorities alone now. Thirdly, Mr Herzegovina has referred to the said persons. And Mr Stadler has quite forgotten that there is actually a second past of these people, of these so-called friends, whose closeness to us you always put to us, that there is a common past even with you! [[towards BZÖ]] [[Abg. Petzner: Go, go, go!]] [[Abg. Grosz: There they were also decent! Then they went to you and became criminal!]] Information may be missed as long as criminal proceedings are under way. In summary for our party: There's nothing to hide. The court, the prosecutor's office, is required to clarify the accusations. Secondly, We wait for criminal investigations and will evaluate the results. And thirdly, Then, when it comes to political responsibility, the right time has come to agree to an investigation committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e31920	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Fichtenbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e31941	Mr President. High house! I'd like to make it short. The list of persons – now I could say a bit frivolous, who may still be equipped with foot-belts in the future – has dealt with Mr Stadler and Mr Moser in an exhaustive manner. You don't need to add anything. Secondly, The claim that one cannot possibly decide an object of investigation, because among the opposition parties there is such a strong contradiction as to the version of the subject matter of the investigation, as Mr Herbe says, is the historic rounding of today's SPÖ day, which has shown how one can claim the opposite of what one said a second before. Darabos is an ardent fighter against maintaining military service, at the same time distributing the manuals to the newly invading soldiers, where the preface of Darabos says: The general obligation to do so is the foundation of defence policy, and it stands for it. So I've been in the House for more than four years now, and one thing I know for sure: A more intimate friendship, when it could exist between herbs and grasses, is hardly imaginable, so that I cannot understand this cloud of thought. Put to the point: Of course, we know that has a judicial side and a political side. The Freedom Party shall, in the course of an investigation committee, resolve the text of the subject-matter of the investigation in a speedy manner. “Do not be afraid, ” says a particularly important book: Make the investigative committee! We're for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e31973	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e31995	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, Karl-Heinz Grasser, the incarnate innocence we are supposed to suspect at your promise – no, certainly not! This is finally over. The issue of whether to examine justice and Parliament in parallel or not – on which Mr Herb has referred again, something else will not be left to him if he is to reject it now – is an old issue, we know, but in this case it goes in addition to it for several reasons. I am not of the opinion that this is a matter of principle, because one can act in a very parallel way. You don't investigate the same thing either. By the way, I look at how good it would be to see grassers or others who were already accused in the criminal justice, if only they would be released. But that's another thing. The areas of study are quite different, and it could also be used in parallel. Apart from that, the system includes so many people that not all have been charged for a long time. So they can't all escape at the same level as you fear here. You know that very well. However, I would like to tell you something quite different about why this is completely reversed here. In fact, the judicial system – and the investigation committee is already in progress or perhaps even if it continues so slowly – is a case for the investigation, because if there were no parliamentarians, there would not be individual committees and committee activities here, the justice would never have done anything in this case – never! [[Abg. May. Stadler: Nothing done! Nothing!]] And this, although already from Weitem, must be recognized that maybe there or there could not have voted anything. Let me tell you the cure of history, because it started here in the house – thank God we are a self-confident Parliament! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Donnerbauer.]] As early as 2003, the Subcommittee of the Court of Auditors has already begun to accept this matter, all of which is privatisation, but above all BUWOG privatisation, and this in several steps. That was already quite clear in the preparation, namely at the surcharge for those who were selected to deal with this: the Lehman Brothers Bank. There too has already been pushed that the beams bend, and you know that very well! [[Abg. Strache: That was similar to the Eurofighters!]] It's gone on like that. Many of these puzzles, these argumentative and investigative puzzles were already on the table. We shall now, on occasion, bring up this subcommittee protocol on what Mrs Moser, but also others who are still here, have worked on, because we could already see at that time how this happened, but just the last evidence was missing. However, it is based on the activities here in the house. This has resulted in a critical Court of Auditors report in this case, but nothing has yet been done! Only by a random hit at another place – because the real estate finance has been in difficulty and the accounts have finally been opened there, where you can see how useful it can be – has it been found that 10 million € have been shipped around the world. Yes, for what and for whom? – These were then re-ordered and have been distributed at the Hotel Stephansdom bar, only we do not know yet who. And that's where you think we can get out without a committee of inquiry? Mr Herzegovina, it is no longer a question of not finding out in parallel and waiting for what justice is doing, because we cannot trust this justice in the place either! It would not have done anything if these puzzles had not appeared. She wouldn't have done anything! – And should we trust them now?- Oh, my God! I wonder to this day that they have even been heard – but only in retrospect! We would not have come to the cabaretist enjoyment of these protocols – but as tragic as it is at the end of the day – there would not have been all these steps. But it was always a different job than the justice that pushed it forward, that's what it's all about! Criminal law is being prosecuted something completely different from what we have to investigate politically here. [[Abg. Amon: Oh that!]] If Mr Gahr is sent out of here and has to say that there are pre-conceptions there – yes, you say, are you all still in consolation? What do we want to say? [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Mr Meischberger, what is he: Is he pre-condemned or what? – He’s not “supernaked”, he’s in the hard argumentation knight’s armament, possibly still in a black: He says he has everything under control, completely sovereign, can explain everything, all the millions of rivers, everything superclean! – Faith You still do it yourself? That's not going out in the back and in the front! [[New calls to the ÖVP.]] If you want to continue to resist these necessary clarifications here, it will end in such a way that [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign]] As far as your performance is concerned, you must ask yourself: Where was your performance? “Supernaked” are you in any case in your argument!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e32092	Next speaker: Mr Petzner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e32113	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I'm always in favour of at least sometimes considering things a little different. That is what I am trying to do in the debate we are now holding. On the one hand, I believe that a committee of inquiry is necessary, useful and correct because the basic political problem has to be clarified and the basic political problem has to be known. This is the problem that the Austrian People's Party, at the same time, is occupying the justice and home sector, i.e. the two important ministries, which are also responsible for security, in the area of the investigation of criminal offences. [[Abg. May. Stadler: That was your sin!]] Unfortunately, as has been said several times, God's impression is that there is an attempt by an ÖVP-led judicial unit here to deliberately delay, to slow down, to slow down, above all to formulate the investigations against a former ÖVP minister. This is very, very dangerous, because this is also the result – and this must be shared with all of us – that the people of this country are gradually losing confidence in independent case law! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] This is a very dangerous development, which we cannot support. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] In my opinion, the second essential point that must not be overlooked is – and that is not the question of defending Mr Grasser – that we must also take into account and discuss how the principles of official secrecy and silence are ordered in Austria. I think it is a very problematic development that internal investigation results of the judicial system, telephone protocols on concrete investigation steps of the prosecutor's office, are constantly being landed in the media and the official secret is trampled on. In reality, it is like this: Whether one is guilty or not, it is previously broken medially in such a way that at the end of the day it is grudging whether a proper court recognizes the innocence or not! We have to be very careful, because that means to all of us that everyone in this House can meet, that he is condemned in breach of official secrecy, the silence of office over the media. This should also be discussed in such a committee as the judicial system, such as the domestic investigation authorities, keep with the principles of the confidentiality and the secrecy of office, whether they take it seriously or not. I believe that this is quite delicate and one has to look at it in peace, because the Causa Grasser is not the only Causa in which the official secrecy and also the silence of office are constantly avoided. There are laws that all have to comply with, including the domestic legal bodies. One final sentence: Mr Gahr, if you believe that Mr Stadler and Mr Grasser were friends, then you do not know at all because Mr Grasser and Mr Stadler are about as far apart as the North Pole and the South Pole. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] The reason for Mr. Grasser's being – from today's point of view, thank God – changed from the FPÖ to the People's Party is Ewald Stadler! You should know that, too. Ewald, thank you for that! So today we have a problem less and the People's Party more a problem.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e32178	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request from Members of Parliament to set up an investigation committee. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to show this by a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall also vote on the request made by Mr Dr Moser, colleagues, to set up an investigation committee. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give your consent here to a sign on this matter. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. The agenda is exhausted. [[00:10:59]] Standing Subcommittee of the Committee of the Regions: Request according to § 32e para. 2 GOG
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e32239	I announce that at today's meeting a request from Members Dr. Moser, Zanger, Grosz, colleagues, pursuant to § 32e para. 2 GOG has the necessary number of signatures. Consequently, the Standing Subcommittee of the Court of Auditors is the task of examining the conduct of the Federal Ministry of Transport, Innovation and Technology, ÖBB Holding AG and the subsidiary companies of the ÖBB Group and the Federal Ministry of Justice with regard to (a) the preparation, implementation and processing of financial transactions of ÖBB Holding and the subsidiary companies of the ÖBB Group with Deutsche Bank and other financial services providers involved, the opinions entrusted in connection with these transactions, the subsequent resolution of management contracts including the associated agreements (such as settlements) and the status of any related judicial proceedings; (b) the purchase of the Hungarian MÁV Cargo, the related advisory contracts and possible commission payments, the balance-sheet assessment in the period and the status of any related judicial proceedings; (c) procurement within the ÖBB Group since 2000, in particular the procurement of mobile phones and the conclusion of Telekom service contracts (b) to be transferred. [[00:12:51]] Request within the meaning of § 99(2) GOG
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e32276	I also announce that, in the context of the Self-employed Application 1391/A, the Court of Auditors' special file on the conduct of an examination of the commercial conduct of the MAK, the Austrian Museum of Applied Arts and Art, between 2001 and 2010, a request by 20 Members within the meaning of § 99 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. As the legal requirements are met, this examination must also be carried out without the decision of the National Council. [[00:13:32]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2011-01-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00093_d8e32303	At today's meeting, the self-employed received applications for 1391/A to 1408/A. Questions 7421/J to 7470/J were also raised. The next meeting of the National Council, which will concern business communications and allocations, will be convened at 0.14 p.m. – that is immediately after this meeting. This meeting is closed.
