ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00116_d7e8503	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen! I can ask you to take your seats and get some rest. I'll open the 116. Meeting of the National Council, which is based on a sufficiently supported request in accordance with § 46 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure. Meeting of the 2011/2012 ordinary meeting
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00116_d7e8525	The President of the Federal Republic of Germany, with a resolution of 1 January 1988. Article 28(1) of Regulation (EU) No 130/2013 provides that the Commission shall adopt implementing acts in accordance with Article 28(2) of Regulation (EU) No 1301/2013. 1 of the Federal Constitutional Act the National Council for the 6th. September 2011 at the 2011/2012 ordinary meeting of XXIV. This is the first time we have been able to reach agreement on this subject. The official protocols of 113. Meeting of 7. ==References====External links== The meeting and the unreaded parts of the official protocol of 115. Meeting of 8. In July 2011, the Parliament's management remained inconvenient and undisputed. As prevented, the MEPs are reported Mag. Muttons, ing. Hofer, Linder, Windbüchler-Souschill, Hagen, Haubner and Dr. Königshofer. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00116_d7e8557	For this meeting, the Federal Chancellery on the representation of members of the Federal Government who are present in another Member State of the European Union has made the following communication: The Federal Minister for Agriculture, Forestry, Environment and Water Management Dipl.-Ing. Nikolaus Berlakovich is represented by the Federal Minister for Finance Dr. Maria Fekter. [[10:17:26]] Absence of mandate and fishing
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00116_d7e8590	The Federal Electoral Authority has received notices that representatives Dr. Ursula Plassnik, Dr. Wolfgang Schüssel and Maria Rauch-Kallat have renounced their mandates. Mr. Thomas Einwallner and Mr. Mag. Wolfgang Gerstl was appointed to the National Council. As the electorate is already present and the members of the House are present, I will immediately make their fishing observation. After reading the vow formulas and calling for names through the writing, the new mandates will have to do their fishing with the words “I promise”. I now ask Mrs Binder-Maier, the rapporteur, to read the vow formula and the name call.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00116_d7e8645	“They will be vowed unbreakable fidelity of the Republic of Austria, constant and full observation of the constitutional laws and all other laws and conscientious fulfilment of your obligations.”
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00116_d7e8666	I very much welcome the new Members in our midst. [[General condolences.]] [[10:18:52]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00116_d7e8693	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00116_d7e9057	Mr Pilz, fellow Members, asked for urgent consideration of the written question put at the beginning of the meeting by Dr Pilz, colleagues, to the Federal Minister for Finance on the investigation of the black-blue corruption summit. The call for urgent request will take place at 1.15 p.m. I also announce that the meeting will be transferred live from 13:15 to 5 p.m. to ORF2 and to TW1 in full length. I shall interrupt the sitting until 1/15 p.m. The sitting was suspended.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00116_d7e9095	Ladies and gentlemen! I'll start the interrupted session again. [[13:19:52]] Notice of applications for the establishment of an investigation committee
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00116_d7e9122	Deputies Dr. Gabriela Moser, colleagues and colleagues, according to § 33 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure requested the use of an investigative committee to investigate the political responsibility for corruption under the Black and Blue Government. MEPs also have Dipl.-Ing. Deimek, colleagues according to § 33 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure requested the use of a committee of inquiry to investigate allegations of corruption. Finally, in accordance with § 33 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure requests the establishment of an investigative committee for the comprehensive examination of indirect and direct flows of money without any consideration to the direct environment of politicians and political parties in the cases of Telekom, Buwog and government radio. Furthermore, according to § 33 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure proposed that a debate be held on the respective request. Since the objects of all applications for the establishment of an investigation committee are similar, I will proceed in agreement with the applicants and in the sense of a practice practiced in these cases, namely that all applications are first justified and the debate is conducted under one. According to § 33 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure, the debate and the votes will take place after the urgent question. [[13:21:34]] Request for urgent procedure by Dr Peter Pilz, colleagues to the Federal Minister for Finance on the Enlightenment of the Black and Blue Corruption Summit (9229/J)
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00116_d7e9174	We are now entering the urgent debate on the written question 9229/J. As it has now reached all the Members, there is a lack of reading by the writer. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00116_d7e9454	I declare Mr. Dr. Pilz as the first questioner on the grounds of the question referred for a preliminary ruling pursuant to § 93 para. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00116_d7e9475	Madam President. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen on the government bank and here in the plenary room! You're probably going to be more and more like me in recent times: When I drive in the morning from Kaisermühlen to the Parliament and to my office, I meet more and more people on the street who always repeat a sentence: All politicians are Gauner! [[Call the ÖVP: They mean!]] I hear that over and over again, and it's very important to tell these people: I'm sure that's not true! [[It was in favour of the Greens and SPÖ and FPÖ delegates.]] There are, of course, in the SPÖ, of course, there are politicians in the ÖVP who rightly reject this. [[Call the FPÖ: Neither do the Greens!]] We do not have a problem with all-embracing politicians and politicians, but we have a problem with the inheritance of six years of black and blue government, which we can only now systematically work out in a parliamentary and judicial manner. [[Abg. Grosz: “Noricum”, Chamber of Workers, “Lucona”, AKH!]] I'm telling you something else personal: I came to this house 25 years ago. At the time, no one would have come to the idea that politics would be subject to such a general suspicion. No one would have said at the time: That's all a swamp! All parties are equal! – No, there have been some very, very large cases of corruption that have rightly occupied this House, they have borne the name “Lucona”, “Noricum”, construction cartel and so on, but these were still individual cases. [[Intervocations at ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Grosz: “Consum”, Voest, Donawitz!]] In 2000, however, something quite different happened: In 2000, there was a turnaround, but was this really a political turnaround to reform? [[Call the FPÖ:Yes!]] – Try to balance: Health, care, school, university, infrastructure, energy transition, administrative reform – has one of these problems been solved under black and blue? [[Call the FPÖ:Yes!]] Can we lean back today and say: Yes, the government has nothing more to do with school reform, university reform, infrastructure reform, administrative reform, army reform, health reform, care reform and the ecological reform of our economic system!Unknown term type: "%s".? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amon.]] – Nothing has happened in this regard! We are still pushing all these problems. A single project has been successfully carried out under black and blue: the plundering of this republic! [[Call the ÖVP:Hello!]] The looting of the Republic of Austria! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] What happened? – There have been three major projects, and they have been carried out. Projects one was the so-called privatisation of infrastructure and services companies. Projects two were the beginning of the systematic reduction of the social state. And projects three were the elimination of control by courts and by the Austrian Parliament. That was successful. This has been achieved to the detriment of this Republic! This has caused a total damage of at least €10 billion due to the so-called privatisations. This has led to serious damage to confidence in the rule of law, in courts and in the criminal police. This has led, in particular, to a loss of confidence in government policy and in far-reaching areas in the National Council's policies, as almost no one could imagine before 2000. What happened? – There has been a division of work under the government of Schüssel/Haider/Grasser: All power for the ÖVP and as much lubrication money as possible for the FPÖ. - That was the division of work. You can go through and determine project projects; in so-called privatisations: Federal publisher, if we are still occupied, something has been forgotten, Dorotheum, will still occupy us, something has been forgotten, the so-called privatization of the Buwog, the federal real estate, the successful attempt to move the table silver of this republic, from which the budget has benefited greatly year after year, to friends for whom not only Karl-Heinz Grasser, Hochegger and Meschberger stand, and the fortunate attempt of the so-called plan “Minerva”, via Mr Wolf von Magna – to give a grass friend – the entire voest behind the back of the National Council and from parts of the Federal Government at a mock price to the Magna Group. Procurement: Eurofighter – today employs courts as a result of the Eurofighter Investigation Committee, house searches in Vienna, arrests in Italy. Total lubrication suspicion: 107 million euros in respect of which we do not yet know who had the hand open and who benefited from it all. Tetron, the Authority's radio: 40 million damage per year. What happened at Tetron? – We can talk openly about it: Adonis had been bought a long time ago. It had also begun to set up Adonis as a government radio. Then Mr. Mensdorff-Pouilly came suddenly with a suitcase – it was at least a money case. And then a hunting company met in the basement of the Raiffeisen-Haus at Michaelerplatz, in the Looshaus, and this so-called hunting-tribal table, in whose board, for example, the Director General of ÖIAG, Mr Fischer from Telekom and some others sit, has received a high visit from a non-hundred hunter, a passionate non-hundred hunter, by Ernst Strasser personally – I have the diaries and the calendar of Ernst Strasser. And that's exactly where everything has been discussed. There were the two cabinet employees there, Krumel and a second one, who then packed it all in and moved it over and were rewarded with high posts at Alcatel. Now the Minister for Finance or now the ÖIAG is setting up an Audit Committee to examine what happened at Telekom. The capital representatives send two gentlemen to this Examining Committee, Mr Beyrer and Mr Geiger, formerly Siemens – both passionate hunters, both members of the hunting tribe. They are now supposed to find out what has lulled hunting friends Ali. This will be a bit difficult because Mr. Beyrer and Mr. Geiger have hunted not only in Scotland at Mensdorff-Pouilly at the invitation of Telekom – at least Mr. Beyrer – but also in Luising in Burgenland. They were always hunters at Mensdorff-Pouilly. I don't know why nobody's taken care of it yet. I hope that the Minister of Finance will finally take care of how it is possible that the hunting company Mensdorff-Pouilly, which has constantly hunted from Scotland to Burgenland at the invitation of Count and Telekom, should now clarify the Telekom scandal. How's that going? Is that clear on the hunting table? Is there a discussion on how many deer shot down and how many commissions were collected next door? What, Mrs. Federal Minister, do you imagine yourself under control? And let us take the next example, OMV – also in gestion and also in representation and access of the ÖIAG. I asked: Lubrication charges against Mensdorff-Pouilly again. 1 million € from the OMV without performance transferred to the MPA account of Mensdorff-Pouilly and half a million € in February 2005 to a letterbox company called Brodman to the British Virgin Islands. And the legitimate? - Mensdorff-Pouilly! And then the ÖIAG asks and inquires about the OMC Board of Directors: Yes, OMC Board of Directors, what happened? – And she gets the answer: It's an old story! It's all right. – And with this the testing of the ÖIAG has ended. Nothing has been tested. We have now handed it over to the prosecutor's office, because the suspicion is at least as serious as it is at Telekom. But if after ÖIAG and after the owner's representative, namely the Ministry of Finance, there's not much going on here. Advisor: Mensdorff, Hochegger – should I list all this to you now? Now let me ask you a rhetorical question, especially the ladies and gentlemen of the Austrian People's Party: Is it really imaginable that a whole parliamentary club of the Austrian People's Party and changing government man and women of the Austrian People's Party will not notice anything at all for six years? Has You really didn't get anything, how at least half of the assets of this republic have disappeared in a dubious way under your eyes, in black and blue channels? [[Call the ÖVP – in the direction of the speaker –: This is shameless!]] Did none of you get anything? This is a very crucial point. Because either you are unable to control or you knew. And no one can tell me that a highly intelligent politician like Dr. Wolfgang Schüssel was unable to recognize that something was wrong. Dr. Schüssel also had to know that the BUWOG was worth a multiple of €900 million. Dr. Schüssel also had to know when the blue-black networks Meischberger, Hochegger, Mensdorff-Pouilly are being pointed out in daily newspapers and weekly magazines that it is worth looking at. Why has the ÖVP been systematically looked away? And why was your only response to the references of journalists and members of opposition: These are dirty dowel campaigns, we don't even look at them! – They bear a great debt and a great responsibility that this system has been able to work on for so long. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] And now away from the ÖVP and to the “party of the decent and the discreet”, the “sacred and discreet”: Prinzhorn – FPÖ, Meischberger – FPÖ, Plach – FPÖ, Muhr – FPÖ, Reichhold – FPÖ, Gorbach – FPÖ, Wittauer – FPÖ, Rumpold – FPÖ, Martin Graf – FPÖ and, of course, Karl-Heinz Grasser – FPÖ. [[Abg. Strache: That's all wrong! BZÖ!]] [[Abg. Blow: ÖVP!]] Sometimes I have the feeling that the party from which FPÖ has learned the most is the KPdSU, because whenever there was a change of power there, the new party leader has gone here and has rehearsed people from the common photos. These photos are known. And something similar has also happened in the FPÖ. On the FPÖ homepage there have long been the photos: Meischberger embraces Strache from left, Meischberger embraces Strache from right, Meischberger around the neck of H.-C. Stitch, and all the others, too. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] They've all been rehearsed. Why did they disappear? At the KPdSU it was still a political responsibility, with you it's already party motivating! How much of the FPÖ remains at all, how much of your recent party history will be left if you put it all away? And, Mr. Klubobmann, if I am not mistaken, you have been in the Federal Party's leadership since March 2004. Of course you can say: At the time I was the little one, and nobody said anything to me!, but from March 2004 on, never get up, never say, here must finally be political consequences in our party?- Oh, my God! [[Abg. Strache: Have you missed the Knittelfeld? – You missed the Knittelfeld! That's funny how you're twisting things today!]] You have a great opportunity to make it different once, and this great possibility is called Uwe Scheuch. If an Austrian court – not legally – is a citizen dealer who is in the urgent suspicion of being involved in illegal party financing, if – not legally – a judgment falls at first instance, then imagine what Mr Strache would have done if it had affected a member of the ÖVP, SPÖ or any other party. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Graf]] – Shut up, let go! and lock up the rest!, that would have been Mr Strache's proposal. [[Abg. Strache: This is your diction!]] And now, the citizenship dealer Scheuch is suddenly a martyr, a good man, and the whole “Jagdgesellschaft” is persecuting the poor liberal citizenship dealer. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Not a good man!]] So far has it been in this Republic today that as a liberal, one can no longer even deal with citizenship without all being the same after one. - Let's leave this to the courts! Let us leave this to the committee of inquiry! Mr. Strache, we are not going to question you there. That's what voters do. It is enough for us if we directly consult the citizens of citizenship in order to be able to clarify the system of the Freedom Party here a little more precisely. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The basic colors of corruption are black and blue. But now it is very important that, after a start in restoring confidence in justice – and in contrast to the black and blue years, there are again a large number of prosecutors and prosecutors, especially in the economic group and in the corruption prosecutorship, who work up one case after another – it is only seen to be able to do their work unhindered. The only thing we need to do is to reverse the overcoloring of the police, especially the criminal police. But that's going to be an extra concern for us. What are we supposed to do now? What is the National Council to do? What is the Federal Government supposed to do? What is the Austrian policy to do? – It is the first question of education. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: You want to paint, don't you?]] We need clarification because that is what people in this Republic rightly demand: complete reconnaissance of all black and blue affairs. It can't be that the feeling is right: The little perpetrators come along, and the great perpetrators can judge it. The small perpetrators are sentenced to get the big, black-blue perpetrators instead of a prison sentence a discharge. The little perpetrators go to prison, the big, the black-blue perpetrators, who go into retirement and they get a golden handshake, like Mr. Huber, Mr. Sundt, Mr. Ötsch, and many more who go to your account, Mr. Strache, and to your account from the ÖVP. [[Call at the FPÖ:Who's going on Strache's account?]] - So, that's the first one. The second is: If we have done their work in the Investigation Committee, and if the criminal courts have done their work in parallel, then it is about responsibility and reparation. We can get ourselves a lot, unfortunately not everything, back from the money. And I want us to get back the Eurofighter billions, and I want us to get the BUWOG millions back because we need this money! Alone with what happened in Telekom through the machinations of the Lords Sleep, Taus, Cordt and Sundt – 600 million € cleared! – we could have financed three years of university reform. Just with what has disappeared from Eurofighter – and hopefully can be recovered – we could put our care and health system in a fundamental position and finance it. Only what has been thrown away from the BUWOG is enough to finance the entry into an energy transition. Ladies and gentlemen! These are the real problems! Austria is a rich country, Austria is a country with many talents, where people pay their taxes, work honestly, where an honest majority is financing everything in this republic and can simply not bear it anymore, that an dishonest majority in politics is diverting it into black and blue channels. This must be done through responsibility and reparation! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] At the end of the day, we are talking about a major political start. It's about reforms and it's about showing people through the sharpest anticorruption laws, which are imaginable that we all want a new beginning together. Glass boxes, clean parties – of course, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! Finally, support our initiatives to make illegal party funding in Austria punishable for the first time. And you also take another step that we as the greens have long gone: Open the election costs! You are publicly accused by experts of concealing half of your election costs. Election costs, which one conceals – primarily the liberals, but also ÖVP and SPÖ – are usually indications of illegal party funding. Open this up! Let us simply make false information about election costs and simply punishable! Ladies and gentlemen, there is an honest and decent majority in this Republic. As a Green Party, we are the only party with clean hands that is not involved in corruption,... – Yes, I am proud that we are fundamentally different from the other parties of this House in this respect too! [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the FPÖ]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Green – take note of how it all takes note – cannot be bought. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] It is about the decent and honest majority in this Republic being finally supported by a majority of decent and honest people in this National Council. If we try to use the Committee of Inquiry, you agree! And agree when we try to restore people's confidence in the policies of this Republic through the sharpest laws that are possible by a new beginning! It's worth it.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00116_d7e9765	To answer the question, Mrs Federal Minister Dr. Fekter spoke. The speaking time should not exceed 20 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00116_d7e9788	Madam President. High house! Values Advisors! Before I come to answer the question put to me, let me say the following clear words: I condemn the actions in space that apparently occurred years ago in Telekom, just as I deeply abhor any kind of corruption. I am deeply opposed to the mentality of using the state or close-to-state establishments as a self-service shop. I myself come from a medium-sized company. I know how hard the money is and how hard it is to secure jobs. And that is why I have no understanding of this self-service mentality of close-to-state enterprises. [[As a result, the Commission has not yet received any comments from the interested parties.]] I agree that the allegations will be resolved in full, and I assume that Deutsche Telekom will cooperate constructively with the authorities in the preparation of this dark chapter of its company history. I am in favour of the fact that those responsible have to bear all the legal consequences that our rule of law provides for. Those who go into the swamp of corruption must expect the state to strike back with all its rule of law. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. May. Johann Maier.]] If the accusations prove true, there must be no excuse with those responsible, be there still such glamorous names. However, I point out all attempts, no matter which side they come from, to put the business scandal of the ÖVP's Telekom back to the most decisive and sharpest. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Oellinger: You're not a party officer!]] The main focus of the investigations is, among other things, the former politicians of the Liberties, the BZÖ – current FPK or Noch-FPÖ – and, above all, former directors of this company, which are not to be attributed to the ÖVP. [[Abg. Grosz: Schüssel was the Federal Party Minister of the ÖVP!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: The grass was never at the ÖVP!]] [[Call the BZÖ:The Mensdorff-Pouilly...!]] It is the cheapest populism to abuse the Deutsche Telekom's business scandal to adapt the era bowl. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Grosz: This is all an evil invention!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: The Taus was never with the blacks!]] And, ladies and gentlemen, it is also quite transparent when a black and blue bite is going off from the greens right now. It is transparent because you want to reach power at the next election and therefore make black-blue currently. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I also strongly reject, Mr Pilz, what you have said here that half the wealth of the ÖIAG and its privatisations has disappeared. [[Unrest in the hall]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]] On the contrary: They were successful privatizations that have depleted the debt mountain. And I'll call myself a debt reduction! It is urgent that we turn to this issue again. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] However, you have in me a co-deputy, when it comes to clarifying that Deutsche Telekom's business scandal without delay, in any case also assigning the political responsibility properly and then drawing up these allegations accordingly. Against this background, I fully support the advances of my party chairman Spindelegger, as soon as possible, to prohibit commission payments in public procurement and real estate and in legal transactions with the Republic and with public contracts. [[Abg. Oellinger: You speak as a member of the government, not as an ÖVP official!]] The ÖVP has already requested all this transparency in its minority report on the Eurofighter Investigation Committee. [[Jö-Rufe at BZÖ.]] Unfortunately, we did not find any competitors at that time. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Grosz: You turned him off! Abg. Strache: The Committee has been turned off!]] – Read more in the Eurofighter minority report of the ÖVP. [[Abg. Strache: The old investigation committee on Eurofighter has been turned off by ÖVP and SPÖ, as it has become hot!]] This is the manuscript of the ÖVP: Problem identified, analysed, proposed solutions and implemented as quickly as possible, with concrete proposals and not mere polemics, as they come from the opposition. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: (to the Federal Ministers Dr. Mitterlehner and Dr. Däderle pointing) The government colleagues from ÖVP are becoming more and more pale!]] With our transparency package, we have set the course in the right direction. With the lobbyist register, the reform of the party, advertising transparency, the question of deputies et cetera, the ÖVP has clearly demonstrated in all these points the side on which it stands and that we are not the roadblockers on the question of transparency, because transparency is the only effective weapon against corruption. [[Abg. Grosz: Strasser, Mensdorff,...!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Grosz: You can see that at the Strasser!]] And now to answer the questions. Question 1: Question 1 does not fall within the scope of the Federal Ministry of Finance. Questions 2 and 3: It is exclusively the responsibility of the respective corporate bodies to clarify all the accusations of corruption and to take appropriate measures. The relevant information measures have already been initiated by the Supervisory Board. Question 4: Vice-Chancellor Spindelegger proposed a general ban on commission payments relating to public contracts, legal transactions, especially in real estate services. I support him and will soon bring in an appropriate government proposal. Question 5: My answer to question 3 shows that the reimbursement of ads due to the suspicion of price manipulation in Telekom Austria falls not within the competence of the ÖIAG, but within the scope of Deutsche Telekom's corporate bodies. However, it should be noted that the ÖIAG Board of Directors is an initiative by the ÖIAG Board of Directors. As Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Telekom AG, Beyrer is an extraordinary Supervisory Board meeting of Telekom Austria AG on 2nd December. The following was held on September: An ad hoc control committee shall be set up which shall be responsible for the lighting of acquisitions and real estate transactions by an independent, external investigation team enhanced with international experts who shall report to the control committee. This was the consequence of the first report, which the Telekom Board of Directors also sent to the Public Prosecutor's Office. This investigation team is to cooperate with the internal revision of Telekom Austria AG, which is granted by the Management Board for this investigation. The investigation team will also analyse Deutsche Telekom Austria AG's compliance system and, where appropriate, make any suggestions for improvement. With regard to a recovery of all payments under the share option programme 2000 and a validation of claims for damages against the harmors, the appointment of a lawyer by the Supervisory Board and the Board of Directors of Telekom is carried out with integrated implementation. Furthermore, the establishment of the trust accounts necessary for the repayments was decided. In addition, the express recommendation of the Supervisory Board of Telekom Austria AG to the Executive Board is to strengthen the Group Organisation to be an external expert as responsible for Group compliance, which reports to the Control Committee in need. The goal of the Supervisory Board of Telekom Austria AG is to implement quickly, but in particular professionally, taking into account a balanced cost-benefit ratio. A final report will be available by the Annual General Meeting in 2012. Questions 6 to 8: Due to the provisions of the 2000 ÖIAG Act, there is no such thing as The ÖIAG's reporting obligation to the Federal Minister for Finance or the Federal Minister for Finance on internal transactions in their participating companies. In addition, the fact that Telekom Austria AG and ÖMV are listed companies and that the principle of equal treatment of shareholders with regard to the provision of information must be observed. Of course, I also adhere to the share law. On the question 9: Against the background of the exchange rate movement and media coverage, financial market surveillance immediately took place on 1st July. ==References====External links== Question 10: No infringement of the provisions of the Stock Exchange Act in force at that time could be detected. I repeat: on the provisions in force at the time. It should be noted that the Stock Exchange Act implements the Market Abuse Directive from 1. January 2005 – that is, only after that – was substantially aggravated and the same facts have since been a prohibited market manipulation. However, the case at that time had to be assessed according to the old legal situation. On the question 11: The evidence was missing. In view of the legal situation in force at the time, no criminal conduct could be demonstrated. Question 12: I am not aware of any failure of controls in the area of the Federal Ministry of Finance. On the question 13: I refer to my previous statements that operational matters fall within the competence of the Executive Board and Supervisory Board. Question 14: The evaluation of the management activity of the ÖIAG Board of Directors is exclusively the matter of the Supervisory Board of ÖIAG. But I myself have no doubt about the personal integrity of power. Beyrer. Nor do I doubt his professional competence. Questions 15 and 16: As already explained in numerous written parliamentary requests, the Federal Ministry of Finance commissioned the agency Hochegger and the company Matrix from 2000 to 2007 with projects of €3 013 592. In 2000: PR advice on information to the public on financial and economic policies, as well as on budget adjustment measures of € 50 870.98. In 2001: PR-Consultation on public information on financial and economic policies as well as measures to reorganise the budget, open letter from the Federal Government, graphic design of the advertisement in the Financial Times, design and development of a PowerPoint lecture for the Marketing Club, the concept for the Minister of State for Euro changeover, the collection of questions for the virtual Euro consultants for the Ministry of Finance's homepage. All these orders amounted to € 458 716.93 in 2001. In 2002: PR-Consultation on public information on financial and economic policies as well as budgetary reorganisation measures, the development of the Ministry of Finance's corporate design, the development of a design for financial and customs offices, the image rights for this design for the financial and customs offices amounting to €141,204. In 2003: PR-Consultation on public information on financial and economic policies as well as measures for budget restructuring, information and communication campaign for small and medium-sized enterprises, adaptation of the Ministry of Finance's homepage, the glossary for the Ministry of Finance's homepage and the development of the small and medium-sized business website of € 47 675.20. In 2004, FinanzOnline was built up and managed medially, the Tax Comparatives button was introduced and the graphic elements expanded, all in the order of €7 296.69. In 2005 there was an order regarding the info tour and the ASEM meeting in the order of 33 158,40 €. In 2006, the EU Presidency received €4 144.80. No further payments to these undertakings were made from 2007 onwards. Questions 17 to 19: The project “Adonis” was and also the project “BOS” is designed and developed in such a way that according to project progress, i.e. roll-out of the radio service throughout Austria, and thus the actual use of the radio was to be paid and are therefore automatically a rise in the amount of user charges. The more radio in Austria is expanded, the more charges the Republic has to pay. For these charges of use, as well as for other complementary expenditure incurred in the Ministry of the Interior for the BOS project, the total budget available to the BMI was made available on a budgetary basis. Any excess of the amount provided by the BMI for ‘BOS’ was and still have to be covered in the overall budget. Question 20: In 2006, a BMI payment obligation of € 29.9 million against master-talk, which was met by the BMI, was imposed as a result of a closed arbitration procedure. The cover for this was provided by the BMI within the total budget available to it. On question 21: The agreements of the Ministry of the Interior with the countries of Lower Austria and Styria to roll out the radio network across these states did not result in any budget overruns. On the question 22: The Ministry of Finance points out that, contrary to the present question, there is no financial country management Linz. The following could be meant: At the Linz Terminal Tower site, the Finanzamt Linz, the Finanzamt Freistadt Rohrbach Urfahr with its location Linz Urfahr, the Finanzamt für Fees und Verkehrstaxen, which now also manages the gambling, the customs office Linz Wels with its location Linz, the tax and customs coordination of the region Mitte with its location Linz, the large-scale audit with its site Linz, the tax base with the Linz location, the Bundesfinanzakademie with the foreign office Linz, the Independent Financissenat with the foreign office Linz. At this list alone, you can see that the previous fragmentation at the different locations was inefficient and therefore justified the transfer to the tower. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: And what did it use?]] The total expenses related to the transfer and accommodation in the Terminal Tower amount to 15.9 million to this day. As a result, much higher costs could be avoided due to extensive need for renovation in the old sites. The old sites were abandoned. On the question 23: In the absence of competence, the BMF cannot disclose any information on the BIG's real estate balance or rental interest payments. Questions 24 and 25: In accordance with § 48a of the Federal Tax Code, there is an obligation to keep confidentiality in relation to the taxation procedure. I cannot, therefore, announce any circumstances or circumstances unknown to the public from concrete tax procedures of the persons or undertakings mentioned in the request. On the question 26: ==References====External links== In July 2011, a request for assistance was received from the Public Prosecutor's Office in Vienna. ==References== In July 2011, this request was met with the transmission of extensive documents and explanation. Questions 27 to 31: The Austrian Federal Constitution, in particular the Federal Ministry Act, is very precise, for which the Federal Government or the individual departments are responsible. It is therefore, among other things, in the responsibility of the individual ministers to take appropriate steps to clean up, but also to prevent and clean up damage in their own field. I can assure you that I will not hesitate to take appropriate action in my area of responsibility in the event that a specific damage is to be detected. For my area of responsibility, I should also like to say in general on the issue of corruption here, that the Federal Ministry of Finance and its employees are rightly regarded as objective, honest, sincere and correct. We fulfil our tasks with utmost care and under the command of transparency. Corruption has no place here. With appropriate information and training and the associated awareness-raising, we will continue to ensure that the Austrian financial management can further strengthen its reputation as the rule of law. In doing so, we are also sending an important signal throughout the country to take our responsibility as a model and a pioneer in the fight against corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00116_d7e10161	Mrs. Club Chairman Dr. Glawischnig-Piesczek spoke on business treatment. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00116_d7e10186	Madam President. I would like to remind you: In accordance with Article 93 of the Rules of Procedure, Members of the Green Group have sent a urgent question to the Minister for Finance of the Republic and not to the Vice-President of the ÖVP. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I have the impression that this is not to be separated. I think we should all be interested in an unruly investigation of these affairs, and this is especially true of the ministers of the current Federal Government. I will do this again in the President-in-Office's office tomorrow. I consider it incompatible with the Rules of Procedure that a minister from the Government Bank argues exclusively on behalf of the ÖVP and defends the ÖVP. This is not acceptable from this place.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00116_d7e10225	For business treatment: Mr. Klubobmann's head. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00116_d7e10249	Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) In my view, the founder of the written question, Mr Pilz, has attacked and accused parties, persons, particularly those of our party, in a completely unacceptable and also incorrect manner, without mentioning any evidence. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: An abuse of the Rules of Procedure!]] It is a minister who, of course, was nominated by a party – in this case by the ÖVP – for this office, not to presume to have to listen to it, without even having to say any word of the replica. And I think the Federal Minister has done this in a very fine way.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00116_d7e10291	We are now going into the debate on the urgent question. I would draw attention to the fact that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 10 minutes, with each club having a total speaking time of 25 minutes. First of all, Mr Magistrate. Kogler. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00116_d7e10320	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! A black and blue corruption summary is a black and blue corruption summary. – We have still been relatively gracious with this title. [[Abg. Head: Thank you!]] There is also the formulation and the ascribe that Austria – the quote is literally – is a “corruption oasis”, i.e. a wet biotope in an area where it is all about cleaner. Just this situation, as Austria is now in Europe, has led to black and blue. Do you know who this quote is from? – Head of the OECD's anti-corruption working group, by Mark Pieth. He has repeated this several times, observing the processes that have been revealed in recent months and years, but all of which have their cause in the black and blue era and which we still have to deal with now. And that's the problem. There would be a great deal of failure for the Republic if we could deal with other issues. But unfortunately, we still have to run after these hundreds of millions that you and you, at the time, were under your responsibility. [[towards ÖVP]] [[towards FPÖ]] Eurofighter – a black and blue procurement, BUWOG privatisation – a black and blue scandal, the Telekom issue – as well! Let me tell you something else on this occasion. If we really want to create a new beginning, then this will be a prerequisite – whether it fits you or not – for the following: the clarification and the reprocessing, second, the bringing about of just punishment – that will now make the courts and prosecutors hope, especially as they finally work something – and thirdly at least the attempt of partial reparation. Without these points – Peter Pilz has clearly explained this in his explanatory statement of the request – this new beginning, which is so urgently necessary for this Republic, will not succeed. In this context, of course, one has to say that it has not been very constructive right now, Mrs Federal Minister, how your answers have failed. You already refused the first one. This concerns that there is a connection with the ÖIAG for which you are responsible in your ownership at Telekom. It is about Mr Kloibmüller, until recently Her long-standing chief of cabinets, has shownly intervened that Deutsche Telekom itself should not research exactly what happened at the time. – This is not a credible start, certainly not! That is why, I believe, it is so essential that we get here as soon as possible in these committee of inquiry or at least in this committee of inquiry. You have the opportunity today to bring your voting behaviour in this direction. Mrs. Federal Minister! You said that the Federal Ministry of Finance had nothing to do with this whole thing. – If you do not want to be personally or personally, it remains quite clear that there is a responsibility of your place of business for the ÖIAG; and this has not only to do with Telekom, it also has to do with the OMV. There is, in fact, a decisive influence of the Republic everywhere – we know it from the Court of Auditors. Of course! These are not private stock companies at all. There is public influence there, and if you already have it, you have to be credible accordingly. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] And it doesn't make any sense at all, just as you have literally said it – we have written it along – to then appeal to the stock law. That's incredible! Yes, do you think the stock law is a free letter for transparency and corruption? – It is exactly the other way round. The Austrian stock market square suffers exactly from the misunderstandings we find here. In any case, it is one of the other in this political swamp and in this economic swamp, when we think only of Meinl AG and what has happened there, which has led to a damage to the stock exchange and financial place – and not to the banking investigation committee at the time. That is exactly what I have to keep you from this point of view. Many of these scandals could have been exposed much earlier and prevented annoyance, if not black, phased, but even red had even begun to turn away the enlightenments that had already been very extensive. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amon.]] It was so in the Eurofighter Research Committee that at first 100 million – in Schilling – landed quite clearly at Rumpold, where it was obvious that he had passed this money on. They have prevented further information. In the meantime, however, it is about €100 million, which have been charged with probably bribery money, where we have to look at the matter. The same applies in the area of Telekom with the acquisition of Bulgarian Mobile Tel. There have been hundreds of millions of people who are missing from the taxpayer and the telecommunications operator – only the public and the BAWAG – in the end, because certain people in the Republic have made it easier by hundreds of millions. In your eyes! And later on, you prevented the investigation. You know exactly how you treated the investigation committees at the time and actually hindered and hindered the work. And now it's about this new start for the future, about this restart. Mrs. Federal Minister! You mentioned one thing correctly: At the heart of all of this is the transparency regime. That's right. The more transparency is provided for and also enforced by law, the less anti-corruption provisions you need to follow daily. But what happened here? – Austria is the final light in Europe when it comes to the disclosure of the party donations. And this has its bad reason: That's the reason why They constantly conduct and finance election campaigns that you could never dispute with the public revenue at all. That is why you have so far refused to want to disclose the party donations, but the voters have a right to know from whomever you, you and you get paid for your election struggles, because these interests represent you – and possibly not those of the citizens in your constituency. [[Show session management options]] These are fundamental facilities that we need now. This will be provided for by the international anti-corruption group of the GRECO Council of Europe. We're on the test stand here. The report in December will be devastating, precisely because we do not have a transparent party donation system and precisely because we do not have adequate anti-corruption rules in criminal law for Members. That's exactly what's going to be checked. That's where we'll be back on the prange. And now there is a chance to reverse. It's never too late to reverse. You should really agree with all of these provisions, which are already in place here in the House, which you should only agree with more. In order to make this sample of nails again today, I am still bringing forward the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Kogler, my fellow Members, on Glazed party funds, which I also explain in his fundamentals, are precisely about exposing all party donations, prohibiting anonymous donations and, in particular, prohibiting ‘donation laundering’, which is a matter of giving companies money to you through interest groups and explicitly concealing the whole thing. All of this, for example, is being punished in Germany. That's what it's supposed to be in Austria. That is why – I tell you –: Voices They submit their requests to the Committees of Inquiry. The day will come when you can't stop it anyway. The sooner, the better.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00116_d7e10394	The motion for a resolution which has just been submitted is sufficiently supported, is explained in its basic guidelines and is in accordance with § 53 para. 4 GOG to the MEPs. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00116_d7e10483	Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Cap. I also wish to set the clock to 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00116_d7e10505	Madam President. High house! That is exactly what the previous speaker has asked for. We have already said here in our opposition time that there must be transparency in the party donations. I said that more than €7 000 in the calendar year, which must be made transparent and not just shown to the Court of Auditors. [[Abg. Grosz: 60 000 € to Gartlehner!]] We want transparency in the lobbyist jungle. Mr Mensdorff-Pouilly and all his employees can register here. [[Abg. Grosz: And Mr. Gartlehner?- Oh, my God!]] There will be clear rules. We have already asked the opposition to sit here at the negotiating table and to seek a settlement with us. [[Abg. Grosz: Gusenbauer?! Gartlehner?! ...!]] And we are in favour of strengthening the Procuratorate of Corruption – whether it is a human or a financial one – so that it can act effectively. There will be incompatibilities, no lobbyism for Members, a strengthening of the provisions in the anti-corruption law. [[Abg. Bucher: When?]] All of this should now be: radical, complete investigation and legal consequences so that something like this cannot happen again! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Moser: Let's decide!]] But we do not want there to be a competition for oblivion or eviction here. When I think of the year 2000: What was new about this government? – It was new to this government that the liberals were in the government. [[Abg. Amon: No!]] The ÖVP was inside before. The ÖVP has suddenly set up the Federal Chancellor. The then top candidate Wolfgang Schüssel said that if he's third, he's going to opposition. It's black and blue. This must be observed in peace and quiet: Facts. I'm just counting facts here. There has been no electoral mandate either. If this government did not exist, we would not be there today, among other things, and we would have to work out this list of all claimed and probably real painterries. That is clear here once and for all! But what was the year 2000? - Yes, Mr Martin Graf, I'll be right back to you. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Just like 1983! There we were already in the government!]] – What was the year 2000? – It was also the year of the great seducer. I looked at that. There's one thing that happened at the time and he said: We need the Third Republic. It must finally be for the workers, the diligent, the skilled, to have a representation in this government. Something has to change radically. [[Call to the ÖVP: There was a reason!]] – Yes, Wolfgang Schüssel has enabled him to come to the government. But let me continue. What did he announce at the time? . He said he was going to act with all his strength – in 1986 – against post chess, political packing, privilege economy. ==References====External links== In September 1994 it was said: We want moral policy and not politics. – That sounds like the white cock these days! [[Abg. Noricum! Lucona! -Blecha! Gratz! BAWAG! ‘Eurolim’! ...!]] But something else is best, and that was already a hit. Then: When I think of the great-grandfather, of the source of the blue and orange presence in this house, I have to say: The fact that you have a common primer is undisputed, because you were with him sometime. [[Abg. Petzner:... an accusation?]] You should express this in all clarity here. [[Abg. Grosz: This is the formation of a criminal association!]] But one who might prefer to bite off the tongue today is Peter Westenthaler. ==References== In July 1998, the FPÖ once again had a nose in front of the old parties when it comes to responsibility, cleanliness and respect for policy. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Just quoted!]] So that's part of the cabaret, that's a special class statement! And even better... – Yes, that's right. [[Abg. Grosz: He can read error-free!]] Right. – If I look at everything we have to work on today, I can only say: [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: What did we do to you?]] I can get in there right now at the Kärntner Landeshypo Alpe-Adria Bank, the housebank of the two parties' draw-father here. This is a billion tomb of the special class there. A billion tomb! [[Abg. Petzner: Deutsche Bank!]] Finally, there is an investigation committee in the Kärntner Landtag. But I want you... – No. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Landesbank!]] There is something to be said about the displacement. I looked at the “ZiB 2” interview that Armin Wolf conducted with Martin Graf. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Municipal credit!]] Armin Wolf asked Martin Graf – the interview has almost cult status –: At that time, was your Cheuch FPÖ Secretary General? - Today, six months absolutely. We'll see if it's in the second instance. Heinz-Christian Strache – Member of the Federal Party Board; Herbert Kickl – personal speaker by Jörg Haider; today's second Secretary General Vilimsky – Managing Director of FPÖ Vienna; John Gudenus – in the Federal Board. And then he asked the question – so today many people who were already there at the time –: Wouldn't you be interested in what the FPÖ got 200 000 € from Telekom for? Martin Graf's answer: Of course! And that is why we also want to have information, finally a committee of inquiry, because we no longer trust justice to the extent that we think it appropriate. – He probably had a conversation with the Bohemian Minister of Justice. You simply say and simply, you can't tell it internally, you need an investigation committee extra for the FPÖ. – This is fascinating because it actually shows in what situation you need to be obvious when you get into this displacement and forgetfulness device that is at its height by saying in your opinion: Furthermore, Mr Grasser has voted for us as the first – which has not been voted. Mr Grasser has approved of you and then went to the Wolfgang Schüssel, both of you have made a press conference, and he has suddenly been the Partyless Minister of Finance. – That’s the truth! We should just stick to the truth! And if we've been working up the story since 2000, then also because of that, so that these giant seductors who stand up and promise the people the blue from heaven and tell them, yes, the decent and the skilled should get another chance that say it's everyone else, since there are so many smarots running around, we have to eliminate this republic, these old parties, these privileges, this coup, this crime. But then, if they're there themselves, we're sitting here today and we can clean up the shards of this time. That's what it's all about! It is about the fact that never again has anyone with this temptation claim and these lies been as successful as it was in 2000. And this is a very important point that we have to deal with here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I don't want to continue the list at all, the speaking time is slowly going to the end, but if you look at it... – Oh, yes, no, no. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] – If you look at all of this, I have to tell you: Now, justice is in demand, and it is a fundamental question. That is also the case, and we will support it. Whether this is these blue-light costs with a billion costs, the hypo-Alpe-Adria, the citizenship purchase, the BUWOG-privatization, the Telekom, the stock manipulations, Eurofighter, dubious profits, dubious commissions – this is an endless list of names of the “students” and “drugs”, but decent in reaching and skillful in disposing. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Smart]] [[Abg. Grosz: Gartlehner!]] That's what's so upset people outside this house now. And it is the disappointment that there was once a claim for the renewal of the Republic and that claim was so easily abused at the expense of taxpayers, at the expense of Austrians, all the values that really make up the basis of our Republic. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I am telling you one last point – a political point, because most of the time it is a crime story that we are working on here – about social reduction, the injustice of distribution, because at that time it was said: I represent the “little man, ” the“ little woman ”! After two years, the Haider has then had to determine the following: It's a heartless government policy! He was right. That's how she was! And I'm not just telling you that, but I'm telling everyone to hear it here.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00116_d7e10840	Mr Klubobmann's head is next spoken. I also place the watch on desired 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00116_d7e10862	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen, Col. Pilz, you might almost be fascinated by your passion, which you show here as a fairy taler. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the Greens.]] They shed crocodile tears – and they are crocodile tears – about the image of politicians as you are being addressed on the subway. Unfortunately, it is true that we ourselves have always been involved in this negative image. Only: You do it in a very special way. They permanently accumulate people – almost every party – here in the house with unproven accusations, according to the motto: You throw it with dirt, it's going to be a little picky! This is your method: Change politics as a whole! This is the only thing that you, as a representative of the Greens, consider to be political content. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would like to point out that the ÖVP is only going near this Telekom scandal, as you do! We have nothing to do with that. Take note of this at last! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It's just a naughtiness: They say corruption is black and blue. – This is a cleanery, what you say here! Without any evidence, such a flat-rate suspicion, making a flat-rate conviction, that is not worthy of this House. Shame, Mister Pilz. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] And another one, ladies and gentlemen: I strongly oppose that you are denoting the successful Chancellorship of Wolfgang Schüssel morally and politically in this way, as you have just done – a little assisted by Mr Cap, but dosing, but I really point this back to the most decisive. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: He's got a trauma!]] Wolfgang Schüssel is an honorary man who was a very successful German chancellor! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But now on the matter itself. It already belongs to a large portion of unfrozenness – you really have to attest that – which the Deutsche Telekom managers have provided there: Share prices on the last day of a deadline that everyone knows, to then get to the enjoyment of a premium and to believe, you get away with it, you get through with it! That's already a portion of unfrozenness. This is clear, this is strictly punished, because at the end of the day not only the credibility of the Austrian economic location, but also the financial centre and the financial market are at stake. That must be strictly punished. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Unfortunately, there are also many accusations that occur somewhere at the interface between politics, telecoms and the economy. There are questions on: Was there any flow of money to former vice chancellor Gorbach about this Universal Service Regulation? If so, what for? There are questions: What is the equivalent of the many payments made to Reichhold, Wittauer, Meischberger, Gartlehner, Hochegger, Mensdorff-Pouilly? – These questions need to be clarified. [[Abg. Strasser!]] When buying the Bulgarian Mobile Tel with the triangle around Martin Schlaff with right things? – There have been amounts flown – you mentioned it – that are in need of information. How could such a difference occur in the purchase prices? Where did the money flow? – Of course, these things need to be clarified perfectly. Justice is already working hard on it. In contrast to Mr Kogler, who has previously done a terrible derailment towards the judiciary and the public prosecutor, I say, in contrast to you: They work on this matter with high pressure and also clarify it. And you have everything to do, we have everything to do, to support them. And I also say: There will be an urgent need for a parliamentary committee of inquiry to examine political responsibility in this case. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Cap.]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Insert!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Criminal acts cannot be prevented by law. If someone's got criminal energy, he'll live out it. But one must, of course, make strict laws to deter and, at the end of the day, to punish such perpetrators. We need to tighten them up: Lobbying ban for Members, disclosure of ancillary activities and ancillary incomes, preparation of a lobbyist register, disclosure of party donations, disclosure of advertisements and media cooperation by government agencies, disclosure of ownership of media and disclosure of public contracts to companies close to the party. All these things we will have to regulate in the next few weeks and a few months, and here in this House we will also have to decide on appropriate regulations before Christmas, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I gather, ladies and gentlemen: The Greens are here in a very special artificial excitement as a corruption hunter, throwing around with many unproven claims, but I would have a recommendation to them. They are now in Vienna in the city government. Vienna is the only federal state that is without any publicly accessible regime for party financing. Take an example, use your government and coalition participation there and change it as soon as possible. That would be an excellent task for you! [[As a result, the Commission has not yet received any comments from the interested parties.]] In summary, ladies and gentlemen: The Telekom scandal is initially a scandal in this company. But there is also a misbehavior – at least it has the strong appearance – of politicians. Unwarranted information is announced, initially by the judicial system, but very soon also by Parliament in a committee of inquiry. We need stricter regulations; I have listed them. Ladies and gentlemen, one must also be said: The law alone cannot be the measure of our action. Moral claims to politicians are much higher than by law alone! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Moser: Yes at last!]] One last, ladies and gentlemen: I ask all of you to deal fairly with the political balance sheet of the German Chancellor era by Wolfgang Schüssel. The ÖVP cannot be drawn into a scandal with which it has nothing to do – and with which the Wolfgang Schüssel, in particular, has nothing to do with! He is an honorary man for us and was a successful German chancellor of this republic.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00116_d7e11038	The next item is Mr Klubobmann Strache. Set speaking time: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00116_d7e11060	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! After the Greens have almost managed to bring today's special session to sleep, and they have managed perfectly to cover up possible SPÖ contexts completely and not to mention them at all, it is, I think, very important to treat the subject again more seriously than it has been until then. [[Abg. Oillinger: Here we need you!]] I've been talking to the citizens in recent months about a lot of other things. Every day on the streets, we are talking about how billions of Austrian taxpayers are reduced by red, black and green support in Greece. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusions of the Abg. Oils.]] billions of our Austrian taxpayers, which we will never see again, disappear in an irresponsible way and are sunk. This is going until the European Protection Mechanism is about to be expropriated, but that is what we will be talking about. [[Abg. Oils: Don't leave!]] For Austrians, Austrian domestic policy truly offers a sad picture; I am with you completely. Week by week new scandals that become reckable, week by week, the list of so-called neemers and possible drainers in the Republic is extended, and it becomes visible a picture that apparently has a years, if not decades of tradition in Austria and was apparently lived for decades. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] Mr Klubobmann Kopf, the previous highlight was, of course, also the resignation of the former Federal Chancellor and later simple MP Wolfgang Schüssel, who took place just a week ago. Of course, one can now easily argue whether this is an indirect admission to debt or not. We believe that we can read this very well, because at the same time, the revelations of the past weeks also confirm what we have actually lived in 2002 on the basis of the freedom of movement, above all, of the FPÖ's current leadership team. [[Abg. Dr Bartenstein: But go!]] You are pretending today that you can no longer remember that the freedom base in Knittelfeld has resisted the “scattering” of our party head at that time, and that precisely because of these developments, which you have felt, but could not prove, the liberal basis has rightly resisted the “scattering”. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Oils: That's the sheep!]] Apparently, you have to give a little remedial lessons in history. At the time, the FPÖ base did not rightly express any confidence to the acting persons, but failed and opposed the complete delivery of the FPÖ tip to the ÖVP – rightly. This resistance was successful in 2005 when all of these “shot” former liberals were closed at the BZÖ, in the government. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusions of the Abg. May. Donnerbauer.]] The entire former liberal government team was closed at the BZÖ there in 2005 and it became visible: If a party in this Republic stands for propriety, cleanliness and cleansing power, then it is the FPÖ under H.-C. Bitch! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Ironic cheerfulness with ÖVP, SPÖ, Greens and BZÖ.]] You have delivered the perfect evidence for this today, I am truly grateful to you for it. The fact that you have joined Mr Grasser, who went directly to Knittelfeld in 2002 – where almost the entire government team, which was then sitting at the BZÖ – has changed to the ÖVP and in 2002 has candidate for the ÖVP and subsequently was the ÖVP Finance Minister – if it had gone after the bowl, he would have become ÖVP Party Head even in 2007 – are trying to push you aside today. [[Intervocations at ÖVP and FPÖ.]] You can thank Mr Khol today for preventing this from being held in the ÖVP Federal Party Board. It is interesting how to try to shift the realities. The Austrians know this because they have followed it. I can remember how you said – the political competitors, but also not friendly and objective journalists – when we resisted the “srapture” at the time: Those who resist the “shake ” are the destructive! The others were the constructive ones that we know today, as we know in the room, that they were nehmers and excavators. So much for the truth about the right developments. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We have successfully resisted this “shake” and have taken care of a clean, consistent path. This is also the secret of the success of today's Freedom Party under a H.-C. Bitch! [[Call the ÖVP: Oh!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, that is why we can also say today that under my leadership we do not have the least to do with any painting and such developments. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Call the Greens: No! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Riepl.]] That's exactly what hurts you! And if the Greens come out here and actually don't mention any of the SPÖ's refreshments at all, then it shows that they're nothing but climbing stickers for any social-democratic cover-up strategies. The Lord Pilz has turned out here and has given some things for the best, where he has shown himself to be a red deceiver and a Red Red Red Red Defense. Sometimes I really think of Mr Pilz: If you take the word “KPdSU” into your mouth, then you will You probably know yourself very well, because you come from this corner. Perhaps there is also a need for a Stasi Investigation Committee to know who has been working for the Stasi in this Republic. [[Intrusions of the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] This too would be worth considering. And if you stand out here and not even mention your Green Langthalers, who have collected at Valora, but just forget about it, and put aside the networks that have become quite visible in the green rows, then it simply shows that you don't really want to see information in this area or are interested in it. Of course, we also have to say that there are many coincidences that have been addressed today, which we do not want to see as randomities: the Eurofighter Malversations, which stand in the room where we have provided a Eurofighter Investigation Committee, as well as, subsequently, a Banking Investigation Committee, which the two government parties then turned off when it became hot. When Mr. Schlaf was invited as a witness and should have said to what extent there are refreshments, you turned it off, as did the Eurofighter Investigation Committee. You have today addressed the BUWOG: Yes, full reconnaissance, just like the BAWAG! How can it be that BAWAG real estates are sold to Benko and, as a thank-you to the former German Chancellor Gusenbauer, is now on the Supervisory Board of Benko? – Yes, full Enlightenment! And: How can it be that a group around sleep, Taus, Cordt – red and black braids – can buy the mobile phones in Bulgaria with 800 million euros of BAWAG and at the same time is already in front of the purchase guarantee of Deutsche Telekom in the amount of 1.6 billion €? Yes, we have to talk about this and we have to explain it, as well as that the subsequent indebtedness of the SPÖ of 600 million schilling has suddenly been no longer a matter of night, and just as much as the question of how to reduce these debts. This too should be taken into view exactly! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Similarly, one should look at the origin of Mr Hochegger and the agency Hochegger, who naturally comes from the red corner and has always been active with his socialist agency partner – long before there was a so-called black-blue government and subsequently black-orange government. [[Intrusions of the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] Yes, which agency of Hochegger received a 1.8 million € order from the Ministry of Social Affairs under the Lore Hostasch in 1999? Who was that, please? What red networks did Mr Hochegger work for at the time and register these gages? All this will be clear! And of course it must also be mentioned that perhaps the former companion of the Clubobmann Bucher was also working in the Hochegger agency or later in the Valora. [[Calls of the Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek.]] [[Call at BZÖ:Now it's going to be deep!]] Perhaps these are all coincidences, but of course you have to talk openly about making these areas visible and clarifying the extent to which sustainable networking is very likely to exist in the parties. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is also necessary to review the role of Mr Hochegger in the sale of UMTS licences under the then Minister of Transport Caspar One – which of course would not be in the dream, because one would get into our comrade’s way – or take the case of the consortium I mentioned earlier, up to the “Who is who” of Mr Hochegger, the red-black political and economic elite. [[Abg. Grosz: And what about Mr. Meischberger at your 40. Birthday?- Oh, my God!]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Of course, you have to check all the details, because Mr Hochegger obviously also operated these networks under red and black. That's exactly what it's all about, and that's what we want: We want to make sure that there is no remaining information in a possible corruption jungle, Nehmer jungle, Abkassier jungle – in all areas! We liberals did it in 2005, reviewed our cash registers, showed the developments of our party and cleaned them up. We even went to court against former party leaders. So we have a clean vest. But I demand the same thing from all parties, namely finally to live this cleanliness and to really highlight all these painting developments. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Grosz: You have forgotten Mr. Scheuch!]] There is now a committee of inquiry and not again the mechanisms we know, namely, that is to say, the social democratic strategy, to prepare new elections, perhaps between March and June 2012. That means: We do not need a committee of inquiry now, give us a little time until we get into a little conflict with the coalition partner, perhaps until December to build up issues, and then perhaps in the new year there will be an investigative committee which would then be turned off again with the election until June! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] That's exactly the concept you think it is and how I think it's imaginable – and it should be exposed! So if you're interested in information, we'll take care of it now, today! You should vote in favour of the Committee of Inquiry today and go to work quickly to clarify such malts!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00116_d7e11350	Mr Klubobmann Bucher is now speaking. I'll set the clock up to 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00116_d7e11372	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! If someone has to argue and argue so nervously and get so deeply into the drawer, then he must already have a pretty bad conscience, as was the case with his colleague Strache at the moment. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Strache: What's deep?]] I am another one who lives in the future and tries to make politics for the next generations, but now I have to look back in order to make something clear – although I was not in politics at the time. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: People are not well today!]] Anyone who does not push away the past knows that the only thing you did to resist in 2002 has led you to put Mr. Schüssel on 1st from 3rd place. Placed. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That's what it was. Your merit, Mr Strache, and if you are proud of it today, it is a problem that you are carrying around with you. What I do not understand, Mr Kopf, is that you are now responsible for the opposition that there is a political and political starkness in Austria, that you are responsible for making us aware that you are responsible for bringing transparency into all the processes that are currently being colported into the media. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, no one is taking this away from you, and not at all those who are sitting in front of the screens today – head-shaking – and have to hear, Mr. Kopf, that the ÖVP has nothing to do with Telekom. Yeah, you don't think so! And if you choose such arguments, such words and justifications, then you will lose the last rest of your trust, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We should all note that there is a collective – there is no one except – shock, an erosion of confidence in politics in Austria. No matter what political color, we are all affected. No one, not even the Greens, is excluded – who also want to carry out good information. But we are all shaken by the reactions that come from the citizens who call us against the people. That is why it is actually our mission to oppose it, to work on the basis of trust and to ensure that it is kept clear and that not all politicians are thrown into a pot, because there are many, even here, ladies and gentlemen, who are doing decent work in the interest of our country. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We've reached a low point, and no one can tell me that you can't do this within your political field if you meet people. You can't make me understand that. It is quite clear that Austria is shaken and people are shaken by these incidents that have occurred there. When we read in the newspapers that Austria is one of the most corrupt countries in the world, the alarm bells have to shriek at each one of us. Everyone who has a sense of honor, ladies and gentlemen, today has to develop an interest that we take immediate action and set up a committee of inquiry today, which unfailingly clears all the errors, all the events, all the paintings that have been made by a government bank, no matter what political group, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] People don't understand any more about waiting. Yeah, what are you waiting for, red and black? What are you waiting for? Faith You really think the situation changed in half a year? – Then there is a project report, and those we invite to the investigation committee can make their statement again. We have the same situation again as today. The population expects from us – we are the legislator, we are here inside, we 183, we are the legislators of the nation – a clear signal. Yes, who in this Republic should take on this task and make this decision if not as legislative force in our country? – The President of the Federal Government cannot do it, the Chancellor of the Federal Republic cannot, we can only do so as legislators. We are therefore called upon to ensure order, to ensure transparency, and to ensure that there are clear laws that politicians are no longer allowed to be corrupted in Austria, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! [[BZÖ and Abg. Dr. Walser.]] It is, I say now, very dangerous if we do not now understand that our country is standing by a chicken. It is a dangerous time since other developments are now combined with this negative image that we all have in common. The whole development of the Greek crisis, the euro crisis, the lack of willingness at European level to recognize the dimension and make the right decisions, ladies and gentlemen, which leads to frustration in the population. And I do not want political decisions to be made on the street, but here in the House where they can be met! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, I have already addressed to you the question of why you still refuse to allow transparency as far as party funding is concerned. In recent months and years, the ÖVP has always failed that we have come to a truly decisive party funding audit system in Austria. It was always the resistance of the ÖVP. [[Abg. Head: What? Do you have fever?]] [[Abg. Neugebauer: This is a false perception!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bitch.]] Yes, of course! If you had it in your hand, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, you would even prevent the latest court, that is your strategy. Yes, we believe – and it is necessary – that we need clear laws regarding party financing and corruption here in Austria. [[Intrusions of the Abg. May. Donnerbauer.]] And if we keep in mind that all these cases – grasses, trams – lie back for months and we are waiting for justice and their reports, it is clear that we will be waiting a long time. Only: The population no longer understands this expectation. The people today do not want to hear words, but at last they want to see actions, and these actions, ladies and gentlemen, can only be justified by making clear laws that there must be no corruption in the future in Austria. [[OBJECTIVES]] And this has to be expected from the government bank and from the Members' banks. We from the BZÖ have made it clear. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the ÖVP.]] I have provided all the information from the outset. For over two weeks, the Public Prosecutor's Office has had all the documents of the BZÖ. All documents! We have responded exemplaryly, immediately and decisively. Those who have something to do with it are no longer members of the BZÖ. There are no lazy fruits in the oranges. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, take note of this! We also expect that from the other parties. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] To the ÖVP: What are you afraid of? – It is important that we are already working on making a clear lobbyist law, an anticorruption law, and today we are already deciding to set up an investigation committee. What are you afraid of? Explain this to citizens! Prove that black money has nothing to do with your party color and jump today, according to our request, over your black shadow and agree to the setting up of an investigation committee!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00116_d7e11540	Mrs. Dr. Moser is now speaking. 6 minutes desired speaking time are set. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00116_d7e11562	Madam President. Minister and Secretary of State at the Government Bank! Mrs Vice-ÖVP-Obfrau! Ladies and gentlemen here and at home! Yeah, why not? Mr Bucher is right: It is in this House's request how we can make "glass" party funds! It is in this House's motion for a resolution on how we can create transparency, Mrs Minister. We have submitted applications that present clear anticorruption packages. Today, there is the possibility of agreeing to this, taking decisions on it, putting actions into place to install a new political culture. Why not? – I ask you that! Why do we have to let ourselves – you are probably the cause, perhaps you too – of making international comments, like international press articles that legitimately appeal to us on the corruption list far behind? [[pointing towards ÖVP]] [[pointing to the FPÖ]] Why do we even have to let ourselves like that, for example, the “Central Bavarian newspaper” – certainly a newspaper from the deepest CSU neighbourhood of us – writes the following – I quote –: “It was a kind of checkbook policy operated by the former Austrian chancellor Schüssel with the right parties. () In addition, it has permanently corrupted the customs. () But what is now coming to light opens up the framework of the commonplace. Kickbacks, lubricating money, even money laundering for Russian magnates – in Europe we only knew this so far from the Mafia in Italy and the Balkans.” We can read this in our neighbouring country! Today, we can immediately take action to correct this judgment, which finally brings about a turnaround in the image of Austria and which finally ensure that reality becomes what you put into space in promises in words, in confessions, in promises. I'll start with you, Mrs. Minister. You said: We want to put on the table concrete proposals on transparency and anticorruption measures! – I say to you: There are already them, we have them and we can decide them today! Mr Cap, you said: Enlightenment immediately, support transparency! – Yes, why vote You're not supposed to set up a committee of inquiry today, are you? Why not? Tell me! Or: Today, Mr Klubobmann Kopf, you have surprisingly even made a confession to the fact that the financial centre has to regain credibility through a restless reconnaissance of the financial centre. – Yes, let’s do this, let’s also set up an investigation committee on Deutsche Telekom’s affairs! You even announced today that he should come soon. Soon – when is that? Is this again the four-year arc: Committee in spring, Committee in summer, no, committee perhaps in autumn. I say: Now we have to deal with it! Now the people who are rightly outraged need a political answer that once again has that moral that you have called yourself. You have also pointed out that we must show a new political morality. It's quite clear: Not every violation of law is always suspected, but often something is not a violation of law, which is deeply outraged by people and which is against the custom. It is about re-establishing correct practices and fairness in politics, here in the National Council and in legislation. Let's do this today! Or: The FPÖ also proposed: Enlightenment, Enlightenment! – Yes, we already have an opinion on the subject, but in principle we also have to set up where you were working. And it doesn't use anything if you show up again: We're not the FPÖ, we're not blue from earlier! Remember: Snakes are often skinned, only: [[Deconstratetive appeal to the Greens]] It's the same reptile! It's the same reptile, and the next skin may be ready for us next week. Who knows? Now, Mrs Minister, I will come back to the possibilities you have in your place alone. Our urgent request is addressed to you today! For example, you have remained guilty of the answer – give it to us afterwards – how much actually the government radio costs, how much now Adonis or Tetron will really cost us as taxpayers. Make your contribution! Or: Why do you accept that practically the one who was in the hunting company, the former president of the Industrial Union, the current head of the ÖIAG, at the same time – we have already mentioned it – apologise! Secretary-General at the ÖVP. [[Abg. Dr. Bartenstein: Secretary-General he was once!]] In the ranks is often a certain one – how to say? – order not to understand. [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: Because he is an integrity person!]] Please, if you believe in his integrity: Why, then, should he be again and again negative in the public's spotlight because he took over the chairmanship role. That's not necessary, that can lead someone else. This is to be done in foreign, international specialist or expert hands. This creates a false picture. That casts a bad light on the whole. Why Make You do? This is not necessary – except you have something to hide, which I do not accept now. But, Mrs. Minister, the Ministry of Finance, which you are now leading, has always been the money hub: That's what it was about buying, and it was about selling, and it was about procurement, and it was about supervision. Let's just go through it for a little while. Sale BUWOG: Location of your predecessor. To date, they have not contributed anything to the fact that this matter is being clarified better, that we are finally continuing in their work. Or, for procurement – I have already mentioned the government radio –: They owe us the figures today. Is that an investigation? Is that transparency, Mrs. Minister? Or, finally, when it comes to exercising supervision: Who led the financial market supervision at that time, Mrs. Minister? A friend of Grassers! Traumüller was head of financial market supervision. You said: Traded correctly in stock exchange law! And I tell you what they did not do to those responsible at the time, be it in the ÖIAG, whether it be in financial market supervision: You didn't go to the prosecutor's office! Everyone/anyone could have immediately deposited the material – to the extent that it was available – and taken steps. Then we would already have all legal, judicial results today, and in your opinion the Examining Committee would be possible today. I think he's still possible today. We are still going to discuss this today, because simply the need for information reaches to heaven. He's possible if you're hopefully coming to reason today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00116_d7e11625	Mr Delegate Dr. Herbs are now coming to the fore. I'll set the clock to 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00116_d7e11647	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! It is a very, very serious issue that we are dealing with today, but it is nevertheless a bit a reason to smile when you listen to the Bible proverbs of BZÖ chief Bucher. You, Mr President, are really making the impression that you have overdosed incense. But I'm telling you: So you will not be able to bless the BZÖ, Mr Bucher! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, what is the goal in the fight against corruption? – First of all: The economic criminals belong to transfer, belong behind the castle and Rie gel. Secondly, The political responsibility must be clarified. Who is politically responsible for falling back to number 15 in the international corruption ranking? Who is responsible for the fact that 82 percent of the population say that corruption has increased significantly in Austria? Who is responsible for this immense damage that has arisen in our country in social policy? [[Abg. Dr. Bartenstein: You yourself!]] Thirdly, We will need new and more stringent laws. A whole system of corruption has flown up: mafia-like structures in Telekom; so-called privatisations, such as the BUWOG; Procurement operations: Eurofighter, police radio. And it's a fact: The colours of government at this time are black, blue and orange. The list of government members involved is long. Once again, we have Strasser of the ÖVP, then Mr Grasser, Mr Gorbach and Mr Reichhold, all of whom are derived from the freedom of expression. That, Mr. Strache, you can't dispute. [[Abg. Strache: They were somewhere else!]] Mr Strache, you will not be able to steal, even if there were colorations, renames and so on. You yourself have shown how you are involved in Scheuch – “Part of the Game” – because you have made him the wall – and that’s the point! What did you say? These are diffamation attempts, a dirty dome campaign, Mr. Scheuch has held up a little chatter? – This is how the FPÖ deals with corruption, ladies and gentlemen? In addition to the members of the government, there are also lobbyists of corruption, which are members in the association of the suspicion of innocence. For example, Mr. Plech – a special particular of you, Mr. Strache, in the FPÖ Vienna – or also Hochegger, Meischberger – the ex-FPÖ Secretary General is also one of you, the re-checked photos are enough –, Mensdorff-Pouilly and others. [[Abg. Strache: How do you get to tell such untruth? I don't know Mr. Plech at all! What are you talking about?]] There has been systematic cooperation against the Republic of Austria, against close-to-state undertakings, a shameless exploitation, ladies and gentlemen. People have used responsibilities and positions to put money in their pockets. Who has still favored all of this and made it possible? – It was an unprecedented control failure. Mr Michaelis: 750 000 € Gage, used by Black-Blue and confirmed again. He was in the BUWOG Awarding Commission, ÖIAG Chief, Telekom Supervisory Board. Yes, what did Mr Michaelis actually control? Or: the lawyer Hlawati – blatant incompatibilities. She was the adviser to Mr Michaelis, was a Supervisory Board member at Telekom, or is it still, better said, and of course has also accepted orders. That, ladies and gentlemen, we have always criticized, highlighted and warned against it. However, this has been ignored. Who was the Federal Chancellor at this time? – That was Wolfgang Schüssel. Who was the Minister of Finance at the time? – That was Karl-Heinz Grasser. If grass is subject to the presumption of criminal innocence, from me the political presumption of innocence applies to bowls – but in hymns I cannot agree with God. [[Abg. Dr. Bartenstein: Okay, that's fair!]] Ladies and gentlemen, the judicial system is now working on high speeds. Finally without Glacé gloves is packed: There are house searches, interrogations and so on, and also against celebrities, and that is good. I think it's a few months too early for a committee of inquiry. [[Call the FPÖ:Go, go!]] [[Abg. Strache: Now the cover is coming!]] - No! We do not want to take the files away now, not cancel the dates of the accused and witnesses. [[Abg. Strache: As long as that fits into the socialist election strategy, the cover will come!]] There are, ladies and gentlemen, also the appeal of the corruption attorney Martin Ulrich, who says that this would really make coordination of the investigation more difficult at the moment. I understand this argument, which is coherent and meaningful. However: There will be an investigation committee, I have never left a doubt about that! What is immediately necessary are provisions against corruption. If I read through the insolent interviews of Mr. Graf Mensdorff-Pouilly, I have to say: You really have to put this man's hand! This is an event, because the population must be protected from these criminal acts and the economic crimes must also be fought accordingly. But what I don't understand at all is that social partners should be included in this law. What do the pillars of the Austrian social society – the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Workers – actually have to do with corrupt elements? I would really call on the Minister of Justice to consider this again. It cannot be said that institutions that have been providing stability and social compensation in Austria for decades are treated in the same way as economic criminals. That can't be, it also weakens the institutions! Ladies and gentlemen, when we look back at this era, we see: It is a time of corruption, of economic crime and of control failure. It has been caused by immense damage to the Austrian population and taxpayers. The reputation of politics has reached a low point, and the international reputation of Austria is impaired. We have a great task ahead of us – as justice and as a parliament – to restore the trust of the population. But it is difficult, ladies and gentlemen, for so long, as long as people like Mr. Scheuch are still in high offices and as long as people like you, Mr. Strache, are holding their protective hand over such people. That's the point! It will be very, very difficult to regain the trust of the population.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00116_d7e11780	Mr Bartenstein is now speaking. 6 minutes are also desired. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00116_d7e11801	Madam President. Members of the Federal Government! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Some in the last few minutes was already a piece of past, not handling, but displacement. Mr Strache, if you are talking about the “screw” of the FPÖ in 2002 – Knittelfeld – I can remind you that it was then your Obmann Herbert Haupt, who joined us in a new federal government after a beat and lost election. BZÖ/Gorbach – that came after that! [[Abg. Strache: This was a process until 2005!]] I can remind colleagues Bucher that the BZÖ, its party funding, its former supervisor and at least in the room were a secretary topics of the last days. – Not a word from all of that in your speech, Mr colleague, but massive debt allocations towards ÖVP. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, this is not the case, but it has begun with Mr Pilz. It was the alleged general billing with black and blue, at least the attempt of that. It was the perverting of the presumption of innocence to the presumption of guilt. But that is always the case with you, we know that: many moments of suspicion, statements that usually dissolve into air. You notice the intention and you're right. I think I'm venerationful Ladies and gentlemen, the situation is a bit too serious to move forward with ‘third-party reductions’. Karlheinz Kopf, you have put this very moving to the point: No smoke without fire. Well, there's something. This Telekom affair is primarily an economic scandal, but of course there is much to be checked politically. This company does not only belong to the state, but at least to 28 percent of the state, and if everything – at least the last phase – may have begun a course manipulation of a group of managers that has been discovered by this course manipulation – which has not been detected for a long time, now clearly comprehensible – has tried to give premiums of €9 million, then that is the one side. This is likely to be related to the company. The right measures have been taken. That the ex-Chairman, who may even be quite centrally responsible, has tried to escape into a leniency arrangement and, to put it to the heart! – To get the head out of the loop, to tell the prosecutors everything and everyone, is the other side. That can be true, but that doesn't have to be true. If it is politically relevant, it will be to be examined. In any case, it is very, very serious, and the damage is great. I also very much advocate to investigate all this – as soon as possible! That should be weeks from my point of view, not months. From my point of view, bearing in mind the Committee of Inquiry, for example, which we both have taken, it was not a bad start to find a five-party agreement, especially on the subject of investigation. I am not in a position today to agree to the three committee of inquiry, because the subject matter is, in part, really badly formulated formulated. Let us try to make a common request here, a common subject of investigation, and then really, as Karlheinz Kopf has said, to establish this Committee of Inquiry urgently and soon. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, we are not only going to take the small and medium-sized fish – this is about €30 000, to see €72 000, to €264,000, but also to ask: How was it then when a Bulgarian Telekom company was bought by a MS foundation for € 520 million and after three years it was worth €1.6 billion, so a good billion more? After all, this has already been suspected of being a corruption index by Mr Ametsreiter, the current Deutsche Telekom Board. I think you should deal with all the things that cause concern. One Last, Dear Dear Ladies and gentlemen: Really failed is the attempt of the Greens to settle here with the era bowl. A quote from the “Frankfurter Allgemeine” from the last days: The farewell was, of course, “no admission of guilt”; this was also in your direction, Mr. Strache. Shadow on the era bowl: So if a former minister, still from another party, and whose possible guilt should cast a shadow on the era bowl, what would then be with three finally condemned former ministers of a Bruno Kreisky? – I don’t call it a function or a name, but at least it doesn’t scratch Kreisky and his era with God that all of this happened at the time; we know what it is all about. It was seven years of reform, please, Mr Pilz. There were seven years, and not six years; so much reckoning shall be permitted. A “reform push that can be seen ” wrote the “FAZ. ” [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz.]] The growth was peak at that time, the budget deficit went down, the tax rate went down. We achieved full employment in 2008 – then already in the coalition government with Gusenbauer. With regard to the pension reform, at least the attempt to bring up the age of entry has been made. Think of employee care for everyone! – a groundbreaking law, adopted with the social partners. So there is no point in saying that the social partners were pushed back at the time – I am and was a contemporary witness – but a great reform for Austria. Research and development at last at European level, at the top of the line, towards 3 per cent. The privatizations were successful, and last but not least, because it was perhaps the most important concern of the exodus German Chancellor, who has not been in the House for the first time for about 25 years: For years and decades, the work was the work of the work, but under his aegide the Washington Agreement was successful. Washington agreements – now we have celebrated ten years of existence. Madam President, you were there. Stuart Eizenstat said: No other country in the world has done so much to reconcile with its own damn critical and culpable past in recent years as Austria. And that too was the era bowl, and that will stay no matter what it has on it with the 264,000 € Hubert Gorbach.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00116_d7e11859	Next, Mr Kickl. I'll set the clock up to 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00116_d7e11880	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Although Mr Bartenstein is not particularly pleased to hear it, it is what the people expect from a government: that work is also being done in areas where it is clean and transparent, and there is no need to do the mastery achievements where, so to speak, things are going to get a bad situation that nobody can understand. So much for the era bowl, which you have not allowed to address to the House, ladies and gentlemen, the farewell words themselves from this speaker's desk. But I would actually like to say something to Mrs Klubobfrau Glavischnig. I want to start by giving her a good tip. Today, with the exception of the word on the Rules of Procedure, it has not shown itself particularly committed to the green fight against corruption – or in the alleged fight against corruption – and there is also a certain problem: I would simply advise you, Mrs Glavischnig, to think again with your own head in these matters in the future, and not to delegate this work to the inappropriate place of the brain-winds of Mr Pilz in this case particularly scratching. That's pretty much the most inappropriate place to live up to this claim that it is about combating corruption, about cleanliness and transparency, ladies and gentlemen. [[President Neugebauer shall take over the chairmanship.]] One thing is clear: If Peter Pilz, at any level – I could now take Karl Ollinger in another area – if these gentlemen ride out to do nothing but lead an ideologically motivated fight against the FPÖ, then the truth is to them, then the fact situation is just as much as the Americans do democracy and human rights when they are back after a field of oil in this dear world. That's how it looks, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Quite honestly: I do not know too many politicians who, like Peter Pilz, are producing and, so to speak, taking this Nimbus of the deck from the service for themselves, who is already harassed by the people on the tram, because they all run into the doors of him. [[Cheerfulness at FPÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, in this context I think only of one person who can take it up with him, that is Hans-Peter Martin. Hans-Peter Martin is a classic example – I don't want to put that to you, but one shows us this example – that not always is what is in front of us. At Hans-Peter Martin it was painting of a very special kind. Now we could ask colleagues from the SPÖ which stable he comes from, then we will eventually end up at the big bang. This is not a political argument, then we all hang together again. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Korun.]] At Peter Pilz it is simply this fundamentalist “Ajatollahtum”, which he operates in whatever context – and there the facts are meated for him. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That is why, ladies and gentlemen, if you want to make things fair, I say once again that the educational gaps in this area are to be filled. You have to try to get the greens to really see things. If Mrs Glawischnig had not foolishly delegated this thought work to the most inadequate one that can be entrusted with this matter, then she would know two things very well: [[New call for tender May. Korun]] On the one hand, she knew that the attempt to get the FPÖ into these painting under HC strata is roughly as credible as the Greens to embrace the responsibility for Fukushima. [[Cheerfulness and applause at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz.]] You would know that if you hadn't delegated it and not even Peter Pilz would have gone on glue, Mrs Glawischnig. And you would, if you didn't stupidly delegate that and think Secondly, your chevideologist knows that the focus you have placed on the fight against corruption, if he's supposed to earn that name, is much too smaller. [[Abg. The scribe! The scribe!]] For if you want to see where corruption takes place everywhere in this country, there is a rich field of activity, and you have picked out such a small area, ladies and gentlemen. – These are the educational deficits. I explain it to you once again, because, I think, the question what happened in Knittelfeld... – Yes, you should listen very well, it could also have it from you, that is right. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz.]] So from Mr Pilz or perhaps from you, Mr Brosz, I suspect that this palawatsch is coming. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] But what happened in Knittelfeld, ladies and gentlemen, what was that? - That was an emergency act! That was a revolt that you of the SPÖ, which you of the ÖVP, which you have thought of from the Greens with all the ugly vocabulary, where you have said: [[Abg. Oillinger: Where were you?]] That's a coup! These are the rebels! [[Abg. Oillinger: Where were you? Did you just write his speech to the Haider?]] They are not accountable, there it goes down and above – for God's sake! These people have made you all live up as the constructive ones. – I would consider whether you have understood to this day, ladies and gentlemen, in particular you, from the Greens, what form of constructiveism you have praised. You have praised and articulated the constructiveism that has expressed itself in painters' paintings, with your Sanctuary, including that of the Greens, ladies and gentlemen – and you are not willing to rethink. That is a very important point. That was the first yearning against a “discipline” of content – a keyword of Neoliberalism in a completely false intention – but also human – yes, correct – against the corruptibility of power. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is obviously a phenomenon with which these people have to do with which they are not finished. And now we can generally criticize and regret this, but one is clear, ladies and gentlemen: One has a certain starting advantage if one already has a cleaning process in one's own party. This is quite different from talking about whether someone may have been excluded from sending him a little letter. – If this is the cleaning process of the BZÖ, then at the same time you will no longer find the hundreds of thousands that you have collected somewhere, then please nice. There's a qualitative difference. [[Abg. Petzner: When do you rule out the sheep? When is the shoal excluded?]] And when the clean-up process of the SPÖ and the ÖVP you've been talking about for over two hours in here today looks like you're saying: We all have to think about it, but please don't do it! That is, if we keep talking and if nothing is done, then you can get together right away, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] So I would like to agree with you here today on the field of self- Use and on your credibility. And another thing addressed to the address of the Greens: It's interesting, and I'm almost sorry to Mr. Kogler if he has to make himself up here and argue all of this, and at the same time Mrs. Glavischnig is jealous of the colleague Vassilakou – but not that she had turned off the red self-service shop in Vienna, but that she has become a partner of the red self-service shop in Vienna. [[Cheerfulness at the FPÖ.]] This is the great achievement of the green government participation in Vienna! There is no “lulu”, because one is now in the government, and that is: with the feed trough, partner in the SPÖ self-service shop. You would have had enough opportunity to turn things around in all these negotiations, to provide reasonable party funding, transparency, all this! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Korun]] What did you do? Look at Neditional They're going over and they're saying, She's done what I'd like to achieve. – This is the sukkus of your dealings with the SPÖ power in Vienna, ladies and gentlemen and Mrs Glawischnig! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And they, the Greens, do not frighten away from it – and this is already a very perfect point – and then also for the Malversations of SPÖ – if the red town hall majority to finance their election campaign the urban companies, whether this is the Vienna energy or the Vienna lines, systematically misuses and plunders, just as Faymann plunders the Ministry of Infrastructure for his own PR campaign; Hundreds of millions have gone in there, too, from the magistrates – and to say goodbye to their variant of wealth tax, which then means that the tram becomes more expensive, which consists of oil, gas and everything that becomes more expensive, and pay that to the little people. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is anti-corruption brand Green and brand SPÖ! And now I'm going to tell you something about anti-corruption, and there's what affects people, especially now, in these days: Yes Believe You're talking about ÖVP, SPÖ and the Greens, you can make yourself here and talk crediblely about anti-corruption, believably talking about pushing back lobbyism, if you're looting your own population on the other hand, so you can support corrupt states? – After all, corruption has been an essential factor in the fact that countries like Greece are in such a situation from which we now have to take it out. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is not a fight against corruption, it is the promotion of corruption! There is another way that we have set out for you. And do you think that the fight against corruption is if you unobtrusively ask a European Union to put in more net contributions every year, where you know that the fraud authority that the European Union has set up is only a fig leaf so that it can be done as if, and that there are billions of people per year? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Großruck]] And when we're there: Do you believe that the fight against corruption is, ladies and gentlemen, if you bring Bulgaria and Romania, where corruption is flourishing, into the Schengen area and thus endanger our security? All of this is promoting corruption, ladies and gentlemen, and as a liberal, we will not stop holding this mirror to you, but we will show you on this issue. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00116_d7e12080	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Stadler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00116_d7e12101	Mr President. High house! I don't come out of amazement who wants to have been in Knittelfeld. I didn't see Herbert Kicklhab there. Well, he's been one of those who must have been far behind somewhere. So, anyway, I did... [[Abg. Kickl: You'll cancel that out there!]] Heinz-Christian Strachemust be remembered for years that he signed there. I even had to give Nina Horaczek the signature list where your signature was on it. For years he disputed this and said: That was just the Stadler! That's what the evil Stadler did, the revolution in Austria. Just, ladies and gentlemen, it's not really good when you do something like that once and for all, that's not quite credible. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the FPÖ]] Unlike you, my dear Heinz-Christian, I have never tried a state secretary post like you, and I have always called Blender by name – now I do not even call your most prominent place. [[Abg. Ing. Höbart: That was the joke of the day!]] I also, Mrs Bundesminister, did not want to deal with you today, because you could basically have leaned back today and said: These were my predecessors, the Ministry of the Interior of Strasser, the Ministry of Finance of Grasser! – and they have a little more than that their names rub themselves together. But that then the Federal Minister is going here, just like the political amnesty of Mr Strache, which I have just described, and then says that the ÖVP has nothing to do with it and Karl-Heinz Grasser would never have become almost ÖVP-Obmann? – The noble Mr. Khol from Tyrol, Khol from Elbsdorf, says he would almost have been the head of the ÖVP party. He prevented this – a heroic act, you have to say today. You will be glad that Khol of Elbsdorf has prevented this. Of course, Straster has never been to the ÖVP. [[Abg. Grosz: This is a left!]] – He knows nothing but the ÖVP. He didn't know anything at all, but he was never there. Also Josef Taus: completely unknown! He has been removed from the list of party leaders from the Austrian People's Party! Leo Wallner, Mock Secretary: Sure, Mock was an old BZÖler, we know that, huh? – That's what it's likely to be like. Mensdorff-Pouilly, the weapons grave, ladies and gentlemen: He only shoots with blue-orange flints, otherwise he has nothing at all to do with the ÖVP! And his wife was forced upon him, as was the custom in the nobility, that has nothing to do with the ÖVP. Hochegger, Wirtschaftsbundler: The Economic Federation is not at all a precursor organisation of the ÖVP, but it belongs everywhere, only not to the ÖVP. Mr Martinz is for every other party in the state government in Carinthia, but not for the ÖVP. – So much for the sense of reality of the Federal Minister Fekter. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] Please? – An old friend of your former party president Josef Pröll, a very good friend. [[Abg. Hörl: What about Scheuch?]] He has been a permanent guest to him, has also been on the go with the flint, they have organized joint hunts, ladies and gentlemen! So, and now Wolfgang Schüssel comes: There is a constant effort by the honorary man, not true, Mr. Kopf, the honorary man. – You should be silent about gentlemen of honor at the moment, really silent! Such a collection of mistakes of honor, as in the ÖVP currently running around men – I have just brought a list; I am sure it could be continued for half an hour – as one should keep silent about honorary men. [[Abg. Head: Now you can stop!]] For what devil did the honourable Member ride out of service when he called Mr Ehrenmann Karl-Heinz Grasser on the eve of his request and wished him good luck? – I don’t know how much accused, suspect of the honorary Wolfgang Schüssel on the eve of the respective consent and wish them good luck. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grosz.]] I don't know if Bruno Kreisky has done something like this to his former ministers, as one has just pointed out to you through my colleague Bartenstein, I only know one thing, ladies and gentlemen: You should be silent at the moment, ladies and gentlemen of the Austrian People's Party, because the damage that Mr Strasser has done on his own would stimulate humility, not in London, where he tried to get lubrication money, no, in the Ministry of the Interior as your predecessor, Mrs Bundesminister. [[OBJECTIVES]] But Maria Fekter says that has nothing to do with the ÖVP. Strasser never worked in the Ministry of the Interior for the ÖVP. Ladies and gentlemen! I tell you, your humour will soon pass you because whether you agree to the investigation committee today or not, your humor will hurt you because people won't let you through it. Mr Kopf says out here that it is not only a question of investigating payments that are punishable, but it is all in need of information, even if it is not punishable. – What do you think we have done all the time? It is not only about the area of criminality or non-punity, it is about the fact that there is still an area between criminal and decent, which is indecent but not yet punishable, and you have so far prevented this from being clarified. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amon.]] – But of course! Ladies and gentlemen! I still have to remind colleagues today that he has given us the promise that the investigation committees will become a minority right, but you were there when the blacks demanded that the Banking Investigation Committee turn off – I correct – was strangled – at the moment we wanted to investigate MobileTel Bulgaria. Right now he's been strangled! And this isn't about a hunting trip with a gun Count and some Nebbiche, but it's about a billion – Mr Bartenstein said it right: about a billion difference. [[Abg. Head: What did you do with the 600 of Deutsche Telekom?]] Where did this billion come from? Why is Leo Wallner flying with Helmut Elsner, with Mr Cordt, with bowl, with Taus, why are they all flying to Bulgaria to deliver a piano there? [[Mr Graf and Mr Strache.]] It almost reminded me of Loriot: A piano, a piano, we thank you, granny! The piano wasn't the theme! Down there, ladies and gentlemen, it was really about huge shops, and it would be very interesting how much landed there and how much. These are not any Nebbichs, nor is it about what the Lord Count is doing down there with his hunting chickens. This is one of the biggest shops, and you should start with the big chunks. And in the case of the big chunks, I guarantee you – because you're handling BAWAG – you're both stuck inside, and that's why you've turned it off. That is why I do not believe in your willingness to explain what is going on in the committee of inquiry. I just don't believe it and the Austrian people don't believe it either, because you've seen too often and too often how the Reds and the Blacks deal with an investigation committee when it comes to actual information. [[OBJECTIVES]] ==References== You dropped your pants on July 2, 2007, and you strangled the committee. MobileTel Bulgaria must not be clarified. Now, when my colleague's head comes out of here and says, Yeah, yeah, we're going to explain, it's just not supposed to be Christmas yet! All right, but... [[Abg. Dr. Graf: It was about party funding!]] What Christmas he didn't say! 2020? – [[Intrusion of the Abg. Head.]] Well, Christmas is something else! Yes, yes, the Christian child will unfortunately not bring us any information about MobilTel Bulgaria, but the Austrian People's Party as well as the Red have reason enough to cover and strangle MobileTel Bulgaria. We got to know this in the investigation committee. And as long as you, Mr Cap, do not keep your promise to make a minority right out of the committee of inquiry, all of this is not credible. In promoting the banks, this was a commitment, a political commitment – still not kept. Why? - Black debt, you say under four eyes, the ÖVP doesn't want. It's true that you can't both need it. You can't need any clarification when it comes to billions of transactions that have been handled with Mr Sleep. Again: It is not about any secretary and any ridiculous magnitude, here it is about 1 billion €, which has been distributed between parties. And it is about the high level of criminal energy that has led to the political area being quiet. Explain to me why the political area has strangled this reconnaissance! Explain You can tell the Austrian public why you have strangled this investigation committee on this one point! Ladies and gentlemen, if you want to stand in front of the voters – and this will not be spared for you here, especially for the Social Democrats, because I do not think that this is really serious, what has been said here today – with what you supposedly want to clarify, then you will have to do more than say today: Yes, it has not yet grown herbs – gel, Mr. Collaborator Herbs – but we are going to, perhaps sometime. – It's not going through anymore, the truth is going through! I would like to break a lance for Mrs Bandion-Ortner. It has enforced the procedural regulations, and the procedures, Mr Pilz, are now responsible for information, not red and black. It is the testimony, and they are not lying, because I look at it as a witness, Mr Bartenstein, lies to the prosecutor and puts his own criminal benefits at risk. It won't be a piece of paper that would be done, ladies and gentlemen. Therefore, the proficiency regulation is the starting point. This instrumentation regulation will, also against the resistance of the ÖVP and if your willingness is not present, also against your resistance, cause the things to be clarified. And then they'll pass by you. However, the unfortunate thing about this is that it goes beyond Parliament. Parliament does not then have to say: We've cleared up. We must imagine, even Mr Leitl, an economic partner, says that Parliament should become more self-confidence, and we should make it easier to find out. But Mrs Fekter will say: The Economic Federation has nothing to do with the ÖVP. Mr Leitl of the Economic Federation even says: Not everything that is already pending with the prosecutor can therefore be withdrawn from a committee of inquiry. He's for the parallel reconnaissance. Take your nose and agree today!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00116_d7e12297	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Steinhauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00116_d7e12319	Ladies and gentlemen! If you listen to the FPÖ, you have the impression that the innocence has become meat here. But this is easy to disprove. Myth number one – we've heard it many times today –: Knittelfeld was an uprising against the shattering, was a revolt against those members of the FPÖ who served on the feeding trough of power. The fact is something else. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Were you there?]] – Knittelfeld was in autumn 2002. Gorbach became Minister of Infrastructure at the beginning of 2003. The truth is, the bending fields have only washed persons like Gorbach into their offices and bear political responsibility for them. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Call the FPÖ: Such an unfavorable! Bullshit!]] – That’s fact! [[Abg. Listen: You have no idea at all!]] Myth Number Two: The FPÖ old has nothing to do with the Strache FPÖ. The fact is: Five current heads of state were already under Black and Blue heads of state, Mr. Strache was in the Federal Board. The truth is, the FPÖ is not a re-foundation, but there is a large number of people continuity in their functional status. Point number three: Those who have made their hands dirty are still among you. I'm talking about, among other things, your FPK-Obmann Uwe Scheuch. And now I don't mean that he was just recently sentenced for dealing with citizenship. No, Uwe Scheuch was Secretary General of the BZÖ when the Ominous Telekom billions most likely financed a BZÖ election campaign. They only believe if you change color three times, then all traces are blurred. That's not the way it is. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: You were with the Socialists once, weren't you?]] The fact is, people like Scheuch carry the full political responsibility and have found shelter in you. It shows a picture: Whether in Carinthia or in the black and blue era in the League, where the Blues sit in the government, the money is piled into the party funds and pockets. Ladies and gentlemen, the FPÖ has published a comic book in the last election. I do not know if you remember, then “Superman” served as a template for the “HC man”. I recommend another comic, namely the "Panzercracker". In the leading role of Scheuch and Strache, that is more similar to what you are planning in the government. [[Abg. Strache: There are already the heads and the Vassilakou!]] Ladies and gentlemen, on a first point we need an investigation committee, now and not at some point. That's the appeal to the SPÖ. The crucial question is: Do you make blue and black the predator ladders or are you standing on the sides of the investigation? – I mean, you should be on the side of the Enlightenment. In addition to illuminating the black and blue corruption networks, it is also about something else: We need a restart in this republic. We need to create framework conditions that ensure that plunders are no longer possible as under black and blue. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] What can be the content of such an action of clean hands, at the top of which we like to stand? – First, a transparent party donation law. We now have a party donation law, in which, although it is necessary to declare donations to the President of the Court of Auditors, it must not provide information about it, but must hide the information in the drawer. If Klubobmann's head goes out and says we're planning it and then we're offering it, you have to say one thing: In March we were told by the government parties that in May there is the first draft on a transparent party donation law. In May it was called suddenly, in summer there is the first design. In summer it was called, in autumn there is the first draft for a transparent party donation law. We now have autumn start, the transparent party donation law is still missing. Second point: Transparency rules for Members. If a FPÖ member gets €400 000, I'd like to know what for. This must also have legislative consequences. I want all functions, ancillary activities and income to be declared and the sources to be mentioned! I don't want Members standing next to the voters in the soldier of another lobby! If they do, I want that to be transparent. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] A similar special arrangement exists for members of the government. If these extraordinary capital increases have been made, they must report this to the President of the Court of Auditors. He writes a report to the President of the National Council, and what does the President of the National Council need to do? – It must hide this report in a drawer, because it must not be published. This should be changed, these legal provisions serve exclusively to conceal! Third point: We need strict anti-corruption rules. I am quite optimistic that there is something going on and that this corruption privilege that Members have given to us here in Parliament can be eliminated. There is a consensus between SPÖ, ÖVP, Greens and BZÖ that the provisions on corruption should be strengthened. But who's not there? – Again the FPÖ. Do you know what your representatives say in the negotiations there? – A behavior like that of Straster, yes, we don’t like that, but criminal law doesn’t have to be avoided. This is your position, you have to say that here. [[Abg. That's crazy! It's way too little!]] Ladies and gentlemen, we need action, there is a massive danger that mistrust in politics threatens our democracy. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00116_d7e12455	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Lap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00116_d7e12476	Mr President. Appreciate members on the government bank! High house! From the BUWOG via Hypo Alpe-Adria to Telekom, the same persons who have committed serious mistakes and injustices due to stock manipulations, hunting invitations, consulting and other contracts appear. [[Call at the FPÖ:BAWAG means that!]] We stand in front of a corruption carousel, where the same persons with the same immoderate claims to the property of the Austrians have been lost at breathtaking speed. This carousel of errors is now stopped, is stopped and has to be repaired as quickly as possible. It unites us here in this hall that we want to work together on it. The first steps are taken, and those responsible must be accountable to the judiciary. Parliamentary work will be carried out. More concrete steps can already be taken: the creation of anti-corruption agencies in companies, the precise view of excessive disbursements of management bonuses – and it should also be considered that management malus is paid out when companies are driven into ruins – the four-eye principle of procurement and expansion of the audit competences of the Court of Auditors. [[Abg. Grosz: The corruption carousel is being reintroduced!]] Advisory agreements are to be examined by the Court of Auditors and submitted to Parliament. The Court of Auditors should also be able to examine companies that belong partly to the State. Thousands of Telekom workers are just tirelessly fighting the damage to their company, accompanied by the concern about the economic future of their company and accompanied by the concern for their jobs. In recent years, they have refrained from wage increases and have received employee shares for them. These shares were not involved in price manipulations, Deutsche Telekom's employees now have to deal with raised customers and fight every day for the company's image to come back in quiet waters half way. The Telekom staff, Deutsche Telekom customers and Austrians rightly expect concrete measures and changes from us in order to stop immoderate people in our state. That is why we need to double and triple our efforts to set up anti-corruption agencies in companies, to expand the Court of Auditors' competence and to lay down these provisions by law. This is the task we have to fulfill.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00116_d7e12523	It is now coming to the attention of the honourable Member. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00116_d7e12544	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! If one follows the discussions, one gets the impression that we would have needed a request to set up an investigation committee today, who worked as and where in which color and function for FPÖ or BZÖ, because I believe that a fundamental problem is that you have not yet made a family arrangement to know what you really were doing in the past. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The Telekom affair is an incident of a company that is completely unexplained. State enterprises must not be self-service shops! In this case, complete information is necessary. As an example, I would like to mention the police radio on the subject of Tetron, where the competent minister Mikl- Leitner immediately turned on the President of the Court of Auditors to conduct a special audit at the Ministry of the Interior. – That’s how it belongs, so it’s up-to-date! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grosz.]] The debt allocations are often addressed to the wrong address. Trying to pull the era bowl into the dirt around these incidents is probably a very transparent game. The major challenge is to work so differentiatedly that one can still distinguish between debt and responsibility. Therefore, one should also be guided by their policy in the assessment of politicians, and there was the era bowl for Austria as an example. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Many reforms have been implemented: Pension security reform, the introduction of child money, the reduction of the tax rate – and thus more net income for all workers – as well as the police reform, the internationalisationof fensive and thus the security of our jobs also in the crisis. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Grosz.]] Rather, the former chancellor Schüssel represents a political type that many people would like today. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] He's a maker, no one who first has to wet his finger and keep his hands in the wind to have a conviction; a politician with corners and edges. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] With all these incidents, the word “indebtedness ” becomes one of the most popular of our time, but we can note that it still applies in court. However, with this dirty dome campaign, as it is partly led, politicians in the future are in principle subject to the presumption of guilt. We must not allow this to happen, because it cannot be possible to make mistakes at the manager's level in close-to-state businesses, which is ultimately thrown on the head of politics and thus all politicians in Austria are being eroded. Instead, political responsibility is how the parties finally deal with individual misbehaviour. I would just like to mention a former minister of the ÖVP who is no longer a member of our party. [[Abg. Grosz: Do we hear the name too?]] But in order to restore the reputation of politics, we should turn on the swivel screws we have available in the system and which were perhaps not quite attracted, which is why such a thing was also allowed. Minister of Justice Karl has done a great deal of work with a comprehensive package of transparency and anti-corruption, which is now being done in Parliamentary work. We have the amendment of the immunity rules for Members, there is a request that we can decide by November/December. We have a government paper on the Media Transparency Act, which is already being discussed by the media speakers of the individual political groups. In this context too, a solution is possible before Christmas. We have the lobbyist law, the review is completed, a government template is in preparation. We can also do that before the Christian child comes. And then the party financing, we have to mention two parts: on the one hand, full transparency in the donations and on the other hand the participations of the parties. It should be checked exactly how the contract is awarded. We have two levels which are one level of law, which is being worked quickly and clarified in full, which is the second level, to draw up laws here in Parliament, so that such a thing is no longer possible. We can start our work, because we don't need a U-committee to improve the laws. There's something in the pipeline, and we can work on it. Let us get to work and work together with Minister of Justice Karl on improving the legislation in Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00116_d7e12627	Next speaker: Mr Vilimsky, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00116_d7e12648	Mr President. Mrs Financier! Minister for Economic Affairs! Let me begin with a very urgent request from the Minister for Finance Fekter: Europe as a whole is in a very, very difficult situation. The euro and our currency and prosperity are really on the test. The euro threatens to fall apart, one believes the reports on international parquets. My request to you, Mrs Finanzminister, is not to make again blind Austrian tax billions available to banks that have speculated but to keep this money available for Austria and its taxpayers and its people. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Now on the real issue today, on corruption, on the subject of BUWOG, on the topic of Eurofighter, whatever. One thing I would like to give to the founder of today's question, Dr Pilz: I would have hoped, Dr. Pilz, They telephone and just leave the hall that after two or three decades of activity in Parliament you would have been a bit enraged by Pallas Athens, by the basic idea of democracy, even a little bit blessed with wisdom. [[Abg. Dr. Pilz turns to the speaker]] The fact is, Dr. Pilz, your heart is poisoned, and you are trying by throwing dirt around you to change cheap party-political change for the greens who do not get rid of their completely missing policy. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I'll tell you one thing: Throw dirt wherever you want – that's what you do with your conscience and your party – but you won't succeed in adapting this Freedom Party to something just on the edge. I was witnesses in the years 2004 and 2005, in which we tried internally to clarify what was then the subject with a correspondence, with documented discussions in the bodies. We got the right result. This party has the self-cleaning process behind it, not yet, Dr. Pilz. You're about to retire, I suppose, because that's your last period, as you've announced. You are in the old polishing system, I think you will receive 6 000 € or 7 000 € in pension. [[Abg. Street: In the municipal building where someone is taken away a social apartment!]] You will be able to enjoy this €7 000, because you also have a municipal apartment – nobody else in Vienna needs a municipal apartment, because the 7 000-€-pensionaries of the Greens have to sit inside. Stop with these blasphemies, because with that you also harm politics in total if you construct such an abstract amalgam of accusations! Mr Klubobmann Cap, who is there in an important background discussion with Mr Stumpenbecher, has also been given something along the way: Mr Cap, it's easy to get the black and blue ghost out of the socialist moth box and live with it for years; that's what you can do, even if it's not true, just: Watch out! If you yourself have three, probably four ministers, active ministers in your own ranks, against which the prosecutor determines, you should act here with a lot of caution. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There are investigations against Federal Chancellor Faymann. There are investigations against State Secretary Ostermayer on the part of the Public Prosecutor's Office. Against Minister of Education Schmied... [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Lap.]] What do you say, no? – Of course there are these investigations! Against Minister of Education Schmied, there are relevant investigations due to her activities in municipal credit and my information, according to the hearing also against Minister of Health Stöger. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] You have to be very careful to adapt others, if you sit in the scandal sum up here, if you have put everything in the sand in your own story – from BAWAG to “consum” – and if you have much more to do in the whole of the Hochegger story than it seems to be outside! Here, until recently, Mr. State Secretary, he was an arbitrator. I take away the “profile” – and I have to say, the “profile” is right with what it writes: The “profile” reports that the father of Mr. Andreas Schieder, Peter Schieder, but also the current senior speaker of you, Mr. Blecha, both received generous grants from Mr. Hochegger, for EU advice on the accession of Bulgaria. [[Abg. Strache: He appears everywhere, Mr. Blecha, from Proksch to...!]] [[Further calls.]] That was not the first case, however, if I can remind you. Your former chairman, Vranitzky, has also received a million from the BAWAG banker Flöttl for holding a few EU support calls. That's where you take money, where party funding was in the room at the time, and still stands in the room today. So stop adapting others where nothing is fit, but also ensure cleanliness in your own stable! Two more examples: Mr. Gartlehner – I don't see him in the hall now; in himself he is a nice person, with whom I am in the Austrian-Ukrainian friendship society – was also Nehmer von Herr Hochegger. The Consent Protocol reports that it has received €3 000 per month for a period of one year. On the subject of civil service law, he advises there, on broadband development and whatever. Come out, and explain all this! To this day, this is all in the open field. Hochegger, Caspar One, sleeping, casting builder, Lore Hostasch, who has cooperated with Hochegger and awarded him a full order: That's all you are! That's not us, we made it clear five years ago. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] We haven't been trapped in any scandal for five years! There are others who are now going out here, throwing nebula grenades, trying to give the impression that it is a black and blue story. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] Don't do that! This FPÖ has been taking a path of honesty and propriety for five years. It will continue, and in the elections you will receive the result for your nebulous actions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00116_d7e12761	Next speaker: Mr Grosz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00116_d7e12783	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Do you know what a citizen told me a week ago in Graz city centre? – I quote: “When I hit the newspaper in the early morning, I get the spit! ” [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, do you know what people are going to think today when they are following this plenary debate of the National Council? – That apparently red, black and blue – that is to say, I am referring to these speeches – are based on the Floriani principle of corrupt policy: Discover, yeah! Your speeches by Red, Black and Blue were very striking, you have accused each other of your own scandals. But you have not explained the willingness to show also humility, to scatter ashes on your head and to say: But with me, we're doing ships first! – This connects you, ladies and gentlemen of red, black and blue! And today, Seppi Bucher, the BZÖ, also combines the will of Enlightenment, and – I don't like to say so – the Greens, across all party borders. For in which republic do we live, ladies and gentlemen, for 40 years? And what chance is there for us from today's discussion and the scandals of the last weeks? – We live in a policy in which Noricum, “Lucona”, Blecha, Gratz, Androsch, “Consum”, BAWAG, Euroteam, Chamber of Workers scandal, DDSG, National Bank, AKH, murder of Ambassador Amry, Praschak suicide – driven by SPÖ Minister Scholten – Lütgendorf has become part of the newspaper archives, which have long since entered corruption and political crime into the annals of the history of our country! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] And what are we experiencing today, in the present, in the past months and years? – Skylink, BUWOG, Telekom, Grasser, SPÖ-Gartlehner €60 000, Hochegger, Meischberger, Strasser, Scheuch, Reichhold, ÖBB-Scandal, Mensdorff-Pouilly, Gusenbauer and finally the lubricating scandal around MÁV Cargo! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Today we experience once again that there are criminal investigations against five government officials: against Faymann and Ostermayer because of the ads, against blacksmith because of the municipal credit, against Darabos around the post-chacher with abductor and against Stöger around the listeria scandal. Ladies and gentlemen! Do you really want to continue living in such a republic? Do you really want to face the citizens of our country who, without a doubt, believe that all politicians are criminals? Have you not recognized the seriousness of this situation and of the state, ladies and gentlemen, that this country has been covered for years and decades by the felt of corruption? [[Call the ÖVP:A mirror!]] Ladies and gentlemen! We have reached a turning point of the Republic today. Ash on our head and also humility! We are at the turning point, and it crystallizes who wants something in this House as a legislator. Do we want the artificial excitement of this House, and in two weeks we will cover again? Do we just want to excite ourselves artificially here at the Pult of the Republic – because we know that the ORF transmits live – and toss the opposite with dirt? [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] Or do we decide today and here, in humility and respect for taxpayers, that we want to inform ourselves about this anti-corruption summit in this country? [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Take to heart the words of President Kirchschlager, who wanted to dry the swamps, ladies and gentlemen! Let us not only get rid of it as a word for Sunday, but let us believe that politics is not, salopp said, a business, but that politics is an vocation! Respect today for two speeches, unusual praise: Respect for Mr Pilz's speech and, of course, respect and recognition for the speech by Seppi Bucher, who has also guaranteed here today that the BZÖ will support all measures to help, in all openness, humility and honesty, that this Republic and that politicians of this country will be freed from this felt of corruption! Ladies and gentlemen! We are not guilty of it ourselves – you all, we all get enough pain money for the fact that we have to endure something that the people in this country think about politicians – no, we owe it to the citizens of our country who rightly say: No matter what we do and what we choose, the up there judge it anyway and stuff the bags! This should not be left of politics in Austria in 2011. Josef Bucher rightly proclaimed two weeks ago the action “Mani pulite”, the action “clean hands” in this country. The Christian Democrats – by the way, the sister of you, the ÖVP – also had to go through this in the nineties, after they had sunk into the Mafia swamp. Ladies and gentlemen! Action ‘Mani pulite’: Who says you clean any city or you clean the policy of anything, should first have your own hands clean in the future. I think that's essential. A Yes to the Investigation Committee, a Yes to Enlighten Without View of Persons and Parties! Yes, even if there has been something like this in the BZÖ: merciless investigation, extradition to the justice, tabula rasa, reinship making! This is what people expect, not the mutual nervous Hickhack, Mr. Strache, who delivered you here today: Everyone's to blame, but I'm not, and then you'll bust around in a box with Mr. Scheuch, the party donation for citizenship. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Do you realize at what point of departure in this country we are: Honesty, humility, respect, Enlightenment, transparency and Truthfulness of the political caste – or continue to base in the swamp of the short-term artificial excitement, and at the end of the day you pack up with the pots of the country again! [[Intervocations at ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We stand by the fact that these scandals are being dealt with mercilessly. We stand by the fact that politicians will also come together here in the future to prevent what has already happened in the past from being possible in the future. We should finally learn from this past at the height of the corruption summit in Austria, go in and clear the way that this republic will really become a liberated republic in the future! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00116_d7e12864	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Jarolim. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00116_d7e12920	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen. What is to be said about such a speech? – I don’t think who is so deep in the swamp should actually say that. If artificial excitement has been addressed here, Mr Grosz, then this remains with you. [[Abg. Grosz: Euroteam!]] I don't want to say anything about that. [[Abg. Grosz: Explain to us something about the Euroteam!]] Perhaps the one indication of what the FPÖ is about is also in the room... [[Abg. Grosz: Take the opportunity to apologize to the citizens!]] But I think, basically, we have today... – Don't be so obsessive, Mr Grosz, and hold back a little bit! [[Abg. Grosz: Do something!]] [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] I'm not your therapist, take note of this. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Grosz: Say something to Gartlehner and his 60,000 € from Hochegger! Tell him to go here!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I think what we've seen and heard today shows a massive network, a swamp that we need to clarify. I believe that it is therefore not a question that we need an investigation committee. I can certainly follow the words of Mr Bartenstein and also of the Lord's Head: This is an absolute necessity! I would like to say very briefly, because today we have heard several of the changes from the FPÖ to the BZÖ: I believe, Mr Strache, that in the end it is completely wretched what you are telling us about what was and what was not in Knittelfeld. The fact alone – and he has been addressed here – that Mr Scheuch has arrived, who has been sentenced to a year and a half, who is now running through the area as a cleptomane and as a criminal, and who you hold the bar, shows that you really cannot do anything with the claims you have made. That's why I'd say: Just leave that! Let us really allow this committee of inquiry, and then the question is: when? [[Abg. Strache: Vote today!]] There will certainly be some surprises that will make you meet. If I look at who was clearly acceptable to you by the government ministers and is obviously coming to the criminal field, where there are investigations, I am not at all afraid that it is going in this direction. I believe that we owe this to the citizens, too, to finally explain what they say and what really is. That is, I think, all our concerns. I would like to invite everyone to think about a subject: We already had committees of inquiry, and we should also have one in this case, that is not at all a question, but it should not be so that we are then laughed at on the public stage, namely that there are 19 out of 20 people out of the statement, indicating that a criminal procedure is currently under way against them. I am really grateful for any indication of how we can prevent this, ladies and gentlemen. But I think it is also important for people outside that they see that Parliament really has a sharp weapon and can enforce it. But this is not the case if we have a long list of witnesses and get 19 cancellations from 20 people. That is why it is important that we use this committee as quickly as possible – as I am with you – but that we also use it in such a way that we can prevent it, and that, in the meantime, we also give the means to justice – and it is gratifying that there has been a lot of action – that are necessary to expose these criminal causas. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: But then it will be 2015! It can't be a serious argument...!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Previously, the Leniency Notice has been addressed here. We from the SPÖ have been persecuting this leniency scheme for three years – even in cooperation with others, no question – and this has not been an easy way. There were many resistances, resistances from where I had not expected them. So now it becomes clear how efficient and effective this means of the decommissioning scheme is. It will certainly also come out a few more than what has been discussed here today. I'm interested, for example. The following: What about the millions burned in the justice tower, where no one can really explain to me why this overcrowding took place? What about a Mr Böhmdorfer – to address only one word here – who has drawn responsibility for this? What about a Mr Huber, who has moved his real estate business all over the country, how does that look? What about Mr Scheuch, in particular: What about his insurance matters, which we also know? – Mr Strache, you have a real need! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bitch.]] Then I would have liked to know what the supervisory councils in this country, especially in the ÖIAG, intend to take on responsibilities. In particular, Mr Michaelis, who obviously did nothing at all in this Telekom scandal, when the share was raised. Ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about the fact that something like this will no longer happen in the future, of course there must also be a rethinking in the organs. What Michaelis has done here is the prototype of how it should not be done. There are therefore a number of proposals, including such legal nature. We need to strengthen the public prosecutor's authorities, but also changes to the share law, where we need to tighten the liability of the Supervisory Board, where we have to address the individual publication of salaries and remuneration policy as a whole, where a reasonable regulation must also be implemented in the case of the members of the Board of Directors, which is ultimately to be examined responsibly in the Supervisory Board. Let's see these opportunities, let's do it together! Let's see that we get this investigation committee, but let's also see that we get it so that it can actually get results. Then we're al-le, I think, on the right side. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00116_d7e13070	Next speaker: Mr Amon. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00116_d7e13091	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! It's almost all said. [[Abg. Kickl: And now is the ÖVP's application coming?]] [[Further calls.]] Not yet from me, that's right. The question at the end of such a debate is: Who's she useful to? The picture that has been given today is, I believe, not a good one for politics at all. It's a sad picture because it gives the impression that they're all corrupt, corrupt, indecent anyway; everyone calls: “Keep the thief,” each party accuses the other of being unreasonable. Ladies and gentlemen, I seriously ask you: Is that the picture we want to convey? Is this really about serious information, or is it about making a quick and cheap point? There are two smaller parties in the house who believe they're out there. [[Abg. Kickl: We already have our vertebra behind us!]] Mrs. Dr. Glawischnig, the statements of your Dr. Pilz were the usual accusations. But I ask you today, and I ask you: They stand for transparency when it comes to the issues of party funding – then go out today and tell us exactly when you are taking action when you place your weight in the Vienna scale to ensure that the nature of the Vienna party funding is made transparent and public! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Bucher, the BZÖ washes his hands in innocence at all: The name “Hubert Gorbach” never heard, never seen, has nothing to do with us that comes, Gerald Grosz, not in front of you in your long list of names that you present here! 600,000 € from Deutsche Telekom supposedly to the BZÖ – direct party financing? [[Abg. Grosz: Telekom!]] [[Call the ÖVP: In the cash register!]] An interesting question! The BZÖ has nothing to do with all of this? [[Abg. Grosz: All documents to the Public Prosecutor's Office!]] [[Further calls.]] An agency that bears the sensual name “orange” – orange – has nothing to do with the BZÖ? So who benefits from this debate, ladies and gentlemen? – It’s about serious information. Our clubman said: We want such an investigation committee quickly and soon. And I'm with Mr. Jarolim: I'm also in favour of making it clear to the person. Even without respect of persons, if they belong to their own party – I say this clearly – in front of the curtain, to the court, to condemn! Political responsibility must be here, without regard to the person and regardless of which party belongs to that person. It must be concluded that someone understands the Republic or a close-to-state company as a self-service shop, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is unacceptable – and I believe most of you are doing the same – that we are constantly thrown into a pot with people who develop criminal energy. I'm sick of it! I would like to say this clearly today. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But when it comes to serious reconnaissance, ladies and gentlemen, you have to keep this up: Not every flow of money, Mrs. Dr. Glawischnig, who goes from one company to another, is already a criminal act! Even this simple suspicion that all those who get a sponsorship here in any way can already be put in the criminal corner is unacceptable. We must also stop these pre-conceptions before there has been a proper trial and a conviction. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] There are also companies in your, in the green environment who get orders, quite naturally, also from close-to-state companies who are doing their work properly, and this also applies to other parties. That too, I believe, should be taken to heart. Our clubman spoke of the rapid and rapid establishment of a committee of inquiry. Yes, there are political implications, quite obviously, that is being examined, as the political responsibility is clarified. But I'm also with Mr Jarolim: We also need to think carefully about what it means if we use an investigation committee in parallel to a court procedure. You have to think about it. President Fierce is right when he says that the legislator has not excluded this, but in the past we have experienced in the case of investigation committees that witnesses have been invited to provide information and one after the other the statement is made because he is an accused person in the proceedings. This, of course, hinders the possibilities of the investigation. But to your argument, you can't wait until the Sankt-Nimmerleins day when you set up a committee like this: I'll give you that. It is therefore necessary to define clearly the subject matter of the investigation so that we do not come towards a forest and meadow examination committee by concretely stating which subject to examine. Let's have party talks about it and we'll investigate it. But let us not present a political tribunal in which prejudgment is the main issue and where it is not a question of information, but of the cheap political point.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00116_d7e13224	Mrs Klubobfrau Dr Glawischnig-Piesczek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00116_d7e13245	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. State Secretary! Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Yes, I can sign what you said, namely, no pre-conceptions; but then I would wish for something, not a flat-rate sanctifications in advance. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] At the moment, however, I have the impression that the ÖVP is no longer a party, but a community of faith, which explicitly hangs around the era Wolfgang Schüssel a saint's light and makes everything that has happened infallible – and that is not an attitude that will lead to merciless Enlightenment, certainly not! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We are dealing here with one of the biggest economic and political scandals in the last 20 years. [[Mr Rädler and Mr Großruck.]] – If you're back here with your anti-female chatter – I would like to repeat this briefly: High Teacher of the Nation – I would like to tell you that you should really be very careful. As a member of the ÖVP on days like this not to participate in a serious, serious debate, but simply to get involved in it from the back banks, that is really not a contribution in this situation! - No, that's just not all right! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Ing. Schultes:... superlative!]] That's really not all right! Once you've been seriously considering the matter! Just think of the many clues that have come from greens in recent years! And believe me, we would like to deal with other things, as shards and relics of the black and blue era and to gather together! I would just like to mention that again. [[Abg. Head: I don't think so!]] Gabi Moser’s case-law has led to judicial investigations in the areas of Telekom and BUWOG. The case-law of the Carinthian countryman Rolf Holub led to investigations in the Causa Hypo Alpe-Adria. [[Abg. Dr. Strutz: stopped!]] The facts of Peter Pilz have led to investigations into the Causen Eurofighter, Novomatic and OMV. These are the things that you call “throw away upon yourself. ” This is the work we are doing as Members of Parliament. You should take a serious part in this control work and not argue at such a level! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Strutz: Acknowledgment for cults!]] It obviously looks as if this is the verbal majority for an investigation committee, but we still do not have a majority in this House, and I really cannot understand it anymore. The SPÖ intervenes at once with the really strangest arguments for delay of time. I would like to disarm these arguments once again. Court of First Instance. – Do you know what that means? That is to say, we now have to wait at least three, four, five years until all are legally condemned in order to be able to set up an investigation committee. This cannot be a serious argument, Mr Herb, Mr Jarolim! What is this argument? If we only want to have the opportunity to have half-seriously completed the work until the 2013 election campaign, we must immediately start the investigation work. Otherwise, there will never be an opportunity to make an attempt to restore the legitimate interest of the Austrian population and trust. The things that happened here are really bad. This is about the suspicion of the worst thing that can happen in democracy: that laws, regulations and citizenship can be bought. These are very, very bad things! That is why I ask you: Recognize the seriousness of the situation and decide with us here, today and now a committee of inquiry – that can't be so difficult – both, ÖVP and SPÖ! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Amon: Do you say something about Vienna party financing?]] I'd also like to say something to Vienna. It is enshrined in the Parties' Convention that the promotion of the parties is being put on new feet. You can also read that there. And finally, How many times have we read OECD reports here in the house every year?- Oh, my God! ‘There has been Little or No Enforcement in another eighteen counties’. Again and again, Austria is mentioned, with countries such as Brazil and Bulgaria, as one of the countries that have not taken a single step forward in the strengthening of the rules on corruption, and this has been happening for a decade. In reports of 2006, 2007, 2008 and 2009, the same sentence stands out again and again: No improvement in Austria. You must also explain to us: you, too, as a great coalition, why you were not willing to finally put these important legislative proposals on the table and decide with us in the last two years! Now we're waiting for the Christkind. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] Someone said we could decide before the Christian child. We should have decided and been able to do that for a long time.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00116_d7e13379	No one is reported in the word anymore. I'll close the debate. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Kogler, colleagues and colleagues on Glasses Party Banks. I would ask those Members who are in favour of this request to give an acceptable sign. – The request is rejected. [[16:17:08]] Short debate on applications for the setting up of an investigative committee
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00116_d7e13415	We come to the debate on the request for the setting up of a committee of inquiry by Mr Dr. Moser, colleagues and colleagues to examine the political responsibility for corruption under the Black and Blue Government, on the Request by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Deimek, ladies and gentlemen, on the establishment of a Committee of Inquiry for the investigation of corruption and the Request from Members of the Booker, colleagues and colleagues on the establishment of an investigative committee for the comprehensive investigation of indirect and direct flows of money without any consideration to the direct environment of politicians and political parties in the cases of Telekom, BUWOG and government radio. As announced, the applicants will first justify the applications, the subsequent debate will be carried out under one. All requests have now been distributed to MEPs. The three applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] Request by Mr DI Deimek and other Members, on the establishment of a Committee of Inquiry for the investigation of allegations of corruption The Members of Parliament are requesting to set up an investigation committee in relation to S:V:F:G:B = 5:5:3:2:1. Subject-matter of the investigation Study of the political responsibility of (former) members of the Federal Government with a view to their possible bribery in connection with the activities of the A1 Telekom Austria Group. In particular, the following points should be considered: 1. Interventions by government politicians during the purchase of Telekom daughters in Bulgaria and Belarus. 2. Remunerations for politicians or political parties for these purchases. 3rd. Check whether Deutsche Telekom's payments to lobbyists and entrepreneurs such as Peter Hochegger, Walter Meischberger, Alfons Mensdorff-Pouilly and Martin Schlaef are covered by comprehensible titles. 4. Examining the cash benefits paid directly or indirectly to (former) politicians and for what reason these benefits took place. 5. Consider whether a failure of State supervisory mechanisms has occurred in the manipulation of the Telekom share price and the payout of bonuses. 6. Consider whether in causa Telekom cross-links to other possible corruption scandals such as the causa BUWOG, the causa Eurofighter or the award of the Tetron digital control radio. 7. Information on the taxation of all payments made by Telekom Austria to their lobbyists. Investigation order The Committee of Inquiry shall, by applying all the instruments provided for in the UA, in particular through the submission of acts of the Federal Ministry of Justice; for transport, innovation and technology; for finance; and of acts of the judicial authorities and the Court of Auditors, as well as the consultation of persons identifying the subject-matter of the investigation and examining their political responsibilities. Reasons In recent days and weeks, massive accusations have been made regarding Telekom Austria, as well as against several existing and former members of the government and politics. table mandates, starting with the award of the blue light radio by the then ÖVP Minister of the Interior Dr. Ernst Strasser, arbitrary course manipulations etc. ==References== In this context, all parties are charged with accusations. On the one hand, the ÖVP, who in the corresponding period with the newly resigned Member Dr. Wolfgang Schüssel has put the Federal Chancellor and has intensive links with controversial lobbyists Alfons Mensdorff-Pouilly and with former ÖVP Minister of the Interior Dr. Ernst Strasser and ÖVP-Bundesrat Mag. Harald Himmer is closely linked to the award of the digital blue light radio. On the other hand, against BZÖ and FPÖ, as they have put the Transport Ministers under the governments of Dr Wolfgang Schüssel, but also against SPÖ due to alleged payments to SPÖ delegates and the questionable role of former SPÖ Transport Minister Caspar One in connection with the award of UMTS licences. The SPÖ-Deputy Ing. Kurt Gartlehneroll has received payments of 30,000 euros from Telekom for an “expert for broadband development”. The Greens and their former representatives, Monika Langthaler, are also accused; Monika Langthaler has received payments from Telekom for years through Filmhof GmbH, a company in which it is 25% involved. In 2002 the lobbyist and investor Martin Schlaef, together with former ÖVP-Obmann and entrepreneur Josef Taus, bought the Bulgarian mobile phones and sold them to Telekom Austria by more than twice in 2005. Even the Telekom peak now admits that there are “indicias” for corruption in this context. Again and again the name Peter Hochegger appears, which has influenced Austrian politics and economy with various companies for many years and has also been very controversial for years. He is said to have received some 25 million euros from Telekom Austria since the late 1990s. With politics, Hochegger has been doing business for many years, among others. In 1996, he organized a press discussion by the then Minister of Agriculture and later Vice Chancellor Molterer, LH Erwin Pröll and the long-standing mayor of Vienna Dr. Michael Häupl, and was responsible for the campaign for the NAP of then SPÖ Social Minister Hostasch. ==References====External links== for the weekly newspaper “Die Furche” and a budget of the Federal Government, C&A, NÖM and Mercury insurance also rely on Hochegger. Not to be overlooked is the network and development of Alfons Mensdorff-Pouilly, who regularly invited to hunting companies with influential politicians, their employees and managers of companies such as Telekom or Alcatel. for such events, according to media reports, etc. ==References====External links== Alfons Mensdorff-Pouilly, known so far as a weapons lobbyist, was involved in the award of the digital blue light radio and is said to have received 1.1 million euros from Telekom without a traceable return. As public confidence in justice has reached a historical low, it is necessary to set up an investigation committee. In formal terms, the Members of Parliament are required in accordance with § 33 para. 1 LEG the implementation of a short debate. Request for the establishment of a Committee of Inquiry with debate (requests) § 33 para. 1 iVm § 33 para. 2 GOG-NR Deputies Josef Bucher, Mag. Ewald Stadler, Gerald Grosz, colleagues on the establishment of an investigative committee pursuant to § 33 GOG-NR for the comprehensive investigation of indirect and direct flows of money without any equivalents to the direct environment of politicians and political parties in the cases of Telekom, BUWOG and government radio Subject-matter of the investigation Study of indirect and direct flows of money without any consideration in the direct environment of politicians and political parties in the cases of Telekom, BUWOG and government radio and in particular clarifying whether and to what extent such flows have affected political decisions. Investigation order The purpose of the investigation committee is to apply all the instruments provided for in the VO-UA to the subject-matter of the investigation, in particular through the submission of dossiers by the Federal Ministries and by the consultation of information subjects which determine the subject-matter of the investigation. Reasons For many years now, there have been indications of opaque transactions in the dark circle of politics – mostly unpromulgated and criminally unenforced. The palette includes many types of games: From the amazingly fast financial reorganisation of all highly indebted parties to the award of individual benefits to unusually high prices, from alleged benefits that are paid unusually well and strange award procedures repeated for so long until the result “fits” to strange acquisitions of close-to-state transactions by certain economic operators, who deal with festivals, Supervisory Boards, Honors, etc. from the dark backgrounds of some titles, honour marks and citizenships to the lobbying relationships between administration, politics and interest groups and politicians who receive benefits for political decisions, to friendships that lead to financially interesting results, etc. usf. The current “Telekom” case has now finally brought the barrel to the eyes of the Austrians, with its possibly up to the time of the federal government, but also in all the factions that are reaching out in all political groups. The reputation of Austrian politics and its actors is now at risk as a whole, which in turn can have inevitable consequences for the functioning of democracy in Austria. Time to finally make a clean table and politically make a common new beginning with clean hands! The applicants therefore propose that the system of “inhabiting” the top-level policy with the “large” economy, which appears to exist in a wide range of areas, should also include: Impact on political decisions based on current examples with a view to ensuring a speedy parliamentary investigation with a view to ensuring that a new "clean Republic" is achieved. The National Council wants to decide: ‘For the purpose of examining indirect and direct flows of money without any consideration to the direct environment of politicians and political parties in the cases of Telekom, BUWOG and government radio, and in particular the question of whether and to what extent such flows have affected political decisions, a Committee of Inquiry consisting of a total of 16 delegates in relation to 5 SPÖ 5 ÖVP 3 FPÖ 2 Green 1 BZÖ shall be set up.’ Request In accordance with Article 33(2) of the GOG-NR, the signed Members also call for a brief debate on this request. ==References== September 2011
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00116_d7e13705	We are going into the debate. For the purposes of § 57a, paragraphs 1 and 2 of the RP, the speaking time in this debate is 5 minutes, those of the first speakers for reasons 10 minutes each. Statements by members of the Federal Government or by State Secretary on the floor should not take more than 10 minutes. Mr Moser, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, the applicant, Mrs Dr Moser, receives the floor. I'll give it to her. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00116_d7e13733	Mr President. Minister of Foreign Affairs! Ladies and gentlemen! You heard: Everyone, everyone wants the Examining Committee – but still it should not be decided today. This completely paradoxical situation stands in the room. We have three different applications – each time Telekom. It is interesting that the application of the liberals focuses on Deutsche Telekom alone and excludes all other areas of investigation. We have a request from the BZÖ, which is broader; and our green request concerns very, very many fields, where the same group of persons has always used the property of the Republic. All of this is inconspicuous. All of this has to be started as soon as possible. This brings me to the words of my previous speakers from the ÖVP. – Yes, the Committee of Inquiry is expected to come soon. Look at the dude! I think the dude is recognized as an extrapartial organ. So if you are looking for in the dude, what is to be understood by “nearly ” and under“ speed, ” you will immediately find yourself. It means: in a short time, immediately, quickly. I'm asking you now: Just physical, how fast is “swift” with you? [[The speaker points to her watch.]] How fast is “rasch” with you? We can still remember today when we agree on the subject matter and the procedure. This appointment can be tonight. The preparatory work can start tomorrow. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Head: What kind of hustle and bustle do you have? There's no danger of escape, we're not running away!]] Only: We need a decision-making base. We also deliver them to you, and this decision-making base is well argued. I'd like to keep them in mind once again. This decision-making base already has a broad majority behind it. If you consider public opinion as a whole, if you consider all the relevant persons in the Republic, the Committee of Inquiry has the broadest majority in place! Who's for it? The President of the Federal Republic of Germany, the former President of the Court of Auditors, Mr Leitl at the Rieder Messe. Who's for it? Treichl. Who also gave a position in the paper? Minister Mitterlehner. Who else is for that? Also the heads of state, I only refer to ÖVP head of state Pühringer. Everyone wants clarification, everyone wants clarification, everyone wants the facts on the table, everyone wants finally morals again in politics, only: She's not coming. The problem is that you do not support the requests. That is really totally reluctant! Please take your own word. What you are doing is always promises – and I have to make your promises in another semantic sense: that you are not telling the truth, but just promising yourself. Otherwise, you can't explain that soon. Let's get to the subject. There has been a total of – from BUWOG to the whole Telekom affair, to citizenship, to government radio and to gambling – consulting contracts, commissions et cetera everywhere. There is a network, i.e. a network of high-eggers, a network of liberals – in the freedom of movement, for example, the real estate specialist Plach. There were – now I tell you something new – interesting meetings of such networks or members of such networks, which then divided over the various areas – from BUWOG through Telekom to the areas of real estate, consulting contracts, citizenship awards and gambling – over and over again. One of these meetings took place on 24 May. February 2004 in the restaurant Novo or Novio, I think restaurant Novio. Participants: Plach – FPÖ-near –, Huber – ÖVP-near –, Meischberger, Hochegger and a real estate specialist. This was also about the distribution of public assets. And what do we have there? Interestingly, the networking of Telekom and BUWOG scandals – that's why both have to be investigated – is always subject to real estate and commissions in the room! That's not yesterday! You still remember: These tape protocols, where Meischberger does not know what his performance was. The achievements that have been done are often highly dubios! I don't need to remind you of that. I would just like to give you a relatively new case, which is going in a Carinthian-liberary direction, once again. Telekom has really sponsored generously, i.e. half a million €. As a normal citizen, you have to imagine how much that is, half a million €! So much was made available to SK Austria Carinthia in the form of a ticket purchase. You have to imagine that! To this amount I can buy 10,000 or 15,000 tickets! I don't know if the club will play for so long that so many tickets can ever be sold – or used – because they have been sold. And who is the President? Canori, former Deputy Mayor of Klagenfurt and former leader of the Freeman. It is also necessary to examine in this direction. We Greens have nothing against it at all if you want to investigate Langthaler too, but it is just lost tiredness of love, shed milk, because nothing will come out of it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz.]] Her husband has organized a cultural event, a film festival, and Deutsche Telekom was a sponsor, just like x others, and these are simple sponsor contracts. You're welcome to investigate this. - So much for your accusation. Much more interesting is the fact that you were informed in all these areas. We have Court of Auditors reports, we have questions. You can't say you didn't know anything. It is interesting that this general memory loss situation is still virulent for many now. You have always known that something is going on in the Black-Blue era, when this network worked out its fishing gears step by step, because there have always been requests. There was a green request to the Universal Service Regulation of Minister Gorbach, which pointed out, as well as to Adonis, as well as to the public service radio, as well as to all the real estate cases – it is all documented, not only in questions and partly incorrect or incorrect answers, there have also been Court of Auditors reports. It's all right there. Only: Then what happens again? The Court of Auditors' committees are going back to the table! And now – the Court of Auditors is the key word – to an argument on its part: Soon and quickly is not so fast and fast, for first of all the justice has to work. I can look back in the direction of SPÖ: You know the state of justice. You know about the lack of staff! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Donnerbauer.]] For this new area of economic and corruption, 40 prosecutors were once promised. It's 14, I think. You know, next to the human bottlenecks, the equipment shortcomings are a problem with which the justice is fighting. The prosecutors suffocate some of the files because they have too few people and too little resources. That's why phone protocols are forgotten for one year. Only when they appear in the public do they return to the subject of investigation. This justice suffers in addition to the staff and equipment – you have paid too little attention to this – at the constant change of the prosecutors who determine. At the BUWOG we already have the second yarn. That is why the Court of Auditors' key word. The Court of Auditors has sent statements of a case-law to the public prosecutor in various real estate areas. [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: ÖBB! Why do you save the ÖBB?]] – A procedure is pending via the ÖBB. And what happens? The competent prosecutor shall be replaced, the case shall begin again from the beginning. A new or a new one needs to work out, and that takes time and time. Also your speed and your pace is the Sankt-Nimmerleins day. I mean, it can't go on! We have always been in favour of the judicial system working in good time and, above all, in good time. That is the next aspect. For so long it was covered because the way of guidance is more laborious, time-consuming and, so to speak, censorship for the prosecutors alone. In this respect, your argument is not at all to be maintained. On the one hand, the judicial system should be better equipped, and on the other hand Parliamentary accompanying measures and investigations should be initiated in parallel. It's anyway so much file material that we won't get to a result so fast and I'm afraid that new elections will start before. If you really want to find out, you need to show this by decision today and now. After all, you really are playing the Roulette, which I would like to say to you at the end of the day. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] It is a roulette of democracy when you constantly undermine the credibility of politics because you prevent decisions and comfort us with “smooth” and “rapid” on the Sankt-Nimmerleins day!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00116_d7e13818	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Deimek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00116_d7e13840	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen here and at home on the televisions! Of course, it is necessary to set up an investigation committee. There is unanimity on this, as all of them are of the same opinion. But: One of the important differences is that Mr Moser has already said that it is a matter of duty of truth. A committee of inquiry has a duty of truth. What is being discussed in the back of the agenda, perhaps a subcommittee of the Committee of the Regions, or something similar to the ÖBB, is totally unacceptable. Because, I remember, We had there statements by Mr Huber, the various board members of Rail Cargo and also information about former representatives of the ÖVP, all of which had been in the field of corruption. All statements were diametrically opposite each other. Nobody knew anything. That's absolutely scandalous. This is only true with an investigative committee. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In this context, perhaps a small correction to the colleague Moser: They said we were just focusing on Deutsche Telekom – not just Deutsche Telekom. If you look at our request carefully, you can see that point 6 is: Check whether there are cross-links to other possible corruption scandals in the Causa Telekom such as the Causa BUWOG or the award of the Tetron digital control radio and so on. We see this quite comprehensively, because that is what makes the whole thing interesting. It doesn't make it interesting at some point in the end, after the court, if all of the statements have turned out if any prosecutors may have examined anything if any judgments have been made afterwards. It is about what has already been harmed – and the damage to the Republic and democracy is not insignificant. He's huge. Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ and of the ÖVP! It is because you have created something like a kind of system preservation in the Republic, in which democracy, but not for the benefit of democracy and not for the benefit of the Republic, but for the benefit of your own. Let us start with Mr Mensdorff-Pouilly. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] I don't even argue that he might have something to do with the ÖVP. It's about something completely different. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Head.]] The whole system in this republic – from the law enforcement, from the orders, from any release, from forgivenesss, from corporate acquisitions or from any sales – is accompanied by governments such as Mensdorff-Pouilly or other lobbyists. And this companion costs money. Some people no longer notice that the money that is unnecessarily spent is unnecessarily used, and that in the final effect is damaging the economy of our state. It's not just money, it's people, too. Interests were mentioned today. Yes, please, who's doing the accordion system? If elections are lost, the former Members will go to any interest groups, to the housing cooperatives or to other associations that are in the back of the mind, which are regularly financed by the state. When elections are won again – hurra! – then you get new Members out of this accordion. That's what's harmful. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] When I remember: In the 1980s, I was a politically interested student from time to time at the visitor gallery. Until 1986, I didn't really notice anything of it. This has subsequently come step by step. That was already under the government of Vrannitzky, that was already an economic specialist. This was the specialist who took out a Euro course from the Financial Times and then sold it back. - I'll give him that. If you have the know-how to read out a course from a newspaper and sell it expensive, then it is actually the disadvantage of buying it, and not the advantage of selling it. But the question is: Is it legitimate? Is it moral? And that's what I'm saying: no. Because the greens are always called high-egger, and because then there is a reflective knock on the ÖVP: In 1996, it was Molterer, Erwin Pröll – but also Mayor Häupl. As mentioned today, it was Mrs. Hostasch in 1999 and it was insurance and banking, which can be attributed to the red camp. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] – To assign Hochegger only to the black half of the empire would be wrong. You have to be fair and take everyone in. When we're talking about the SPÖ: Caspar One with his UMTS licenses sold – there was a lot going on. Faymann was black and blue after the so-called evil black and blue government, which was black and blue for some, possibly of the Greens, until 2006, but also infrastructural ministers. Faymann didn't recognize anything about the Supervisory Boards. The wonderful thing is: He has not only recognized nothing, but he has kept it all, and he has still praised it in his ads. You have to say that twice a mistake has happened. It can't be that way. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is not the fairness I expect from the SPÖ, and it can't be meant by the SPÖ to say that it's fairness if you can cover hearing party debt with any money within a short time. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] I don't want to suspect. It was probably some money. The SPÖ financial officer knows exactly. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: Members!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bitch.]] – Mr Matznetter! As many members as we would have liked, we also had debts. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] – We already have members, but not those who can pay this, you have to calculate it for me. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Bitch.]] Let us still come to the Greens because Mr Pilz and Mrs Glawischnig did not know what former Members Langthaler had done. I already know that Mr Pilz is a little blind on the ideological left eye, especially – including Mr Oellinger, and Mrs Klubobmann Glavischnig. It is likely that Mrs. Klubobmann Glavischnig – the other two will retire – will eventually leave history as the first martyr with ideologically blind left eye. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Club obfrau!]] The point is just: The reason why Mrs. Langthaler or her husband have taxed everything is known to me by Mr. Mensdorff-Pouilly. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: What are you talking about?]] He also says he's taxed everything, he's fine. That's exactly the difference: If everything was taxed, why do we apply for it today? – Because it is not just about taxing, so it is because it is also about corruption, or – as Mrs Finanzminister said today – about compliance – she is so powerful in English. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek.]] A little story, an example: Worldwide – listen to me, Mrs. Klubobmann! – currently go photovoltaic companies in bankruptcy, but the Upper Austrian Council of State is fully on top of it. [[Abg. Strache: The wife of Langthal was Upper Austrian cashier of the Valora!]] The companies that produce this go into bankruptcy because the market has been overestimated, because the market is not so large at all, and because it is not so large in Austria, especially in Upper Austria, of course, it needs someone who constantly drives the whole thing, makes laws and regulations and supports the whole. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: I don't understand you!]] I don't even want to know if there might be any support at all. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Moser.]] On the point of the BZÖ I do not want to say quite a lot, because most of the Members who are sitting on the FPÖ side or in the BZÖ today have participated in this time and this reinwashing – as Klubobmann Strache has said – between Knittelfeld and the split in 2005 not in very joyful memory, but this division, this separation was necessary. She was morally necessary. Sometimes, in the wake of media, one could feel that one was asked whether one was actually at the FPÖ or at the BZÖ. – Please, that was the BZÖ, that was the constructive, and we were the evil and destructive. Today it looks a little different. Mr Grosz! If you remember the Court of Auditors' subcommittee on the ÖBB, do you remember how the phones looked? [[Abg. Grosz: Mr Grosz! So much time must be because we're not you!]] [[Abg. Grosz: You! We're not you!]] What was there a noise around the phones of the ÖBB? Now the noise has to be much greater, because the damage we have in Telekom is much greater. We therefore need to discuss this – starting from the Eurofighters to the Telekom to the MÁV Cargo. There's got to be a system change here. People want the system change. They don't want to know morals and democracy damaged. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In the case of a car that you drove to the wall two years ago, it doesn't use anything today if you say maybe there was something in the brakes. The system is changed, the whole thing is in opposition, and it belongs to it now. We – and this is the difference, Mrs. Klubobmann Glavischnig – have proper increases while the greens stagnate because the people know: [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Clubwife! Try it! It's all right!]] We are the democrats, and we are not the party of systemic greed. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Moser.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00116_d7e14065	On the request of Members of Parliament, Mr Bucher, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Mag. Stadler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00116_d7e14087	Mr President. High house! Mr Amon and Mr Steinhauser – where is he now? – that’s a bit bizarre – now I see him – to want to hang around Hubert Gorbach. [[Call:... Witnesses]] - Please? I call Karlheinz Kopfal's witnesses, he knows how my relationship with Hubsi Gorbach always was. [[Abg. Head:...but your friend!]] – I don't need to hang up Hubsi Gorbach. [[Abg. Head: That doesn't help! Family is family!]] I always thought it was the biggest blender in the Second Republic. I've never made a locust out of it, but the ÖVP loved him for it, so she did care for it. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] He was always so practical, and Stadler was so angry with the ÖVP, so the blacks constantly pushed the Hubsi Gorbach. He then became state governor instead of a second time government member – state governor – and got great paper. That was Hubsi Gorbach, the largest blender in the Second Republic. [[Call BZÖ: Vice-Chairman out of service!]] He was very practical for the ÖVP. Mr Kopf and ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, Mr Steinhauser. But I had to correct myself. After I had experienced Karl-Heinz Grasser in the government, I had to consider Hubsi Gorbach to be the second largest blender in the Second Republic, for this rank has been mercilessly made by the most beautiful finance minister of all time. [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] I remember Grasser diluting his thanks to God at the time and going to the ÖVP. At the time, I told some of you – I think I told you once, Mr. Donnerbauer, but at least some Lower Austrian ÖVPlers –: He'll fly you around your ears once. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank you for your support. I told him: He'll still fly around your ears, I'm glad he's gone. You all believed that this was a safeguard claim because I'm so sad – a shriek! Ladies and gentlemen! I have foretold to you that he will fly around your ears, and he will now fly you around your ears – and you will be right. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] They have enabled this man, so I miss speakers from the Austrian People's Party, just so that this does not go down. I don't know if that's already noticed. Mr Amon! Is there no one about you talking about Grasser now, the Investigation Committee? - No, I don't see anything. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek.]] Who else is from the ÖVP? Who will finally explain to us that Grasser, Strasser and the entire gallery of ancestors of the Austrian People's Party have nothing to do with the ÖVP? [[Between call of the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] I'd be curious about this explanation. [[Abg. Grosz:... colleague Großruck a four-liner!]] – Yes, a four-liner to Grasser, Mr. Großruck, that would be something. That would finally honor him. That would finally satisfy its true quality. Ladies and gentlemen! Now I tell you – also in the direction of SPÖ – something very dramatic: If you vote against these requests for the setting up of investigation committees, all three of them, you will vote against the declared will not only the political responsible in public from the President of the Federal Republic of Germany – Mr Moser has already mentioned a few – but you will also vote against the declared, recognizable, tangible will of the vast majority of the Austrian population. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This majority is what you should consider, this majority of the Austrians, who says: Please clarify this – regardless of the justice! - Yes, one again! [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: I am for that!]] Mr Donnerbauer says, “I am for that. ” Well, then who's bothering you? Ladies and gentlemen from ORF! Please direct the camera to the justice officer of the ÖVP, who has now called in fully: Yes, I'm sure I'm for that! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Donnerbauer.]] But I am convinced – and I make every bet – that he will remain sitting when it comes to voting. [[Abg. Grosz: Or go out!]] – Or go out, yes, yes, very brave. [[Abg. Grosz: Or on the house!]] – No, that would be too much, there would be too much conspicuousness behind it. That is to say, we have a majority of speakers – and that was an example of this now, Mr Donnerbauer says, I am in favour of it – but a majority vote against the requests, and this majority vote against the requests is against the declared will of the majority of the Austrian population. [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany May. Donnerbauer]] You should be aware of that. You know, I'm not so naïve that I believe that this will be effective immediately, but it will help to make even more people stay at home, people you chose before. Even more people will stay at home, not choose other parties, that does not make people alike, but they stay in the crowd at home, turn away and say: I want nothing more to do with this policy – and that is the most devastating thing that policy can do. Ladies and gentlemen! If you have recognizable abuses, you have to read recognizable scandals every day in the newspaper, and there is a majority who claim to want to clarify this, but they are prevented by the minority, then no man believes this nonsense outside. As stupid as you believe, people are not – nor are the wife Schmauswaberl, especially her. [[Call the FPÖ...]] Mrs Schmauswaberl has done very well. She knows what she has to say about Donnerbauer and Co, who say that they are in favour of the committee anyway, but against it, and she will hopefully give you the receipt at the next opportunity, ladies and gentlemen. [[Call the BZÖ:Nix!]] [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Now I am not so presumptuous that I say that all the parties are, so to speak, Mani pulite – even with the Greens, I would think of some things, but I do not want to do so today. Since the Greens are sitting in the state government of Vienna, do you have strange things to do – isn't it, Mr. Van der Bellen? You have to look at that, too, but I don't want to talk about it today. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Talk about it! Make...!]] – No, no, at other times we will hold a debate on how many universities the city of Vienna has already established since Mr Van der Bellen collected fees for this, but that is another subject. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: What was his performance?]] [[Abg. Strache: What was his performance?]] I would just like to tell you that, as a result of the declaration that we want to set up a committee of inquiry here, each party should also be willing to clarify if something could have happened to its own people in its own ranks. We did this. I'm not so presumptuous that I say there was no one who did anything. We have commissioned Deloitte, a renowned company, to examine the years between 2005 and 2008. By the way, that didn't make any other party. Deloitte has not noticed that there was a payment from the advertising agencySchmied to the Orange Advertising Agency, which supposedly – I say again: supposedly – comes from Telekom funds. If that's the case, then that's a piggy and then we have to pay it back. We'll do that. I ask all of you to explain the same thing when things like this come up in your ranks. I am not saying that you all knew what Grasser and Co did, that you all knew what Mr Elsner was doing in Bulgaria. I do not say that, I do not believe that – I have a higher opinion of all of you than you believe – but I urge you to ensure that this is clarified and paid back if you realize that it has come to illegal payments or payments that are incompatible with the political suit. That is my request, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] You have to take a credible first step today. That means: I am looking at what the ÖVP is doing there; nothing until now – without any retention of cooperation with the public prosecutors involved, back cover for the prosecutors who actually want to clarify, and then the willingness to take consequences in terms of personnel, but also in financial terms, if it turns out that there are funds that do not belong to them in your cash registers. Ladies and gentlemen! I've missed that to this day. I miss that up to the hour, and the ÖVP is not even man enough to get out and say something on this subject of debate at all.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00116_d7e14352	A maximum speaking time of 5 minutes shall apply to all further speeches. Mr Krainer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00116_d7e14374	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! In my opinion, there is no way in which a committee of inquiry is passing. [[Ah-Rufe at the FPÖ.]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ:But, but!]] However, I do not think that we are going to use three committees of inquiry today. I think it is necessary – or I would consider it desirable – that the five parties agree on a committee of inquiry, which must have three essential principles, on which all parties should reasonably confess themselves, first of all that this is a question of information and not a question of cover-up, second, that it is about transparency and not scandalization, and thirdly, that it is also about taking place with a certain degree of respect and not with evasion. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Let's have a session break and get together on these things!]] [[Call the FPÖ:Wow!]] I believe that these three principles are necessary for a committee of inquiry and that all three parties should also say that they want to make and implement this committee of inquiry jointly in this sense. I also believe it is necessary that politics – all in politics – here sets a clear sign that it wants to do nothing about the processes that have become known, to exclude them for the present and the future, and that policy wants to draw lessons from them and, if necessary, to take appropriate legal measures to prevent such actions for the future. I believe that such a committee of inquiry needs a clear mandate so that this can be achieved. I think it is reasonable for all political groups to decide on such a committee of inquiry at a reasonable time. In the run-up to this meeting, the three opposition parties did not even agree to a joint request. But I think that all five parties can agree on something like that. There is the good will of social democracy for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00116_d7e14441	Mr Mag. Donnerbauer. - Please. – Mrs Dr Glawischnig-Piesczek. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Business treatment!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Business treatment!]] - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00116_d7e14490	Mr President. I wanted to report briefly for business treatment and the Mr Krainer. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. I propose that this meeting be interrupted and discussed by the club members in order to agree immediately on the content of the subject-matter of the study for this committee.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00116_d7e14522	Mr Mag. Stadler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00116_d7e14546	Mr President. I too would like to avoid this offer – well, I want to expressly praise it! – I want to prevent this offer from being scattered, it’s currently hot, it’s fresh. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You have a special deer in there!]] Therefore: Let us take it up and interrupt the sitting, and let us do what Mr Krainer has proposed. I therefore support the request to interrupt the meeting and form a working group and to ad hocly combine these three requests so that the SPÖ can also agree.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00116_d7e14594	Mr. Klubobmann's head. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00116_d7e14619	Mr President. We have already created a committee of inquiry in this House – and I am a burned child – very ad hoc during a session, and at the end of the day a subject of investigation has come out, which was about so broad and has been exploited from all sides. [[the speaker makes a corresponding hand movement]] I do not think this is a good idea, but it remains what I said to my group: We want this committee of inquiry, and it will come about soon. But it is not necessary to do such a Ho-ruck action now.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00116_d7e14649	Mr Strache. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00116_d7e14673	Mr President. I think that this also shows the constructiveness of the opposition, if one can really respond positively to such proposals, if they are serious, by interrupting the session. We will certainly bring together a good formulation in two hours. But a little treachery I've already felt from the clubman's head saying that he doesn't want this to be widely clarified. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] This is precisely what your parties, ÖVP and SPÖ, have prevented in the last committee of inquiry. I think it needs broad and comprehensive clarification. But we're not talking about: Adjournment of meetings, joint formulation of an investigation order, so that we can clarify these scandals widely and comprehensively.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00116_d7e14707	For business treatment: Mr. Klubobmann Cap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00116_d7e14733	I would suggest that we take ourselves a little seriously. [[Live calls to FPÖ, BZÖ and greens, including Abg. That's what it's all about! That's exactly what it's all about.]] All three opposition parties have criticized the arrival of the last investigation committee. You said it was on call, it went too fast, it was shodded down. The Committee of Inquiry then argued more than was examined. This has been very damaging to Parliament and the setting up of the Committee of Inquiry. It therefore makes no sense to repeat this, and I therefore believe that what we have all said today is true. And you should also have listened closely to Mr Krainer, who has basically said nothing else, namely that you are here at rest... – Yes, but that is justified if I tell you, because there are some accusations that the investigation committee is also misused on other things by working with pre-conceptions, with attacks et cetera. [[Ironic cheerfulness at FPÖ and BZÖ]] [[Abg. Street: So much to “take it seriously ”!]] All of this is not a service to the Committee of Inquiry's instrument, but a clean work is to be done. We owe it to ourselves, we should. That is why I believe that there should be some restless thought about collecting new findings from the judiciary – all five parties have voted in favour today – and it will probably be possible to achieve a result in that way – which is really constructive and not at the expense of this institution's reputation here in Parliament. I'm sorry if I have to say that!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00116_d7e14784	Since there is no unanimous opinion on this question, I am not interrupting the sitting. There will still be three amendments to vote today. I would like to point out that, as early as 9 a.m. tomorrow, a presidential can do quite a concrete will-building, if desired. Mr Magnificent came to speak. Donnerbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00116_d7e14810	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! It was also an example of how little serious this appeal is for the Enlightenment of the Opposition. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Now you finally stop! It's not going to be any more!]] [[Further calls at FPÖ and BZÖ.]] Why can't you just listen, ladies and gentlemen?- Oh, my God! What I mean by that is the following – and I'm not saying this as an accusation, I'm just saying it as a fact –: These three opposition parties have not managed to make a joint request for an investigation committee in two weeks, and they now expect all of us to do so together in half an hour. This can't be serious, it's not serious dealing with a serious topic. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, yes, it is not a question of corruption, that bribery is a secret disease, a sluggish poison for economy and democracy, because corruption not only causes one thing, namely unjust awarding of orders, unjust occupations, but above all undermines the trust of the people, the people in the functioning of democracy and the rule of law. That is why we are also on this line: A clear one. No to corruption and to transparency, ladies and gentlemen. A clear yes to the reconnaissance of these scandals, the suspicion moments that stand in the room today, that is, enlightenment without respect for the person, without regard to party membership and without consideration. [[Abg. Strache: But “No” to the U Committee today!]] [[Abg. Strache: That's why you reject the U-committee today!]] It is now – and this is a priority, I believe – to carry out the investigation by the police and by the prosecutor's office. It is to be determined with full steam, and we have everything to do to the prosecutor's office to enable the police to carry out an efficient investigation and investigation as well. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, this government has created a very effective instrument, a new instrument, with the economic and corruption prosecutorship that opened its doors just a few days ago, and thus also a clear signal against corruption, against transparency, and for a clear reconnaissance of offenses. Thirdly, Yes, there should also be common measures, and we are already in the middle of them, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. We had a round twice in the summer with the judges. We have put the various proposals on the table. We have once seen where there are common ground where there are still differences when it comes to creating more transparent rules for the mandates when it comes to introducing necessary measures in criminal law when it comes to discussing party funding and making it more transparent. We should also discuss these measures more quickly and implement them here in the House. This is what the citizens expect of us. And now, my dear colleague Stadler, I come to the message you wanted: Yes, I stand – and also the ÖVP has said it several times clearly, lastly again Klubobmann Head – at an investigation committee on Causa Telekom and other possible corruption cases that are now at the table – but at the right time. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Can you call a time? I'd like to know that!]] I think there are a lot of factual reasons for saying that now and today is not the right time to do so. [[Abg. May. Stadler: When is it? When?]] The first very important reason, Mr Stadler, is: The investigative committee, the Parliament has no independent means of investigation. We can't do a house search. We can't go somewhere and open accounts. All of this is not in Parliament's power. That is why we insist that before, police, prosecutors, courts will be able to carry out appropriate investigations and then ask for material, take file inspection, load information. Without this material, without the prior work of the police and the judiciary, it is not possible to investigate at all. What remains is a purely political exchange, and I believe that people really have enough of it. The second reason has already been mentioned several times: There is a slight possibility for information subjects to be discharged as long as criminal proceedings are still in progress. And the third reason is, and this too, I believe, a very serious reason why the prosecutor's office, partly feared that a parallel investigation committee would make the investigations more difficult. If you don't believe it, ladies and gentlemen, then you might believe it to be the corruption prosecutor's office. The leader is, by the way, a former green representative; I hope you believe this. [[Abg. Strache: Could that be the informant of Peter Pilz? It's just thinking!]] ==References====External links== In September in the ORF, he is skeptical of a Committee of Inquiry parallel to the investigations. He has literally said: It must be taken into account whether this is the appropriate means to conduct undistorted investigations, because the circle of persons involved is increasing, the coordination is more difficult. - Quote. These are arguments that are in favour of not overhearing and not introducing the Committee of Inquiry today. But we're talking about this: Let's take our time, let's get together in the next few days and weeks! Let us take the results of the investigations, which are publicly known, and really go a credible, common path – with a joint inquiry committee application and a joint investigation mission! I think that's what people expect of us.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00116_d7e14927	For the members of the Presidents, I must correct myself: The sitting does not begin at 9 a.m., but already at 8.30 a.m. Mr Pilz, Member of the Commission. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00116_d7e14952	Ladies and gentlemen, in particular SPÖ and ÖVP! In my opinion, we have a week now. The promises are on the table. The promise of the ÖVP is very clear, the promise of the SPÖ is unclear as always. However, this is really absolutely in my mind in this respect, because it will not play a role either. The motives are relatively clear: The ÖVP wants to take the flight forward. If it cannot prevent the investigation committee, it would like to reduce it as much as possible. We will see that, we will negotiate the subject matter seriously. I like to be surprised. But we have a lot to examine. We have already made an offer on the part of our group, one because too big Causa is not included in this committee of inquiry, that is the Causa Eurofighter. This would simply and simply overshadow the investigation committee. All other Causen include, in particular – in my opinion – the two biggest political inconsistencies: the acquisition of law in the case of Novomatic and citizenship in the case of Scheuch; for if something has to be investigated, it is precisely what goes into the heart and center of state administration or parliamentary legislation and clearly represents cases of severe abuse. The SPÖ has a completely different interest: an examination committee as late as possible and as large as possible in order to be able to harm the ÖVP maximum before the next National Council election. That's how stop in the SPÖ is thought. Good luck for the coalition climate! If the SPÖ is already preparing an April/May/June attack on the ÖVP, then these are once again trusting measures. [[Abg. Head: Where does this insider information come from?]] I think we will make it much easier for all of us if we say quite openly: ==References== The next plenary session of the National Council will take place on September 1. Until then, there should be a common application for the establishment of an investigation committee. We'll definitely bring one in, then it'll go on for a couple more weeks. But it is much more reasonable and more acceptable to all of us if we can take this decision together next Wednesday. I'm just saying there are a few conditions for us. Limit the fee so that the most important corruption cases, such as the purchase of citizenship or the attempted purchase of the gambling law, cannot be investigated, that is certainly not possible! In particular, we will not be allowed to make any regulations by the Freedom Party, as the main corruption party of this Republic, and we will not take any account of the state of a party through and through corrupt parties. [[Interim calls at the FPÖ]] We are certainly guilty of this House, the Austrian legislator and the reputation of politics in this Republic. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00116_d7e14994	Next speaker: Mr Petzner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00116_d7e15016	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Rädler: Deutsche Bank, Hypo!]] – I would also like to add this today, Mr Commissioner. I really wonder why you do not want to vote in favour of this committee of inquiry. I have a pretty slow suspicion that you may not have time at all, ladies and gentlemen, the ÖVP is busy with holding to various party resolution trends in the Vienna city party, and the SPÖ is busy preparing new elections. But none of these two things benefits the Republic of Austria, neither of which benefits the voters, but the voters want to be fully and correctly clarified in this committee of inquiry, and that immediately, immediately and promptly. And this is also the intention we have from the BZÖ. We should all be interested in the fact that this comprehensive information takes place in the sense that the reputation of politics is restored and that there are consequences for those who are responsible for the wrongs. And one thing is also clear – that has already been said –: A committee of inquiry, in particular, has the task of clarifying political and no criminal responsibility, and we know that not everything that is legally in order is also politically and morally correct. That is the crucial point, ladies and gentlemen, and that is why this committee of inquiry is so necessary. If you want to have a practical example of an investigation committee that works parallel to the investigation of the prosecutor's office, look at Carinthia. They all praise the hypo-reconnaissance. In Carinthia there is the second investigative committee on the Causa Hypo Alpe-Adria, the second within a few years, which takes place in parallel with the investigations of the CSI Hypo and the Public Prosecutor's Office. The example of Carinthia shows how to provide transparent information, and you should also take an example in this federal country. I am a witness myself tomorrow, have received a witness charge and, of course, comply with my duty. I am looking forward to today's statement by the Minister of Finance on a letter that I will present tomorrow, on a secret file of the Ministry of Finance, which also reveals the Causa Hypo Alpe-Adria in a completely new light. But more about that tomorrow. What I would like to say to my colleague, Mr Moser, where we have to be generally careful: If you put heavy accusations on the table, you have to be ready to apologize if you've been wrong. Mrs Moser, you said a few days ago at a press conference that the FC Carinthia would have received €500 000. You now know: That's wrong! President Steindorfer will also complain to you. Have fun with the cancellation in the “Mitagsjournal”! Today you've talked about a SC Carinthia again. Mrs. Moser, there is no SC Carinthia; I don't know where this association exists. SC Carinthia is also wrong. There is a SK Austria Carinthia. So if you make any claims, then you should research exactly before. Second example: Mr Pilz has always spoken of the 45 million of Mr Haider. First they came from the Gaddafi, then they came from Mr. Hussein. Of none of these two rulers there is this 45 million €! I would just like to make one point with these two examples, namely that this Committee of Inquiry should, in particular, have the objective, as I have already said, to do material, serious information work. He should not be used to beat party-political change, for if anyone believes that he can draw some political advantage from these accusations of corruption from the Causa Telekom, then I think he is on the way to the wood road because it will not use a party of the House. Used is only the Republic, the cleanliness is used, the taxpayer is used when the responsibilities are clarified when the political information takes place and the political leaders are also held accountable, just as we have lived through the BZÖ. If responsibilities have happened in our area, we have addressed the offensive, have sent a statement of the facts to the prosecutor and immediately excluded the person concerned from the BZÖ. The other parliamentary parties should take this approach as a model, for example Mr Gartlehner, who is still sitting here today, to mention just one example of people who have received money from Mr Hochegger and still sit here in the House and are playing with their Telekom phone.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00116_d7e15055	Mr Pilz, Member of the European Parliament, for the flat-rate accusation: The FPÖ is a perverse and corrupt party!, I give you an order call. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: This is a black and blue presidency!]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Mr Fichtenbauer. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00116_d7e15102	Mr President. High house! Of course, it is not at all a question of qualifying for the autosuggested self-snacks that will capture the nerves of my colleague Pilz when he becomes sensitive to the Freedom Party and is able to calculate how the proportion of the Greens' votes will fall in relation to the FPÖ at the next election. Of course, it has something to do with a felt disadvantage in relation to the political spectrum. This is to be respected and not to qualify any further. However, it is of course true that it is purely objective to note that the participation of Mr Pilz in a committee of inquiry, which has always been set up, is of the highest energy, and we will see what is coming. In fact, and above all only for the protocol, it is because of why we cannot decide on an investigation committee today, because it has not yet become minority law. It is an original history of Parliament that, as a purchase price for the consent to limit banking secrecy and to grant the necessary constitutional majority, Green has been approved and a paper has been prepared to create a minority right to set up investigation committees in the National Council by September 2009 at the latest – but now we are already in 2011. Although this paper has been written without the invitation of FPÖ – Mr Amon has duly expressed his regret for this fact to me – we have, however, played the greatest part in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amon]] However, the result is that there has actually been a pattern between ÖVP and SPÖ. We have tried hard to resolve this situation, but it is now a fact. Even though all in the above-priestly manner explain to each other how decent, how great and how energetic they pursue all the possible misunderstandings of the Republic, the problem in this House has not been solved very easily within this House, an amendment of the Rules of Procedure has not taken place despite all these requirements. I declare once again, on behalf of the Freeman, that there was no lack of energy on our part. With all the existing protocols of all sessions, it is possible to document exactly how extremely zealous and positive we have worked on this matter. Be around. I invite everyone to descend from their self-challenged moral wooden horse into the downfalls of feasibility. And if it is indeed the case that a committee of inquiry is seriously sought, then of course it can be decided at the next meeting. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I announce that the Freedom Party will again not lack serious involvement. In conclusion: It lives the Republic, and it's all kinds of corruption. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00116_d7e15162	No one is reported in the word anymore. Before closing the debate, I would like to turn once again to Mr Pilz: The accusation that I would have a black and blue Presidency, I reject it with all my determination. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] You will receive a further call for order. I should like to point out that the Minutes state, Mr President, that at the time when someone said to you before some meetings that you were corrupt, there was also a call for an order. It is therefore quite in line with the Rules of Procedure. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on Mr Moser's request for the setting up of a committee of inquiry. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – The request is rejected. Debates of the European Parliament Deimek, ladies and gentlemen, on the establishment of a committee of inquiry. Whoever stands up for it, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Debates of the European Parliament If you support this request, I ask him for a sign. – The application does not find a majority and is rejected. [[17:13:56]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-13-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00116_d7e15254	I am still announcing that in today's meeting of the Independents' Amendment 1659/A(E) has been tabled. Questions 9229/J to 9233/J were also raised. The next meeting of the National Council on business communications and allocations will be convened at 5:14 a.m., which is immediately after this meeting. This meeting is closed.
