ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e3610	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen! I would ask you to take your seats and open the meeting. I can give you two brief information. First: Thank you very much for the Wald-Holz-Papier platform, which today points out the importance of the forest for Austria all day in the column hall on the occasion of the International Year of the Forest. If you haven't seen that yet, you might want to make a short trip there someday during the day. Secondly, I am very grateful to Austria's cancer aid, which, in cooperation with us, with Parliament, already – and many of you already carry the Pink Ribbon – on the International Breast Cancer Day on 1st. - October's reference. - Yes, sir. Thank you once again! [[General condolences.]] The official protocols of 116 and 117. Meeting of 13. In September 2011, the Parliament's management remained inconvenient and undisputed. As prevented, Members of Parliament are reported Auer, Mag. Fuhrmann, Ing. Hofer, Mag. Jarmer, Dr. Königshofer and Dr. Glawischnig-Piesczek. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e3661	For this meeting, the Federal Chancellery on the representation of members of the Federal Government made the following statement: Federal Chancellor Werner Faymann is represented by the Federal Minister for Education, Arts and Culture Dr. Claudia Schmied and the Federal Minister for European and International Affairs Dr. Michael Spindelegger by the State Secretary at the Federal Ministry of European and International Affairs Dr. Wolfgang Waldner. I also announce the representation of members of the Federal Government who are present in another Member State of the European Union as follows: The Federal Minister for Women and Public Service Gabriele Heinisch-Hosek is represented by the Federal Minister for Labour, Social Affairs and Consumer Protection Rudolf Hundstorfer. [[09:08:46]] Angelobung
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e3727	As in the 116. A meeting was announced by the Federal Electoral Authority to inform the honourable Member that: Maria Rauch-Kallat waived her mandate. Ms Christine Marek was appointed to the National Council in her place. Since the election permit is already in place and the said person is present in the house, I will immediately make their fishing observation. After reading the vow formula by writing, the new mandater will have to do her fishing with the words “I promise”. Please, Mrs. Mag. Lohfeyer.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e3766	“They will be vowed unbreakable fidelity of the Republic of Austria, constant and full observation of the constitutional laws and all other laws and conscientious fulfilment of your obligations.”
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e3785	I promise.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e3800	I warmly welcome the new Members in our midst. [[General condolences.]] I announce that the ORF will transfer the current hour and the current European hour to ORF 2. TW 1 will also forward the meeting live until the end of the session. [[09:09:50]] Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e3830	We arrive at the current hour with the theme: “Quality and performance for Austrian universities and universities” First of all, Mrs Mag. Cortolezis defeat. I would draw attention to the fact that the speaking time is 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e3858	Madam President. Dear viewers! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) We are in an economic and socially important design phase. The international financial and economic crisis requires rapid, new approaches to policy, economy and society. In this context, the Austrians expect us to design future-oriented framework conditions. And one thing is out of the question: Education and science are the best prerequisites for maintaining our prosperity, creating jobs and enabling economic growth. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Moser: At the same time, you starve her out!]] Many of our internationally recognized scientists, many of our motivated, committed and capable students now expect solutions from us. What would keep populist election promises? – Our universities would slip into mediocrity. This must be avoided. That is why we need an overall approach, we need solutions, we do not need populist maintenance of past measures. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We always follow the cutting off of our universities in international comparisons with a smiling and crying eye. With a smiling eye, because our universities have excellent results despite international unusual conditions, but with a crying eye, because they are not really competitive internationally due to our framework conditions. That is why we need the courage to take new ways to take new measures. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In the cinema and football stadium, it is obvious that only as many cards are available as there are seats. [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: I already know that!]] There can be no need for students to sit in overcrowded audiences every day at universities without any capacity limits. It is a fact, however, that every European, every European in Austria can study with the current legislation without making a financial contribution to it. Mr. Federal Minister Dendegle has therefore presented a new overall concept, which is Europe-based, which brings Austria into the future and which gives us the opportunity to create modern, future-oriented framework conditions for the students and for the scientists. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We welcome the students from all over the world, but we want them to make their contribution to a study in Austria according to their possibilities. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The Austrian People's Party has always clearly positioned itself. Our society needs internationally competitive universities, our economy needs strong universities, Austria needs strong universities. That is why we have a three-pillar model that needs to be discussed today to increase the performance and quality of our universities, to create fair conditions, to be implemented throughout Europe and to comply with the European law criteria. This three-pillar model first provides more additional means. In very promising negotiations with Mrs. Federal Minister Fekter, Federal Minister Däderle is planning an additional university billion for universities in the next performance period, i.e. more budget with more quality. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Secondly, this three-pillar model provides a socially just study contribution model. “Social justice” means that every Austrian student, every Austrian student who is socially in need, is not to be prevented from studying due to lack of economic conditions. The study aid is intended to be extended, but those concerned are also to make a corresponding contribution. This applies to Austrian students, which applies to European students, which applies to students coming from outside the EU. We need a socially just study contribution model that supports the children of Austrians according to social criteria, but requires a small contribution from all so that the taxpayers of Austria do not make a contribution to the children of the oil sheikh who can afford to study in Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] With the university billion and the study contribution model, the Austrian People's Party shows that it does not abandon our universities but wants to invest in the future and create fair conditions. The students from all over the world, as I have said, are welcome to us, but the criterion of studying in Austria should not be because everything is free of charge here. The criterion for studying in Austria should be because we have such excellent, internationally competitive courses of study. This should be the criterion of coming to Austria, not because it is free here. We have nothing free to forgive! We have quality to give, and for this quality it is important to make a small contribution. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The most recent OECD study has once again shown that Austria is at the top third in terms of the total cost of a completed academic, a completed academic. The Austrian taxpayer pays €150 000 for a complete academic, for a completed academic. This is a top performance, which is a top offer for our academics! That is why it is important to us that a small contribution is also made by the students. So: One billion from the state, up to 500 € per semester from the students and expansion of the study aid to reach specifically those with social support measures that we want to achieve. All of Europe is welcome in Austria, the whole world is welcome in Austria, but the quality of our studies should be decisive for someone to come! One last sentence: It is only right and cheap that students – according to their possibilities – make 500 € per semester if the universities provide this – it is in the autonomy of universities – because each master builder in Austria pays 12 000 € from the private pocket for his training, and a student would pay 3,000 € for a Bachelor's degree. Therefore, the level of this contribution that students in Austria should make would be only fair and cheap. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Not a categoric no-sagen, but a yes we need now! Ladies and gentlemen, today you have the opportunity to listen authentically to the model of the Federal Minister of Youth and to adopt your own populist election promises. Decide for the future! Decide for our universities! Declare You're for Austria! Jump over your shadow, because we need light, we need sun, we need future for our universities. Let us give our Minister of State the opportunity to decide and implement his ideas here in this House! Austria is a small country that needs to pool its diversity. The university plan allows us to do this. He foresees a cooperation of universities, a greater contribution by universities to greater effectiveness. But we need contributions from all, the state, the private and our universities.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e3971	Mr Däderle spoke on a preliminary opinion. The speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e3992	Madam President. High house! Dear colleague Karl! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The Austrian universities have quality and bring performance to summarize the general topics of today's current hour. Their quality is absolutely comparable internationally, and their performance is the same. Unfortunately, in the public debate, only the problems and not the strengths of the Austrian universities and colleges are mentioned. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The main problems that misrepresent this image to the public are the financing problems and problems of the mass compartments. In both cases, I can offer solutions within the framework of an overall concept, which could result in the light of Austrian universities and universities as brightly as it should and can shine due to its strength. One reason for this strength is the University Law 2002. This law has become dissuasive throughout Europe, I know as a member of the University, as one who at the beginning also had a certain scepticism about this law. I have learned that this was a royal path that is still being imitated throughout Europe. Even in countries that we have always meant that they are ahead of us in these fields, he is still imitated. The core of this law is the autonomy of universities. It is the clear idea that you move the decisions where you know best what is good for an institution, what is right for them, that you set good conditions and that within these conditions the institutions can develop themselves. That was the key to success. And to this success I can congratulate this House, which has passed this law. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. New builder.]] However, this autonomous development also means that there is a need for a comprehensive control because, of course, every single institution looks primarily at itself, the donor, the state that still has the largest share of the funding of the tertiary area in Austria, but must be careful to use its resources efficiently, wisely and forward-lookingly. That's why it needs a university plan. This university plan must have a strategy, it must implement a strategy, a vision. My vision of the further development of Austrian universities looks like this: I do not want, as it is internationally the trend in some countries, to develop together in one, two strong, internationally shiny research universities and several of them teaching universities. I want to see in Austria that several very strong universities in research and teaching continue to have the highest level of international distribution across the whole federal territory. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This, however, requires that the funds be used very specifically, it is also due to the fact that there is a qualitative expansion in particular and that the increased demand for tertiary courses and tertiary graduates I see, which I accept and which I want to comply with, is primarily served through the colleges of higher education. In other words, we need to develop universities more qualitatively and in terms of both quality and quantity. This then leads to a distribution between the two institutions, which corresponds to international circumstances, especially the circumstances we have in our neighbouring country Switzerland. However, the university plan cannot be ordered directly from above. It can only be carried out and carried out in consultation with and in coordination with these high schools in a form with autonomous high schools. Therefore, the university plan provides for the establishment of a university conference, in which representatives of the Ministry, representatives of the university conference, i.e. the universities, and representatives of the colleges sit at a table and work together to implement this plan. It's a permanent process and not one that's about to end. We are now in the process of drawing up this plan. We have a great support in the expert commission, convened by my predecessor, who is sitting next to me, who has taken a very sharp and very precise look at our higher education system from the outside and will support us with many very concrete considerations in the development and implementation of the university plan. One essential point that the experts have mentioned is the fact that we have very many inactive students. We have some 285,000 students at the universities and nearly 100,000 students who spend only a very small part of their working time at the university. That is, if we want more academics, we must try to activate the very inactive students. We can do this by increasing the liability there, so that the feeling is that I have to turn to more of my studies, I have to take more time to study to get to a degree faster or even to a degree. Then we increase what we should increase, namely the number of graduates at our universities. How can you increase this liability? How can one even hide the two dark clouds I first spoke of, financing problems and mass compartments, from the university sky, so that it shines as it should shine? – One can do so by addressing the problem of mass compartments on the one hand and solving the financing problems on the other. The problem of mass subjects can be addressed by removing capacity limits where universities simply no longer have space and no more capacity for teachers. This can only be done by providing access schemes. These access schemes do not mean that people from the university want to lock out, they only mean that they are pointed out that in a study they ask for, there may be limited capacities, and they are recommended to look around and consider studying something else where there is still room. However, access rules are needed in these mass compartments. The university plan provides for such a measure in the context of the study site financing. On the other hand, the funding of the study site is part of a larger capacity-oriented university funding, where one attempts to convert the university's financing system to this capacity over several service periods, i.e. over several years. But then you have to, necessarily so, enter such boundaries in the mass compartments. So you can solve this one problem, and you don't have to read about overcrowded audiences, shifted exams, unexecuted courses. Then this problem is solved, and correctly solved. Because it's not right for us to think of students sitting in overcrowded audiences, and students who want to study, they could study everything they want, and there would be enough space, sufficient capacity and good quality everywhere. This is a fraud against young people, both those who sit inside and those who want to enter. We must save them those lies. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The problem of higher education funding is also solvable. We know universities, universities never have enough money in the end because they can invest infinitely, in expensive research equipment, in high-class professorships. When we compare the Austrian universities with the world's top universities, with which they always have to be compared in rankings, we see that they are partially underfinanced by the twentyfold. In view of this fact, their performance is absolutely remarkable. It is actually amazing how much they do in view of their not very good funding. However, we want to improve this funding. In this House, the Minister of Finance announced at the beginning of her work that she had to take a strict consolidation course and wanted her to take this strict course, however, two In addition, it is important to note that there is a need for research and training in the field of education, research and training. And the Minister of Finance is speaking. As already said, it is very likely that we will be able to provide an additional university billion for universities 2013 to 2015. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] With these additional billions we can solve the most urgent financing problems of universities and universities. However, we will not pour out these billions with the casting can, but we will be granted them as part of the implementation of the higher education plan in such a way that it also has a controlling effect, especially in the sense of synergies, of cooperations, of voting, of concentration of research strengths, of profile. All of this can be created with this money and with appropriate incentive systems. This university billion is also a very important step on a path, which you, honourable Members of the House, have decided unanimously here in 2007, namely on the way to the 2-percent target by 2020. In order to achieve this objective, it is necessary, on the one hand, to exert the public hand – we are strict – but it also requires additional funds from the private sector. We know that in Austria, only 0.1 percent of these 2% come from the private sector. This is only half of what is going on in the EU on private money in this area. It is only one fifth of what is going on in the OECD section in the tertiary sector. In other words, if we want to continue successfully on the 2-percent path, we urgently need to make private funding available to universities. One way to manage private funds is to make study contributions. I have presented a model which, as I believe, also eliminates the biggest concerns about study contributions, which are very serious to me and which I consider important, namely that no one should be able to study for financial reasons and that no one is allowed to meet this fate because of social aspects. Everyone and everyone in Austria should be able to study if the appropriate inclination and suitability are given. That is why I have presented a model which takes all these problems into account and which, due to its very differentiated possibilities up to the amount of 3 000 €, which, once in a professional life, can be paid back relatively easily, gives everyone the opportunity to study. That is why I ask those who are still skeptical about giving up this scepticism, to follow my argumentation and to agree to this model of study contributions. Then we have a harmonious mix of public and private funds, which will help to implement the decision you, honourable Members, have taken here unanimously, namely, 2% of GDP by 2020. Then the universities will be so financed that they can increase their quality and they will be equipped with the framework conditions in such a way that they can withstand any international comparison. They are already doing so in many cases now, with the few where they have not yet done so, we need action. I am willing to see and address this need for action within the framework of the overall plan of higher education. I'm asking you to help me. I ask you to go with me on this path. It is a path that is extremely important for the future of Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e4122	I draw attention to the fact that the speaking time of all other participants at the current hour according to § 97a Abs. 6 of the Rules of Procedure shall not exceed 5 minutes. Mrs Magnette has now come to speak. Kuntzl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e4149	Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Mr Federal Minister, I would like to express my strong support for the fact that you are genuinely trying to make the necessary money to set up the necessary budgetary resources for universities with the Minister for Finance and that you have also made a commitment to maintaining the diversity of the study offer at the Austrian universities. These are two very crucial and important points which I would like to stress and highlight as very positive. As far as the question of tuition fees is concerned, it is actually not the case that social democracy would have a commitment to vote. Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, you will remember that, together with other parties, we abolished the tuition fees before the election. [[Abg. Rädler: This has nothing to do with it!]] Obviously it is a question of how – I am sorry – the EIAs can still not accept that this decision has been taken against the votes of the EIAs. This should be an essential driver in the intention to reintroduce these tuition fees. However, ladies and gentlemen, we are concerned that we do not want to introduce new obstacles, new financial barriers to higher education. The times are insecure enough, and we must be very careful to deal with where we introduce new burdens. All that we know is how necessary it is to have more well-trained young people in this country, it is not at all desirable for us to introduce a new education tax, an educational tax that would, in the form of study fees, mainly affect medium-sized families, given the low income that many of these families have, indeed, hit hard. I do not know why the ÖVP is focusing on a tax that would meet the medium-sized families to a large extent. Why don't you help us get the money for the budget where there is money where money is available? Why do you not support us more strongly in introducing capital taxes, in order to get the money where it is for rich people, where the current tax situation is very unfair and where it would be much fairer to raise the lever accordingly? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] And, Mr Federal Minister, even if you say that your model is socially balanced: We looked at this very carefully. The model has a small tarcap on it. A little bit of a social fund, a little bit of an improvement in the funding of studies, but not so that this would really be significant. So it would continue to be a little “tropferlical ” at comprehensive study fees, all of which feel a bit. Let us take a look at the situation, the financial situation of the families, from which students come! We must keep in mind that in the meantime – and this is a success! – almost half of the students come from a parent house where parents have no matura and a correspondingly low income that a quarter of the students have acute money care that already two thirds of the students work next to the study, on average 20 hours a week. That is, they are actually already studying next to work. And only every eighth gets a scholarship today, and that's not particularly high. That is to say, to give these families an additional education tax, which is not in our sense, and that therefore continues to reject social democracy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr. Federal Minister, it is right that we need an overall concept for Austrian higher education. For many years now, we have been calling for a higher education plan to identify precisely these strategic options, in which efficiency improvements are also to be identified. [[Abg. Ing. You're in government! - There's no such thing as that!]] [[Call the FPÖ: Why don't you do it?]] This is missing for an offensive university policy.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e4221	Mrs Franz is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e4242	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Spectators! Yes, our universities will soon open their gates again, and above average many students will fill the halls. The high number of students is very pleasing in themselves, but our universities are facing great challenges, but they are supposed to produce excellent top forces for the future of our country. Quality is needed, and we need a new university concept, more money and better control instruments. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] So we need best framework conditions to enable more students to study. It must not be possible for a student to attend today's Uni doesn't have an examination date or there's no room in the hearing room at all. [[Abg. Neubauer: For this you have withdrawn the family allowance!]] Now, Federal Minister Dägele has presented us with a comprehensive performance and quality package for the universities. First: The higher education plan will be implemented. Standards and quality are to be strengthened by a More cooperation in teaching, research and infrastructure. This also provides planning security. Secondly, there should be more resources. We have heard that there is a billion higher education for the years 2013 to 2015, and there are good negotiations with our Minister of Finance. Thirdly, A new study contribution model is on the table as a compromise proposal, but private funds, which represent only 1.0% of GDP in Austria, are to be significantly increased. They are five times as high in the OECD average. The Constitutional Court also calls for clear action – clear action steps of politics. The new study contribution system presented by the Federal Minister for Youth about two weeks ago is probably one of the most social study contribution models Europe has ever seen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The universities are given the opportunity to set the study fees autonomously up to a maximum of € 500. This model is already known and tested. However, universities are also given the opportunity not to levy tuition fees from some students, such as students who have little financial resources available to spend hours or quite accommodating them. This is in the autonomy of the universities and is thus a revolutionary advance of our Federal Minister. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The model also provides for the following exceptions in the study contributions: for all study aid beneficiaries, for all students in mobility programmes. There are exceptions for students who are ill for a long time. There are exceptions for students who have a child to care for, for students with disabilities and for students who are on leave. This scheme applies to all EU and EEA citizens as well as all Austrian citizens. Citizens from third countries, except, of course, developing countries, can apply for a cost-effective study contribution, so that the Austrian taxpayer does not have to finance the study abroad. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This is social justice! And I wonder, Is it socially fair for students or their parents who could contribute to a free study, especially since they can expect higher incomes as academics? Is it socially fair if the working population, that is, the Billa salesman, has the children of the upper 80,000, as our Federal Chancellor has to say, to finance the study? [[Call to the Greens: That's why we want a property tax!]] Is it socially fair if young families often have to pay high contributions for kindergartens, while established families then let their children study for free? – But this comparison does not come from me, but from the head of the state, Burgstaller. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Study contributions are therefore not an obstacle to social weakness. This shows us very clearly the specialist universities: The social mix is much better at universities of higher education who are subject to contributions. Study contributions have improved the system, because 56 percent of students reported in 2002 that study contributions have led to a reduction in the degree. The drop-out quota has fallen. Study contributions are therefore an effective control instrument. Of course, they must be organised in such a way that they are accompanied by a good system of aid, and this is also planned. Because it's quite clear to us: No student may be excluded from studies for financial reasons. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Let us therefore increase the liability by means of study contributions! This also increases the quality of our universities and means social justice. Ladies and gentlemen, especially the SPÖ! Let's build a bridge! Let us take responsibility for our youth and for their future in Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e4325	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Deimek's word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e4346	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Today we are to discuss quality and performance for universities. This discussion is also good and useful when it is held shortly before the start of the study year. However, the title “quality and performance” is very questionable. As a technician, allow me to say simply regarding “performance”: That's work in time. Ladies and gentlemen! Time: 25 years of government participation, eleven of which are the minister of science – this is a relatively long time. And how does work look? - It's worse for the university. The University of Vienna has dropped to 137th place. [[Hö-Ruf at the FPÖ.]] The student/teacher ratio got worse. We have less money available at universities. And the Students are also worse, so bad that they have now, some time ago, taken to mean strike. And, please, let's not hold this discussion under the motto, as it is sometimes done among the population, that we say: We've studied enough anyway! De facto, it is that way – and, Mr Federal Minister, you have also said it: We have a lack of academics. We have a lack of graduates. And that's the work that gives in total a bad performance – at too much time. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr. Federal Minister, your plan in honour, but if you look at the parliamentary materials, there is a 12-point plan of our science spokesman, President Graf. There are enough points inside that can be implemented 1 to 1. What has the government done, what have the government parties and, above all, the EIAs done with it? What was her performance?, as it's so beautiful. – Reject and delay! Don't even discuss! – Please, we had more students this year, or more students, more maturants, in Austria, we had two matura years in Germany, and the entrance phase, the recording phase was completely “forgave”, as you have already said. Mr Federal Minister, if you say a university billion, then we want clear statements, and not just clear statements, but above all clear actions. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] So far, there are only ideas and a plan. But if you listen to Mrs Cortolezis-Schlager's speech from the ÖVP, then the most important thing about this university plan is the tuition fees. And if you hear the exceptions hereafter: Please, we are discussing a couple of billions that go to Greece, because the eyelashes are not being sucked – but the few billions, maximum that can get out of there with these exceptions, are being discussed a lot. And they're supposed to save the universities?- Oh, my God! – You don't believe that yourself, Minister of State! [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I am not prepared to raise a debate on envy and populism here, because it is only about tuition fees, it is not discussed at the same time about the rectors' salaries – but it is necessary – it is not discussed about administrative costs at universities, it is not discussed about university staff working hours, and it is not discussed at all about savings at universities. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But about the tuition fees! They're supposed to save all of this. And I warn you, Minister of State: Don't go to a dangerous terrain, the terrain we have at the colleges. That's all nice: There we also pay tuition fees, where we also have a lot of tertiary funds from the economy. And where does that lead? Do you know the quality of the graduates of the FHs? Do you know the throughput rate? I now deliberately call them positive “performing rate”. Do we want to do this at the Austrian universities that there the level of graduates is falling? Do we also want to have no more research-led teaching? – That can be it all, please, really not. And that's why I say quite clearly: Mr Federal Minister, we support you if you want to implement the Uni billions – you have all our strength behind it – but no to a populism and envy debate on the back of the students!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e4437	Mr Grünewald has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e4473	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister and Mr. Federal Minister! High house! I believe that as long as we cannot agree on what we understand as quality, any discussion will end in any way. And if I hear now that cinema and opera should ultimately determine university policy, and talk about oil-sheikhs with their countless children and women who still need to finance poor Billa vendors, I have to say: Billa-sellers don't deserve so much that their taxes will finance this system, not essential. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Call the SPÖ: That's right!]] I also believe that universities and colleges have many serious problems, and students are not the main problem. And I find it embarrassing to say that students who want to study and cannot, are the university’s problem, and if you solve it, everything is, so to speak, “in butter. ” I would like to have more quality, but let us now look not only at the quality of universities and educational institutions, but also at the quality of our debates: What are we supposed to do here in five minutes more important than a small flashlight or a few stenographic sentences? - That's not good quality. And if in committees 28 TOPs from the field of science are shodded down in three hours, that is not good and does not speak for quality either. If it is bureaucratic to bring experts into the committees in order to be informed to form to enter a dialogue, it is not a quality. I would therefore very much ask you, Madam President, to look at us, to see the quality of the committees, where you have the impression that the parties are sending here after Peter Rapp's lucky wheel principle and to sit inside and say what their boss commands them. It can't be. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I can remember I was once invited by Busek to hold such an Impulse Unit in Alpbach, and one has chosen the title: ‘Mass University or Elite?’ This has bothered me to put an artificial cut here: Either Mass University – then no elite at all, and nothing is good – or: Hurra, the elite! Would you have been at the Academy of Sciences and its ceremony in this year, where your outstanding scientist Professor Lutz, a demographic, gave a lecture on education! I'd like to hear it here. Maybe you believe him! He says that broad education has enormous effects on health, GDP, age of life, scope for action and emancipation of people. And he says in front of the honourable society quite a lot of very conservative people: Individual prestige objects or elite devices cannot induce this effect of broad formation. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] It needs wider access! And the Commissioner for Education, Vassiliou, says that 35 percent of the jobs of the future will need academic training. And then on to the quality: Then an unworthy range is raised about the question: What is academic training? Before television, my colleague Cortolezis-Schlager explained to me that cooks already have an academic education in some countries. – That’s all Humbug! I really want to define that. And to put professional students or HTLs, so to speak, on a matura-like basis and then even on a higher level, this is not usual in the OECD. And now to the rankings. I'm right about daughters. In these rankings, you should know, partly the salaries of university teachers, their working conditions and all that. And that also determines the Austrian position. Some contributions to the Industrial Union are not only of quality. When I discussed with my good acquaintance and perhaps also friend Riemer and he asked me the question with reproach: How many Austrian universities are among the first 200?, I asked him the question: Can you tell me how many Austrian businesses are among the first 200? Then he said: That's right! – So there is a need to argue with caution. I think you should want more, but that's where it needs very clear information. When Kratky says in a discussion with Federal Minister Dägenle – and that is what Parliament thinks differently – that national priorities have not yet worked in any state of the earth, that bottom-up is the right promotion and should also remain the essential support, but here three-quarters of all projects – internationally positive projects! – must be rejected because the money is not there, and if the research fund says Austria is a country of half-day researchers, because people are hired only half-dayly, then this is a poverty certificate. To conclude: I really ask everyone – also from the presidential downwards, all sectors and all people – to: Let us look at the adventure education and see that we make a qualitative contribution in order to satisfy universities, researchers and students! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e4532	Now comes Mr Mag. Widmann speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e4553	Madam President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Quality and performance for the universities in Austria – no na net!, you might think. But I have the suspicion that we are discussing an important and right issue here, but the result that this government has delivered so far does not make me very confident that the study conditions at the universities are really getting better. We are also discussing a lot of scandals in Austria, we are also discussing the Greek aid currently in the House, and do you know what all this has in common with the situation found by the students in Austria? – It is a scandal as these young people in Austria must study: at mass universities, often under adverse conditions, which leave the conditions for a good study missing and do not allow such a thing. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] And it's a scandal if we take 2.3 billion euros of tax money into Greece in two weeks, but a few million are missing from the university. [[Call the BZÖ: This is unheard of!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, those who make such a policy must not be surprised if people no longer share this policy. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I am also convinced that in some of the principles he has taken over from the BZÖ, Minister Tegenle is quite right, for example when it comes to study requirements that need to be improved, or when it comes to tuition fees, which are also expressions of family benefit. The counterthesis, which apparently represents the left block, reads: Everything free, mass study, lots of foreigners also in Austria, without quality, according to the motto: Do what you want! – Nothing comes out, and you can see that too. In Austria, the final rate is 20 percent. [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: That's not true!]] Of five students who start, one is about to finish. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: This is stupid!]] The OECD cut is 40 percent. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Graf.]] Mr. Col., take a look at it. I can prove this to you! That's not a theme. That's fact. Many stay on the track, and for this, this left block, in which the FPÖ is also involved, is fully responsible. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The colleague of the Greens has referred to the performance and the salaries of the rectors, and the FPÖ has also mentioned this. Mr Van der Bellen! As far as I'm aware, you're a university representative of the city of Vienna. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: What is that?]] And if I am informed, you will receive €220 000 per year from the city of Vienna, from Mr Häupl and from the SPÖ for this activity or non-activity. What's your performance, Mr. Van der Bellen? What's your performance? - We don't know! We don't know. Is the party financing? Is this corruption? [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: This is corruption!]] Is this the next scandal to be revealed here in Austria, ladies and gentlemen? [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We need to look at these points in a proper and just discussion, which you are always using from the Greens, in fact, to show and reveal. [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] That is why – and I come to the next issue – I suspect that the whole is a mandatory programme of the ÖVP to distract from the real problems in the ÖVP. In Vienna, she is already breaking down anyway, and the surveys are not exactly the best. That is why I believe that the result will be a failure. Take a look at the University of Innsbruck: What did you do? Colleague Kickl of FPÖ, I don't think it's funny when 42 percent of students are foreigners! [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: That's where the South Tyroleans belong!Unknown term type: "%s".?]] Not that we are against foreign students or anything! On the contrary! But it is about proportionality, ladies and gentlemen, and it is also about who pays for it. And I am particularly pleased that the Scientific Spokesman of FPÖ, Mr Graf, smiles at this. 42 percent of foreigners in Innsbruck, and the Scientific Spokesman of FPÖ smiles at this. That's not the way we're going from the BZÖ! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Therefore, we need very clear access arrangements, restrictions or, at the best, European agreements, in order to be able to remove adequate contributions from foreign students. This is performance orientation, and this is also an instrument for control. That means in the end: We need new ways to achieve academic success, and there is no path to fair study fees, coupled with socially just scholarships. The topic of funding for study places was: It's important to do the right thing and to do it. But this is also an emergency funding, not only in 2013 in the election campaign, Mr. Minister! Now the Unis need money. Now we need 250 to 300 million! In total, we need a billion in the next four years, because who knows if you are still in the government after the next elections! We also need an end to the pointless pre-registration. This one was a complete flop. You should get rid of that! They also receive support from the BZÖ in the field of higher education when it comes to quality when it comes to structural reforms when it comes to creating real good conditions for students. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] Madam President, I have come to the conclusion. At the end of this period, I do not want Mr. Faymann, Mr. Däderle or Mr. Spindelegger to ask each other in the government: Where was your performance in higher education policy?
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e4716	Now comes Mrs Mag. Rudas. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e4738	Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to address my previous speaker. Unfortunately, however, he did not talk about Unipolitik, and that is why I have to deal with it. Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear spectators at home! Minister Däderle said something very correct, that, unfortunately, the image of universities suffers, especially during this debate. I too wonder what today an 18-year-old thinks, if she has just graduated, wants to study and today hears in the debate that the conditions are disastrous and she needs a ticket like for opera or cinema before she comes to university, and that we must be careful not to come too many to universities and there must be restrictions and fees. – I don’t think that’s motivating! All over the world, universities, but also politics for students. On the other hand, we are discussing how to prevent students from coming to university! That is why, I think, before we get into the debate, we should ask ourselves whether we want more students at all. . Let us say how my colleague from the FPÖ and the Greens says: Yes, we want more students! Yes, we want more academics! But I think we will not continue in the whole debate until there is no agreement here. That is why, as I believe, it is important to discuss the objectives of university policy. Where do we want to lead our colleges? Why should the whole world envy us with regard to our graduates? How do we manage more women to go to Technical University? – It is important to deal with such issues instead of considering how to make it difficult to access and stop students, and if it is only by constantly talking our universities down. [[Abg. Kickl: Maybe the chancellor should advertise!]] Ladies and gentlemen! What is the state of play? We have well over 100 compartments, and ten of them are overcrowded. – That is, this discussion about access restrictions is also a bit of an alibi discussion. Only ten subjects are overcrowded, far more than 100 subjects, on the other hand, are looking for students and advertising around them. In Leoben you drive the bus on the side of the university and try to get young people for the university. So it's only about ten subjects. There is an emergency paragraph, which is not applicable because the universities do not agree on a request. That is why I would ask that there be no alibi discussions here. We know that academic unemployment is 2%. The higher the degree of education, the lower the probability of unemployment, and the higher the probability of a young person having a job for a lifetime. That means that our goal must be to give young people this opportunity to take a higher education degree and to study at the university! Again: That is why I do not understand the discussion that is being held here by those who think for days and nights about how to dissuade young people from going to college! - That's not our job! Our job is to motivate young people to complete and continue their education, and to create the conditions for it here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That is why I want all of us to make a change of strategy here, and I am therefore pleased that the Minister has announced that a higher education plan should not be drawn up from above, but with the involvement of the parties involved. [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] In other words, we clarify the questions: What is the goal of our university policy? How do we manage to comply with the 2% budget we have decided on? What does the corresponding level plan look like? How can we get universities to advertise students and thus create a financing model that goes away from global contributions and provides flexible amounts to universities depending on the number of students? [[Intrusions of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] We must clarify how we manage to fill the orientation phases that we have decided to fill with life so that young people really know that there are several subjects and not just the ten that are overcrowded. Ladies and gentlemen! I myself studied with and without tuition fees – and it hasn't changed anything. There was no difference. [[Abg. Dr. Bartenstein: What? That's a nonsense!]] It was just as crowded as before. The study conditions have not changed! That's why I appeal again. The trend is towards the abolition of tuition fees. The best universities are universities worldwide with no tuition fees. I believe that we should follow the international trend and keep in mind that the tuition fees are not introduced. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you, including colleagues from the ÖVP, to: We need to be careful not to get a really angry generation. [[Abg. Dr Bartenstein: We don't let ourselves sell for stupid!]] We deny young people the rights that the older generation had. I think there's some Kreisky kids sitting here, so some people who could study because of Kreisky. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Where?]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Who?]] [[Further calls to the BZÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Don't deny your children what Kreisky has enabled you to do. Kreisky has opened the doors to the university. I ask you: Don't shut the doors! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e4873	Mr Mayer is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e4897	Federal Minister! Now you can choose it: Our Kreisky kid says: We need more students! [[Abg. Grosz: Is the child married or unmarried?]] Mr Deimek says: We need more graduates! – If I can choose it, I am with Mr Deimek, because it is important and right that we need more graduates who are also needed in the labour market. If you are on the go as a constituency representative and are talking to managers of small and medium-sized enterprises, you will hear: That with studying is right and beautiful, but actually I need more apprentices and skilled workers. But they all go to college and study because it costs nothing. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That's a mistake! In other words, education everywhere costs money, and something has to be taken into consideration in the various areas. It's hard to believe: My son, for example, goes to the fourth grade primary school. He's got to make the choice what he's doing afterwards. He is interested in a HBLA with a particular specialist orientation. There he is told: We have 60 places to award and 150 applications. If you don't reach at least an average of 1.2 or 1.3, you won't be able to start with us! So there is already an access restriction or some kind of numerus clausus in such a banal area. And that's the point! It can't be that education everywhere costs something and a contribution is required and everything should be free at universities! Mrs Rudas said: What has become better through tuition fees? – That’s where I have to ask the question: What improved when the tuition fees were abolished? It occurred that universities once again lacked €150 million in the budget, which was intended. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] Another example from practice: A master agricultural training costs €1 800, which the person himself has to pay. He has to sacrifice time and attend courses for a whole year. And at the end of the day, he will probably no longer receive for his product, and the managed land and land we are no longer worth. But a graduate of a university, a completed academic, can expect that in the professional world he is probably one of the better earners later. And that is why it is more than fair to make a study contribution, even if in the future it will only be – as I say now – a maximum of € 500. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is not surprising, therefore, that in most surveys on tuition fees, a large part of the population agrees that they should be reintroduced. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I'd like to hold on to something: The National Council meeting in September 2008 was really not a star hour! I wasn't here in the high house at the time, I watched it on the TV, and I thought, What's that? Is this a bazaar or a vote buy? Everyone has served his clients, and at that time the huge mistake was also committed with the abolition of the tuition fees, which, as everyone says, should not have happened. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It's always being talked about by the university billions. This has been demanded by almost all political groups for a long time, and it will come with our commitment and the commitment of the Federal Minister of Youth. But I say: No fresh money without reforms! That is why the package of services and quality announced by the Minister is certainly very welcome. I mean, You can also demand some performance from the students, that is not wrong! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] But you can already figure out that of course your youth organisations will start to storm again, and so some university occupations are already preprogrammed. – I remember how it happened last time when the hearing room was occupied, and finally, after the space, when the security forces bowed out the people, often no longer knew whether it was some sander from the street or a student. And I would also like to speak very much of the damage that has been done. This amounted to several thousand euros or, as I believe, several hundred thousand euros, and this damage had to be paid once again by taxpayers and not by those who had done it! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In view of that, I already wonder: Is that supposed to be gilled? Should that be the spiritual elite of tomorrow? - I don't think so! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kogler.]] At the end of the day, it is about the appreciation of the educational institution. It's about making optimal use of the places and motivating the inactive students to do more, because it's terrifying to hear that one third of the students are non-examinational. I think that this abuse has to be resolved. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In conclusion, however, I would like to draw attention to the social component of a study contribution: Indeed, the social weaknesses of our society, study aids and students who need to care for a child will be excluded and disease-related restrictions that must be taken into account, and so on. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] Finally, I would like to point out that an income limit for study fees would also burden the middle class accordingly.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e5004	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e5026	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. Federal Minister! It is a question of quality and, ultimately, of the performance in which this discussion is now under way. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). I don't care much about this subject otherwise, but I'd like to hold on to it very well: If you call South Tyroleans who study in Innsbruck foreigners, then this is your problem, but not the problem we have! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Widmann.]] I am glad that many South Tyroleans are studying in Innsbruck! – It is obviously not you! Mr. Federal Minister, you are enchanted! You are truly enraged, because we have had the hope that as a man from practice, as a rector now occupied by this ministry, you will finally bring another note to the discussion! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] What I heard from you today, however, I could have heard from the press speaker of your Federal Ministry! The Discussion is not going on at all with you! In the end, there are, in other words, two themes that read: Study contributions and access restrictions. You, Mr Federal Minister, are obviously, like your predecessor and your predecessor, and like the entire ÖVP, there is no longer any advice-resistant and no longer ready to think in alternatives. – I always say: Whoever as a politician is no longer willing to think through and argue about alternatives, has missed his job! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] They no longer call it “student contributions ” and “access restrictions”, but they say: There are two problems: Financing and bulk compartments. – In the end, you want to introduce access restrictions, consciously continue a crash course at Austrian universities, and the lower number of students will want to take off. – This is not a perspective that a minister or policy should indicate! Get to the bottom of it! Why do we have more students? Our goal is – and in this respect there is a common understanding of all five parties, there are enough applications here in the house from 2000 and 2001 – to have 300 000 students at universities in the medium term. It is also our goal to spend two percent of GDP on universities. – These are the goals you are working on! While they increase the number of students in universities, they do not because more students attend the universities, but because they extend the study times by introducing the Baccalaureate, the three-member study after the Bologna process. In the past, eight semesters were studied in most subjects; today the same study with ten semesters is limited in minimum. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Neugebauer.]] Of course it is! With this, you gradually increase the number of students without doing anything and without there being an academic more in the future, by 20 percent. Look at this! They do not look at the birth statistics where you can read that in three to five years, by 25 percent fewer Austrians are 18 years old than in the last five years. In other words, because of the lower number of children we will have in Austria, we will have 20 to 25 percent fewer students. And you must also pay attention to gender equality! You have to give today's generation the same opportunities that a future generation also has, and you don't. You've got enough money. You have even indicated in the request answer that you have 330 million € free to use in your deposit in the ministry. Then finally spend this amount for the universities and do not try to reintroduce new taxes and taxes! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We hear that in Austria, on average, we work for the state for seven months. Seven months – due to the additional wage costs, tax charges, taxes and fees! The ÖVP – I take note – now wants a student family to deliver their income to the state for another eight months. That's not a perspective! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Their international comparisons are all staggering. Everyone! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hornek.]] If you say there are study contributions in the surrounding area, I say: All right, let's start with the tax and tax rate of our neighbouring countries in Austria. We will then also introduce the study contributions! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I don't have a problem with that at all. We have 43.5 percent tax and tax ratio. In no comparable country in the OECD you will find such a high quota – and you want to introduce new fees so that the quota is 45 percent. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] – This is the Entrepreneurship Party and the alleged ÖVP Tax Saving Party?- Oh, my God! That's not all right! Let us talk about equal opportunities for our students and not how we can keep them away from tertiary studies and how we can best cover them! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e5174	Mr Van der Bellen has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e5195	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister, you have rightly said, I believe that there are capacity limits. To deny this is a lie that we should or should spare students. I thought I would agree to this at first glance because I had experience, especially in what it means to study in a so-called mass subject; perhaps I still come to talk about it. On the other hand, Mr Federal Minister, you know, of course, just as well as I do, that the term “capacity” is not a natural science – how am I supposed to say? – God-given quality, but that capacity is, of course, a dependent variable, depending on the financial resources for infrastructure, for rooms, for teachers, for professors, et cetera, et cetera, which are available to a university. This is not to say that the university can adapt passively to any change in demand among students, but we must say that capacity is something we as a politician, as a minister, as a parliament. – I have embarrassingly missed that in your remarks. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. May. Worm.]] I know what it means to study in a mass subject. At the beginning of the 1960s – I have already told you this here in plenary, I think – it was horrible! First seminar: 250 participants, topic: Karl Marx, Adam Smith and anyone else whose name I forgot, and the greatest joke was that I got a good enough, although I didn't understand anything in this so-called pro-seminar. [[Abg. Kickl: Most likely Marx!]] I don't want to believe this experience. The situation then has become striking, no, not striking, slowly better at the times of the black single government towards the end of the 1960s and very quickly under Hertha Firnberg, for me still one of the greatest university reformers of the 20th century. ==References== Minister Dächtele, unlike Mrs Cortolezis-Schlager, you have mentioned the 2-percent target for which the Federal Government has committed itself. 2 per cent of GDP for the tertiary sector by 2020! – But, Minister Däderle, you will count once again! They said, including private funds. That is true, the 2% do not come from the state alone, that is nowhere, not from the Commission report, nowhere, completely right. At present, we stand at 1.3, 1.4 percent of GDP. That is to say, for the tertiary sector, there must currently be a budget of €4 billion above the thumb and/or minus €4 billion, so we lack the 2-percent target of 2 billion per year. 2 billion a year, Minister! Let us be generous in the event that we introduce the study fees, the study fees, or whatever they may be called: Let's say 200 000 students pay net, all pay €500 per semester – that's according to Adam giant € 200 million per year. Let us then generously calculate the 300 million to which you have announced, but which of course are still not established. The Federal Financial Framework, Ladies and gentlemen, we need to change this 300 million to come. But let us assume that the plan will be changed, the 300 million will exist, because the Minister of Finance, which is more important in this case than the Minister of Science, can be convinced that this increase in expenditure is indeed central, then we have 300 million and 200 million from the tuition fees. This still results in a gap of €1.5 billion per year for 2015. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] By 2020, we want to add the remaining 1.5 billion. – What kind of private means do you think of? You still doing this, Mr. Minister? I know there are measles in Austria; Bertalanffy, an Austrian industrialist, has donated a few million € for the Institute of Science and Technology in Gugging. Hannes Androsch, an Austrian industrialist, has donated a lot of money for the Academy of Sciences. But 1.5 billion a year, Minister of State, you will not be able and will not be able to put up with this in a serious way. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] So if you are already talking about lies of life in this context, I hope that this 2 percent target will not be one of those lies of life by 2020. Mr Collegue van BZÖ, Mr Widmann: To someone who calls me “Teacher” and, as it were, proves by his remarks that he cannot expect in any way, I am not accountable! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Call the BZÖ:But to the taxpayer! That's tax money!]] For my work for the city of Vienna, I am accountable to the mayor, the municipal government in Vienna and the municipal council in Vienna, but certainly not the same weight as you! Federal Minister: Money is not all that we already know, but why does the Ministry block cooperations that already want to take place between the Applied and the Conservatory, which is formally a private university of the city of Vienna? [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] Where synergies are possible through cooperations, the Ministry says: I'm sorry, don't go! Instead of presenting a novel that allows such cooperations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e5287	Mr Petzner has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e5309	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Colleague Van der Bellen, you're right if you think you don't have to justify yourself against the BZÖ, but you have to justify yourself to the voters in Vienna, whom you have promised that you will use yourself at municipal council level in Vienna for the Viennans. You've been running suffocation. That's a fact you can't argue! First point. [[BZÖ and Abg. Bitch.]] [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: On the matter!]] Second point: You have a colleague sitting in your ranks, Mr Pilz, who is not afraid of throwing away any abject accusations all the time. Mr Pilz should take care of order in his own ranks, because if you ask for more money for the Austrian universities, then you could start with yourself by giving up the €220 000 tax money you spend without delivering any performance! [[Bravorufe at BZÖ]] [[BZÖ and Abg. Bitch.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: An incredible slander!]] Or another example: Since the SPÖ also calls for more money for the Austrian universities, I bring a recent quote from Mr Ostermayer, the State Secretary, who said – quote – that he “uses a few million for the Werner”. That is what has become of winged words, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Why do you even talk about university politics with your level?- Oh, my God!]] I will answer you: Make sure that not the German Chancellor “Werner” receives these millions, but the Austrian students, because they need the tax money, ladies and gentlemen! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: He's so confused that he doesn't even know what's going on now!]] The problem of principle goes in two directions. On the one hand, we have increasing numbers of students and, on the other, stagnating university budgets, and this creates the current wrong situation we currently have, ladies and gentlemen! The crucial mistake and the starting point of this momentous miscarriage was that memorable meeting on 24 February. September 2008, from which I may bring some quotations, which was then said. Mr Graf today complains about the terrible conditions at Austria's universities. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: I didn't complain! I was the only one who didn't complain!]] What's Mr. Martin Graf got on the 24th? September 2008 said? – Quote Graf: “That’s why this package, which we are adopting today, is one of the biggest university packages, I mean even the largest for over 30 years.” [[Oh, call at BZÖ.]] That is what Mr Graf said. Mr Graf, with the approval of his FPÖ, has ensured that we have 42 percent of foreigners, for example, at the University of Innsbruck, that we have a total of over 60 000 foreign students who represent our students. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: South Tyrol!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: There are not so many South Tyroleans at all!]] We can pay for the training of foreign students. – This is the result of your university policy, Mr. Graf! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: I'm not in government!]] Mr Graf then also gives a relatively open expression to what was actually his intention at the time. Mrs Mag. Karl, then still a Member of Parliament, said: “...I can tell you what my colleague Graf wants: more German students.” The Minutes also mention a beautiful call from Mr Graf: “. ” [[Abg. Dr. Graf: That's it!]] That's all you need to say, ladies and gentlemen. You admit for yourself what your intention is. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] I don't want foreign students, nor any Germans, I want the Austrian students to have a place at the university, that they get a proper education, that they have courses at their disposal, that they can complete their studies at the minimum time or during the time they plan to do so, that overall the academic rate in Austria and not in Germany or elsewhere, as the ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ want, ladies and gentlemen! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I bring another quote from Mrs Rudas, and she too has been very amusing today. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Kreisky daughter!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Kreisky-Einkelin!]] Kreisky children have not yet reported, I am not one, I am too young to do so, but Mrs Rudas also did on 24 May. September 2008 said something exciting. Quote: “Dear spectators at home who want to experience the moment when this educational disaster finally ends!” What pathetic words! The educational disaster has found its continuation. This, ladies and gentlemen, has proved to you all today in your remarks, because none of you have today declared that everything is in vain at the Austrian universities. For this, the ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ, Greens and FPÖ have to assume the responsibility to bear the essential responsibility for these conditions today, because they took place on 24 April. In September 2008, these tuition fees were abolished. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: But it's not as bad as you always say it!]] We are in favour of reintroducing tuition fees – not to stop people from studying, but to ensure more equal opportunities according to the principle of performance, ladies and gentlemen! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We are for access schemes and, last but not least, for the Austrian universities to receive more money. That is, if Mr. Minister Dädele announces the Uni billions, he has our support. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] Final sentence: The question is whether he will also prevail with the Minister responsible Maria Fekter, and I would like to doubt that more than that.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e5553	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Lugar. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e5575	Madam President. High house! The universities are financially at the end; I think everyone now knows that. But it seems that this has not yet been achieved, Mr Minister, because in your statements today you have spoken of visions, and if you go into detail, the only vision you have is that everything remains the way it is. I've experienced it myself at the university. I studied with me some time ago, and I had the problem that I would have received a maximum of one to two seminars per semester in the second section, in which I would have needed in about eight to ten seminars per semester, due to the long waiting list – there were about 130 students on the waiting list for 30 free spaces – from one to two seminars per semester. - That's the problem! If you make yourself here today, Minister, and claim that there are a lot of bullying students, supposedly more than 100,000 who are so lazy that you have to go after the whip so that something goes on, then I can only say to you: Of course, there are those who do not take the study too seriously, of course, study contributions can bring a little speed into the effort, but one thing is sure as well: Most students want, but cannot, because you are not able to equip the universities with the means they need. That's exactly the point! If you, Mr Minister, make yourself here and claim that the universities are a vessel without soil, the whole money will flow there if you submit the I guess universities could not operate, especially as enough money is available, and they should conform to their autonomy, which they like very much, just make more effort, then I would like to say: Let's listen to an expert what he says! – I think you're an expert, so let's listen to you! They say in the same breath that universities are undercapitalised 20 times in international comparison. You say that yourself! They say the universities have too little money. In the same breath you also say that it is amazing for you that the universities do a performance because of this undercapitalization at all. They are pleased that Mrs. Fekter, our Minister of Finance, does not take away more money from universities, instead of making themselves strong and ensuring that universities finally get the money they need for normal operation alone. I'm not talking about the universities coming back to the top international field. This is also a construction site that we have to deal with, but at the moment it is only about giving the universities the money they need for normal operation. If we agree that there should be more students in this country, that there should be more graduates, but on the other hand you do not put out money and make access restrictions to stop people from studying, then I do not know how you want to open up internationally as far as the academic rate is concerned with the performance of the students and the graduates. How do you want to open up internationally? That's why: Make You're strong that the universities get the money they need! They themselves said that the universities were undercapitalised, undercapitalized 20 times. So do something there! To the argument you brought: The checkouts are empty, what to do?, I can only tell you one thing: We spend €70 billion each year for the normal budget. If you look at the general budget, you see it is more than double. That means we spend a lot of money every year. The central question is: What do we spend it for? – We spend the money, for example, on early pensioners who run through the country at the age of 51 in the event of best health. We spend it by drilling a hole into every x-random mountain. We are spending it on Greece, which is supposed to have to be saved; no one knows whether this is really true, whether it will be possible at all, whether we can even save it. That means that we spend a lot of money, but what we lack is the setting of priorities. One thing is also quite certain: We are facing a cost explosion in many areas, for example in the areas of pensions, health, and, and, and. Who, do you think, will pay this once? – This will be paid by those who are now studying. Those who are best trained to provide a top tax rate will pay for it once. And you sabotage, so to speak, the possibilities of those people who will pay the bill in the future. That's the point! That is why, Minister, with regard to this study fee debate: Stop this shit! [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] Whether you continue or not, I don't know, I can't imagine it, but it's crucial that you commit yourself unconditionally to the financing of universities and also negotiate and enforce it with the Minister of Finance. This is the commandment of the hour, we expect from you!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e5639	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[10:38:36]] Current European hour
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e5665	We're now coming to the current one. European hours on the subject: ‘combating corruption in the EU’ First of all, Mr Magistrate. Kogler. I would draw attention to the fact that your speaking time is 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e5693	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Austria is a ‘corruption case’. This quote is from the head of the working group of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, by Mark Pieth. He has repeated it several times, increasingly concerned that the abuses in this area in our country are getting worse and worse. Everyone can be convinced that on the one hand, more and more scandals are becoming public, and on the other hand, far too little is being done to prevent such a thing in the future. Why are we addressing this in the current European hour? - Because on the 6th. The European Commission sent a 40-page document to Parliament and the Council on June, which clearly points out the damage caused by corruption in the individual Member States, but also in the Union. – But this is primarily not the point. The Commission also - the EU Parliament has that on 15 November. It is only on September 1st, that a resolution on this subject, which is also addressed to the national parliaments, that is to say to us here, that much more needs to be done in this area, that there are, on the one hand, existing laws, but that there are also Member States – and I would also include Austria in a classic way – in which the legal conditions and efforts of the authorities to the public prosecutor, Mrs. Federal Minister Karl, are far “understated”. I am trying to formulate this relatively neutral at this point. So we have a number of international organisations and institutions that are alerting Austria to the need to change something here – as the Greens believe, something has to change quickly. And we want to make a contribution here and today and present a timetable. One thing is clear: If we are not in a position – as much as I am allowed to anticipate the domestic situation – to quickly clarify and open up things first, and to follow the corresponding sanctions, if the perpetrators can be made firm, it does not look good. Thirdly, the damage should be remedied as far as possible by those concerned, but, above all, and fourthly, there must be a re-start in this country, because otherwise politics as a whole, but I believe that the parties, who are particularly involved in these scandals, in particular, want to say the credibility: lose the last credibility in this context. We will therefore still come back to what it has done with the efforts of the Austrian National Council to follow these recommendations, to also respectfully interrupt them or to refuse them. But again: In this report adopted by the Commission on 6 June, the Council adopted a Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States And now we just have to go through with each other and see what is most urgent for Austria. This will also, at least in part, be covered by the agenda which some of us have already undertaken. In every respect, it is always about greater transparency, whether it is about party donations or the disclosure of political incomes, all incomes and assets, the anti-corruption rules in the criminal sense, the protection of the decks and, of course, of such things as that the public hand, Federal Ministers, sometimes even federal chancellors, can not go through and at tax expense finance huge inserate campaigns, so that not only a misuse of the tax money, or at least a public company, and then, in addition, the media coverage, in order to manipulate the opinion. That's all very clearly defined. That's perfectly clear. Only in Austria is it pretended to be cavalier crimes. Again: The definition of corruption is also quite clear, namely that someone uses the power he has now been promised to abuse it to gain a personal advantage, but and above all – and this is so important to international organisations, that is the definition of Transparency International, but also the EU, quite rightly, but also the OECD – is therefore such a concern, because it is also a huge economic damage caused by corruption in the public, in the semi-public down to the private sector. All of this is to be done. The Commission estimates that this will amount to €120 billion in the European area. If we look at the conditions and the figures in Austria, what is being counted together here in the potential of recent years, we will also be able to come to many billions of euros, not only of procurement, but of definitive amounts of damage. Someone must be responsible. But this is the matter of the committee of inquiry. It's going to be still to be talked about today. This is a matter of media reconnaissance. This is a matter of Members' participation here. And your best contribution is not to block the investigation and release the investigation committees, for a comprehensive subject matter of investigation. That's going to be Your contribution! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] At the same time, however, it is about organizing this credible restart to politics. I would particularly like to draw up a proposal which the Commission is making here. You will be able to organize the report very easily, this communication from the Commission to the European Parliament and the following resolution. In the German version on page 17 it is said here quite prominently: ‘Preventing and combating political corruption’. “The Commission calls on the Member States, the national parliaments” – well that you listen so cleverly – we are here – “and the European Parliament” – who have already responded“ to ensure greater transparency and enable efficient monitoring of the financing of political parties and other stakeholders.” – Voilà. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That's the point: The heart of any anti-corruption is the disclosure of the party donations. It is only in this country that we still have laws that favour the concealment of transfers to the parties. Donation washing is permitted by law. We have a party law, which is actually a law which takes the parties into account, if as many funds as possible flow into the party's funds as possible, sometimes even backflows of lubricating funds, because there is definitely a possibility of doing so, except for punishment, for which one goes into prison as a politician in the neighbouring country, the Federal Republic of Germany. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] And if, Mr Klubobmann, we do not resolve these shortcomings as quickly as possible now, then we are at the point of the final loss of credibility. I say something to you at this point and, preferably, because Mr Klubobmann Cap, gratefully, can be explained once by Mr Pilz, how this has to continue. Maybe it'll help him. [[Abg. Riepl: They talk about something different!]] [[Abg. Head: Your colleague keeps him from listening!]] It's not that everything would be hopeless. Time and again we try to launch this restart. Now, however, the historical window is open that this can also happen because you will no longer be able to cope with public pressure at all. - And that's good. At the end of the previous year we already have at the party secretary level – oh wonder! – in fact, a punctuation has been made, across all the parties which, in this very area, in this very heart of all anti-corruption, have given very important things that we should implement here in Parliament. What happened? – At the beginning of this year, Club people were started. You regularly refused the dates, you sent some people who didn't know each other. This has gone on month after month so that in May, when the pressure was then too big again after the many affairs that have already emerged from your black and blue era, finally put a signal. Mr. Kopf, I have the quote here, Mr. Cap has assisted, "Mitagsjournal", 6. May: We will submit a content proposal to the opposition parties in the coming week – that is, in May – and will introduce the deadline proposals. Nothing has happened until today! Five times we have talked about how this roadmap continues. That's not how it is. You are totally unbelievable at this restart. That needs to be corrected. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We need a party law, an disclosure law, which includes exactly what it is all about, to disclose all the currents of payment – not what you have tried behind the scenes and therefore delayed for so long that the ÖVP may already do something, but the Economic Union does not, the Farmers' Federation and the Workers' Federation does not know and what I know what else there is. [[Abg. Head: This is not the topic!]] Yeah, what's left of the ÖVP? The national organizations are not, and, and, and. You have to explain at all times where your country organizations and also those of the SPÖ had the money last year to drive such a campaign that cost millions in every federal state, especially in Styria, in Vienna, millions more than what public party funding is all about. [[towards ÖVP]] Tell me where you got the money! The voters have a right to experience this, and the Commission demands it from the Austrian Parliament. And you're blocking it! It's not a restart. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] And in every banking discussion on matters of content, one hears, now more and more official, the banking regulations in Austria look that way because the banks also donate to the parties. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]] [[Between call of the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is time to reveal things. This disbelief should be given to the National Council, but should no longer be granted to the ÖVP and SPÖ in particular.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e5832	Before I give the floor to Mrs Federal Minister, I would like to raise an objection, Mr Ing. Westenthaler just made it. We should not use the current hour of Europe as a crunch to discuss internal policy issues, which of course should also be discussed legitimately, but I can call on everyone to remain on the topic of the current European hour of “corruption control in the EU”. [[Abg. Head: This was an abuse of the Rules of Procedure!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: But this is happening now!]] [[Call the BZÖ: Has happened already!]] [[Abg. Vilimsky: That can't be it!]] [[Abg. Strache: Are we not a member of the EU? What are you doing?]] [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: You allowed it!]] For business treatment: Mr Mag. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e5968	Madam President. You can see how the ÖVP gets confused when it has to be explained by Klubobmann Strache that it...
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e5983	Mr President, if you speak on the Rules of Procedure, please also refer to the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e5998	Yes, Madam President! It would only be very useful to accept that we have assumed here from a report basis of the European Commission to the European Parliament and have been quoted as other international institutions, with the Austrian National Council expressly invited by the Commission and Parliament to act. [[Abg. May. Stadler: What does this have to do with the hour of Europe?]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: He actually said “Europe” three times!]] This is what we have presented here. They're reports, they're documents...
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e6043	Mr President, this is another speech. You've already done that. I have already drawn attention to the fact that the speeches are already to be kept on the subject of the current hour of Europe. Mr Vilimsky spoke on business. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e6073	Thank you, Madam President. If you are watching international media coverage today, for example in the newspaper “Die Welt” or in the “Süddeutsche Zeitung”, you will see that what we are discussing here in Austria under the title “Inserate Corruption” is now the broadest topic in the European Union. I really would ask you not to block the free word of the mandates in the sense of the Rules of Procedure, and not to regulate the scandal, which is far beyond the borders of Austria, here too, in an open way, and not with party-political co-decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e6107	I would, of course, like to take the opportunity to hold the Presidency objectively. However, I would draw attention to the fact that there is a law called the Rules of Procedure, which also provides for the need to speak on the matter and that it is up to the President-in-Office to ensure that the matter is also discussed. – That's just to remember, that's all I wanted to express. Now for a preliminary opinion, Mrs Federal Minister Dr. Karl is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e6137	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Kogler has started his speech by quoting that Austria is a “corruption case”. [[Abg. May. Kogler: That's what the OECD says!]] The issue of corruption is currently not only concerned with MEPs Kogler, corruption is currently in the hands of all. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the Greens.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: Especially in the party funds of the ÖVP!]] What has happened in the last few weeks and months is actually unacceptable, it really must be pointed out and it must also be done on the hardest side. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] We, as political leaders in this country, of course also have a role to play in this regard and, in view of such incidents, cannot go back to everyday life without further delay. As Minister of Justice, it is also important to me in this context to mention that the public prosecutor is working hard to resolve the criminal offenses. That's the order of the prosecutor's office, and it's a very good task. In view of the current errors, however, it is necessary to differentiate between criminal responsibility and political responsibility. Not everything that is politically, not everything that is morally objectionable, is also criminally relevant. And just clarifying the criminal responsibility, that's the task of the prosecutor's office. Parliament's task is to clarify political responsibility. We all have a model function in this hall. I have already mentioned this. And for all of us, of course, special moral standards apply. If we together have the interest that confidence in politics should not grow further, there can also be no compromises here. But it's not just the reconnaissance of our job. It is also our task that we put in place the right measures for the future so that such actions simply do not happen in the future and also lead to stricter consequences. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Cap.]] The lobbying law, which I will forward to you for parliamentary treatment in the coming weeks, is intended to increase transparency. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Toothless!]] In the future, no one should ask himself: “Where is the performance?” This question should no longer exist in the future, and in the future it should be clear which performance is the opposite. The Ministry of Justice has already taken a very important step by setting up the economic and corruption prosecutors' office in order to provide the authorities with the right tools, the right tool to deal with corruption and economic offences. My employees are also working on developing an Austrian model of Whistlebloving. There is also a high pressure working on an anti-corruption package in the Hohe Haus, which has already been pointed out. If I, as Minister of Justice, may also inform you of some of the wishes in this regard, these are the following: I would like to see a clear, transparent regime for party financing, a ban on dubious commissions, stricter guidelines for politicians who are also in line with the special moral claim, a clearer regulation of feeding, maximum transparency in the award of advertisements and the disclosure of ownership of media companies. Mr Kogler has already pointed out in his speech that this is a matter of greater transparency. And I'll give you all the right. Transparency is simply a central tool to dry out the swamp of corruption. Of course, I also very much like to make available to Parliament the expertise and expertise of the Ministry of Justice, so that this package actually creates the necessary transparency and that we can really deal effectively with corruption together. Mr Kogler's speech also spoke of credibility. I am convinced that we already have to be aware of the special responsibility on our own in the interests of our credibility, because one must also make this anti-corruption package clear: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz]] Corruption is not a cavalier crime; no eye must be pushed into it. Ladies and gentlemen, especially in the context of the Austrian debate, it is also important to look at the borders in order to include in our considerations how this phenomenon of corruption is considered from the perspective of the European community of values. I therefore welcome the activities of the European Commission at the Council meeting of Justice Ministers and Ministers of the Interior on 9 and 10. In June of this year. Given that four-fifths of the population of the European Member States see corruption as a serious problem, the European Commission is also calling for even greater efforts to combat corruption, both at Member State level and at international level and, of course, at EU level. The European Commission considers the implementation of international instruments in the Member States to be too different, which is why no satisfactory degree of harmonisation has been achieved. For this reason, law enforcement to combat corruption in practice is also considered to be inadequate. The Commission proposes an EU anti-corruption report to strengthen the fight against corruption, which will be published for the first time in 2013 and every two years. This reporting mechanism is intended to periodically examine the corruption situation in the EU, develop trends and best practices and include general and tailored recommendations. The Commission will draw up this report but will also contribute to the creation of an expert group as well as a network of scientists. Anti-corruption measures by the Member States are to be examined, promoted and, of course, observed more precisely than now. Furthermore, all EU policies should focus more on anti-corruption measures. In particular, it will focus on closer judicial and police cooperation, modern provisions on property law in criminal proceedings and the revision of procurement legal bases, improved statistics and accompanying measures in the enlargement process. The Commission also announces a stronger focus on anti-corruption measures in the area of law enforcement and judicial and police cooperation in the EU. Europol, Eurojust and EACN should be more closely involved in cooperation to combat corruption. A revised proposal on provisions on confiscation and return on property is still under consideration. In 2012, the Commission will present a strategy to strengthen financial investigations. On the protection of whistleblower, which I have already mentioned for the national level, the Commission will present an evaluation. Proposals for measures relating to the public procurement procedure, accounting rules, the prevention of political corruption and the improvement of statistics et cetera are also planned. The Commission's report on the implementation of the 2003 Framework Decision 568 on the fight against corruption in the private sector also calls implementation in the Member States unsatisfying, while a comprehensive evaluation of the lack of comparable statistics and comparable cases of corruption in the private sector should not have been possible. Austria is also called on by the Commission to fully implement, in particular by requiring a clearer regime of criminal responsibility for the demand and acceptance of benefits by leading bodies for non-compulsory exercise of powers and the extension of criminality to the non-profit sector. Finally, the Commission proposes that the EU should join GRECO as a full member to take advantage of mutual benefits, exchange of expertise and monitoring mechanisms. Of course, I support all the measures that enable law enforcement authorities to fight corruption more effectively, and I have therefore also supported the cross-party initiative of the members of the European Parliament Othmar Karas, Elisabeth Köstinger, Hannes Swoboda, Jörg Leichtfried and Ulrike Lunacek at the meeting. The European Commission is invited to present a proposal for a directive to regulate the crime of corruption for all Members of the European Parliament and minimum standards for criminal provisions in all Member States of the European Union and to grant OLAF a mandate to carry out preliminary investigations and preliminary surveys in the appropriate cases. The recent cases, however, have also shown, above all, the need for faster decision-making in the European Parliament, because it was not possible for the judicial authorities to take evidence-proof measures before deciding on the withdrawal of immunity. Ladies and gentlemen, the report of the European Commission, which I have now referred to, shows that corruption is a European phenomenon, but of course this does not prevent us from taking the appropriate measures to combat corruption at national level. We simply have to fight corruption with all available means and close existing gaps. [[President Neugebauer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Mr Kogler has accused the public prosecutors of not finding out enough. I would like to reject this allegation. As a result of the successful investigations carried out by the prosecutor's office so far, a wealth of criminal, moral and ethical practices was first discovered, namely precisely practices located at the interface between public enterprises and politics. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Have you not!]] That is why I really reject the allegation of inactivity or insufficient detection. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: The accusation of Transparency!]] These activities of the public prosecutor are, of course, largely due to the fact that the first time the procedures have been applied, and through this procedural regime, a knowledge has become available to the public prosecutor, which in other ways would probably not have become accessible to him. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Thank God!]] However, the current investigations also show that Austrian law on corruption is quite effective, but of course we also need to see again and again in this area of criminal law whether these criminal offences are still keeping pace with social developments or whether it is necessary to improve, update. Then, of course, we would have to close the corresponding gaps that put in place the appropriate measures. However, together we must ensure that corruption is already suffocated in the germ, because corruption is quite simply poison for our rule of law, and our rule of law is the basis of our society. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Of course, we must not forget one thing: It is also about the confidence of the population in the politics and confidence of the population in public administration. This confidence is essential for a functioning democracy. That is why I ask you, also in the light of our political responsibility for this country, to take a lead with me and really to take all the necessary means to combat corruption effectively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e6287	I would draw attention to the fact that the speaking time of all other participants in the current European hour should not exceed 5 minutes. Mr Klubobmann, Dr. Cap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e6311	I think it is very useful that we have this current hour of Europe on this issue today. Of course, we can also take a look at the EU itself: If the Commission acknowledges that in its area of the corruption framework, €120 billion and more than €1.3 billion in the EU itself, and OLAF – as one of the anti-corruption organisations that is very successful in this area – has also been fighting back € 249 million, this shows that corruption is a European phenomenon and the EU has recognised it. [[Abg. May. Kogler: All countries together!]] We here in the Austrian Parliament have stated that we want to decide inconsistencies and that we will decide on a reporting obligation for Members' incomes – analogous to the German Bundestag. [[Abg. May. Kogler: When? For seven years!]] We will adopt a lobbyism law, a lobbyist register, so that there will finally be transparency. Of course, we will also decide on the question of party donations – as one of the previous speakers has said – and we will also tighten the provisions of the anti-corruption law. However, we will also do a lot in the media sector and, of course, if GRECO makes the test reports and the EU looks back at Austria again, just as we will look at the EU, because of course one should also do so, we will also want to adopt a media transparency law here in this House, so that this topic is advertised, this debate is subject to a regulation under the word advertising corruption. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Right!]] In this context, however, I would like to say one thing: One is currently discussing the fact that the half government of the black-blue or black-orange period of the years 2000 to 2007 is in the focus of public discussion and consideration, and one is talking about these huge accusations of corruption against this half government, and is now becoming a discharge – corruption accusations Gorbach, Reichhold, Scheibner, Strasser, that is all a point since you can still yell so much, that was so – trying to criminalise the placement in newspapers such as “Krone”, “Today” or “Austria”. [[Abg. Vilimsky is demonstrating a newspaper entitled “Red in Emergency”]] [[Intervocations at FPÖ, ÖVP and BZÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: It's about infidelity!]] I can only tell you: This is very transparent and actually without any background. You know that very well. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Steibl and Mr Hornek.]] If, in particular, the one, Mr Huber, presents himself to the public – from whatever motives – under whose responsibility 600 million € were then speculated, in the black and blue age, in the ÖBB, when it is being produced today and largely philosophized over advertising orders, which an unbounded body of the ÖBB had to grant, I understand what the background is. [[Interlocutory calls from Deputies Ing. Westenthaler, Strache and Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] I'll tell you something, I'll see another background: We have a market competitive situation, you know that very well. A market economic competitive situation between the free newspapers on the one hand, which are dependent on ads, and on the other hand, the other newspapers are, of course, for market shares, for shares in advertisements to fight for shares in readers. That is of course! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: “Seven million for Werner! ”]] Look, I'm one of those who stand up for the diversity of this title, but then, if you want to sit down and advertise in an organ, you should say: Where do I advertise? Do I advertise in the largest possible newspaper with the largest readership possible or do I make a media promotion and advertise in the smallest newspaper with the small reader circle? [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Head: If you don't know for yourself, ask the...!]] Then I have to say: The obligation of the members of the institutions to use the company's resources as efficiently as possible and to choose the largest readership possible. That's where you say, that's what many say: No, that's actually criminal, that belongs to investigation. There is a need to do everything possible in order to be able to debate this. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] You know, that's one of the backgrounds. If in the future, as I read, the Court of Auditors in a Commission will decide whether advertising is still being awarded or a political group says, only in justified cases – if you define this, then you will have to explain – or if some say, we prohibit advertising to state governments, federal governments, half- or all-state undertakings at all, then invite Erwin Pröll to your club meeting once and ask him what he says about it as the head of state of Lower Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. The other day, Vilimsky keeps up to date a newspaper entitled “Red in Emergency. ”]] Or invite Mr Dörfler and hear what he says about it. He will remember that the BZÖ used the BZÖ Sujet in the public ads of its ministries at that time. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: A few million for Werner!]] We have discussed all of this here, and twenty million have been spent at the time. This has not been dealt with under the title ‘Insect corruption’. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Rädler and Mr Steibl.]] So, please, let's try to really discuss this so that we can see what the economic backgrounds are – I see, that's competition. I have to tell you that I am a representative of the market economy and not of the planned economy; one should not intervene now with the means of politics and manage the advertising distribution plan economically – no, market economy! The media must prove themselves on the market. That, I believe, is a principle you should really follow.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e6496	Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann's head. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e6518	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! So if the clubman of the SPÖ now forces himself to be the savior of the market economy, then I get dizzy, then I get scared. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusions of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] But the subject raised before is serious enough. Indeed, corruption – and in order to use the word Europe once again in the current hour of Europe – is a huge problem throughout Europe. [[Abg. May. Kogler: That's something special for the ÖVP anyway!]] Mr Kogler, but whether the election in this newly created or not recently created instrument of the current hour of Europe is just happy? – There are plenty of other opportunities to talk about the domestic policy, indeed serious situation in dealing with corruption. [[Abg. May. Kogler: You haven't even read the documents yet!]] We have a huge problem in Greece, it's close to the pleite. Turkey/Israel: There is a conflict that can be discussed externally. Hungary is currently wringing out our Austrian banks by law in an inadmissible way. The Czech Republic wants to build 15 new nuclear power plants. – These would be topics that we would have to discuss under this title ‘Europe’. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intervocations with FPÖ and greens.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: That's incredible!]] But, well, let's talk about corruption in Austria. Unfortunately, this is a very serious chapter. [[Abg. May. Kogler: You block any information, and the Commission points out!]] – You already had your opportunity to talk, now I’m on it. In Austria, we actually have a problem with morality and propriety. This problem must be solved at the interface of politics and the public economy, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[New calls from the Abg. May. Kogler.]] On the one hand, the problem and the specific cases have to be resolved in full, without the person’s reputation, everything has to be on the table. Secondly, we also need new laws, stricter laws, the final end of this interface once clean and clean, otherwise this goes on in this way. This does not only damage the In view of politics, it damages the reputation of Austria's economic location to an extent that we cannot all want it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Riepl and Mr Mag. Korun.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the worst thing about the whole thing is that this scandal has now reached the top of our federal government. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Cap, it is not that this is a matter of course, as Mr. State Secretary Ostermayer said in the “Time in Figure 2” yesterday, that a representative of the Minister of Transport and today’s Federal Chancellor is joining a state company and is talking to him about it – above all, “speaking”, as there are other testimonies who are rather talking about pressure and repression – as the advertising activity of this company has to look forward to. [[Interlocutory calls at SPÖ and by Mr Grosz and Dr Pirklhuber.]] This has to be done by this company, which is responsible for the management of the company itself, in accordance with the share law, in any case to the Supervisory Board, if it has a certain volume, but certainly not to the Minister of Transport. That is not even to be discussed with this one! [[Consistency with ÖVP, BZÖ and FPÖ as well as the Abg. May. Kogler.]] That already shows an understanding, an official understanding, which is not mine and which I have to say clearly: I can't do that! The statements of the Secretary of State Ostermayer in the “Time in Figure 2” were a revelation. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That was a confession!]] [[Abg. That was embarrassing!]] That is why I said yesterday, too, that there is nothing more to examine on this question, because there is a confession. There is a clear recognition that this influence has taken place. [[Congratulations with ÖVP, FPÖ and BZÖ.]] [[Calls of the Abg. Dr. Moser.]] To reinterpret my statement yesterday that I am against an investigation in this case is unacceptable. I didn't say that yesterday either. [[Abg. May. Kogler: With the investigative committee!]] One last: In this really critical situation and in this very critical matter, as soon as the Federal Chancellor is back from his journey abroad, I expect him to make a clean statement to this House about all these accusations concerning him as the Minister of Transport at the time – for we can certainly not leave these things in the room.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e6724	Next speaker: Mr Vilimsky. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e6745	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I'm stuck at the entrance: Austria is a member of the European Union, just as the neighbouring Federal Republic of Germany is a member of the European Union. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Those who look into international reporting today realize that your advertising corruption case has gone far beyond the Alpine Republic of Austria and is the subject of very critical reporting. “By train to the Chancellor’s Office”. Large picture reports about your chairman, who, as you can now see from the newspapers, has retained 7 million for himself and his advertising purposes from the taxpayer and the Bundesbahn. This is the subject, and I am sure I will not let it be taken as a free-elected representative to point to it today in a debate on corruption. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] “Seven million for the Werner”. – This is not my shirt-sleeping formulation now, but it is from the agreement protocol of the former ÖBB chief Huber, who gave to protocol that Faymann should have exerted pressure on him, that 7 million should be withheld from the taxpayer and that 7 million of the Bundesbahn should be withheld to advertise for your purposes. Yeah, that's it! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Heinzl: Stop!]] I'll tell you one thing, too. 400 000 € for Herbert Scheibner, they're nothing, but 7 million € for your Werner, who aren't worthy of investigation all at once?- Oh, my God! [[Prolonged calls of the Abg. Heinzl.]] Stop it! You're sitting in the corruption scandal. “Rot in Not”, this is the theme on all front pages today. I'm sure you won't come out. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I'll tell you one thing: The whole thing goes on. My case-law has put the whole thing in place, and I thank the prosecutor for having had enough courage to investigate and investigate it. [[Abg. Heinzl: Who was the Minister, the...?! The Gorbach was that!]] And there will be a second presentation of the matter by me on this subject. In 2007, when the infrastructure minister was called Faymann and implemented an EU regulation, he set the course for the federal government to conclude a contract with the ÖBB in the form of the rail infrastructure company, which means that a surplus proceeds of 2 billion for the ÖBB will be achieved, and which will also be recorded in the report of the rail regulator. They're sitting in the corruption scandal up to both ears. That's not a blue scandal! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] None of us have anything to do with it either. You will not find a single name of a FPÖ member that has anything to do with it on the verge of anything! And now we read that the ASFINAG is also part of your extortional methods towards the daily newspapers and public companies. That is blatant – and that will also be clarifyive! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I thank Mr Klubobmann Head, who said: This is also a worthy subject for the ÖVP! Not that this is going to happen in a cow trade. On the contrary! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinzl.]] Your party president has been advertised. You ask – Faymann answers. I'll tell you one thing: That you ask and Faymann reply, this will be in a committee of inquiry where Mr. Federal Chancellor Faymann will have to speak and answer! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Heinzl:... Gorbach!]] We will also examine: Mr. ÖBB-Chief Kern, who is not a party-politically unpolluted and was in the cabinet during the time of Kostelka, was in the SPÖ club for many years press speakers – and now at once the protocols are completely different! There are courageous people who provide information to the daily newspapers about AustroLeaks that exactly these blackmail methods have been done by you through the SPÖ. And now I'm asking you one: Who will lie there – are it the daily newspapers that publish these protocols properly, or is it perhaps in the red dusk circle of the ÖBB, where you want to cover it up? [[Abg. Heinzl: No, you!]] This kind of false evidence will also have to be the subject of an investigation committee. You can't stop it. I don't care. I don't care. [[Abg. Heinzl: I sit very comfortable!]] You're in the drawing! They're stuck in the corruption scandal up to both ears. Today, the FPÖ will request a committee of inquiry, Mr Klubobmann Cap, and this will not be so slow, that is, only on 28 March. Talk about it on September. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If we sit together today, we now, without any reservations, largely define the subject matter of the investigation and we thoroughly miss out on it by clarifying all of this! Mein Ladies and gentlemen, it's incredible what came into play. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] I thank the public, the media and the prosecutor for this courageous educational work. Mr. Klubobmann Cap, please act on your own people in order to be able to clarify with courage, honesty and propriety this huge scandal of corruption, which has not been constructed by us, but is the subject of international reporting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e6933	If a topic begins with the term “corruption”, then the danger of general accusations is very high. And, my colleague, the expression “saustall” must not be. [[Abg. Vilimsky: He's missing!]] Mrs Moser. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e6965	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen here and at home in front of the television screens! Yes, European problems are also corruption issues. Mrs Minister, I am grateful to you that you are now putting on your agenda all the follow-up needs we have in Austria or including them in your programme. Only: What does this help us at the moment when we're working on it? I hear from Mr Klubobmann Cap: We want to! We'll be! I hear from the ÖVP: It must be solved! – These are again loud statements for the future. And when I come back to the European Commission's communication to the European Parliament, which is practically at the heart of the EU's anti-corruption debate, I should like to point out once again that the Commission is calling on the Member States, the national parliaments, us, and the European Parliament to ensure greater transparency and effective monitoring of the financing of political parties. Once again, we are at the heart of allowing for greater transparency in the financing of political parties and other stakeholders. Please, there we are exactly where you block and delay again. We heard: In May, negotiations were underway, and now the 21st is already in progress. September. The Federal Minister has listed a whole list of projects which should have been addressed in the past. We ourselves have had an intensification in feeding for Members. In 2009, all of this was removed from the law. We are massively in the implementation deficit of what should be European standards and, in some cases, European standards among our neighbours. Therefore, in the international media, especially in the German media, such as in the “South German newspaper”, we can always read a sharp criticism of the Austrian states, which will not only be published today – I refer to the history of advertising – but who have been presenting to you all about facsimile prints since 2008 – the mission of Transport Minister Faymann to the ASFINAG, was the subject of one of my parliamentary inquiries. No one's excited about it! I have put forward documents, and the Minister for Transport has answered: Yes, there are conversations! He didn't even abdicate it. But there's no one excited about it. But now at once it's a megatheme. I am glad that you are finally taking care of this and that it is necessary to explain the financial resources of the parties more precisely. We are again and again witnesses in the Court of Auditors, where the President is relatively powerless, quite simply saying: Yes, I have received the messages from the parties from which they feed, but unfortunately I cannot make them available to you, unfortunately I cannot make them available to the public either! There we are exactly where the European Commission is calling for us, namely on the question of transparency, on the core of anti-corruption measures, on the fight against corruption! It's about transparency! And now a proposal that my colleague Van der Bellen has also made to me: Please, in the future at each government board, at every ÖBB secretariat, to attribute to each ASFINAG listing how much it costs and from which it is financed! [[Demonstratative condolences with the Greens.]] Then the readers will be able to make a good picture of the means by which the filling horn is filled. For example, this would be a step that is relatively pragmatic. And since it says: Damage to the economic location! – Yes, do something about it! Always just announcements! Today, we will again discuss the setting up of committee of inquiry on the question of clarifying and developing consequences. This clarification and the question of transparency as well as the legal consequences are also at the heart of the European Commission's concern. But you're going to be this afternoon – and I guarantee you that I'll go in every bet! – to reject all of this again, which you are now saying in the European hour in the morning: Yes, we will and will! Please do and want to do in the afternoon, namely when it comes to setting up a committee of inquiry, which we believe is due to the wide range of corruption in Austria – at Schwarz-Blau five ministers: [[Deconstratetive appeal to the Greens]] Grasser, Reichhold, Gorbach and then two, i.e. Strasser and maybe I even forgot someone else, I can look at it. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: Scheibner!]] This is the core of the investigations – but nothing goes on! [[Call the SPÖ: Van der Bellen you forgot!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Faymann also forgot!]] No, I'm talking about ministers! And there's nothing going on: for example, in the Telekom matter. The BUWOG issue will now be replaced again in the cow trade against the authority radio “Tetron” or against the ad question. Let's make a big anti-corruption committee! Let us follow the concerns of the EU Commission and work systematically, step by step, well subdivided these incidents! And there is certainly also a place for advertising Causa, because such a thing, please, is certainly on the political agenda beyond the criminal agenda. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e7049	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Stadler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e7070	Mr President. High house! First of all, we must say: This is not a ‘new European hour’! That is what the Green Group has to say to the ladies and gentlemen. She's dead with it, she's done with it. I would rather be interested to know from you why you are making the two-thirds majority available for the billions that we should now sink again in Greece. I'd like to explain that once. This explains to the Austrian public once! [[Demonstrative applause with BZÖ.]] But we will discuss this with you this afternoon, because we will clarify this with a urgent request. To date, Mr Van der Bellen has remained guilty of explaining why he was able to increase his mandate for € 210 000 a year in Vienna. That would have been an explanation I expected! [[Calls to the Greens.]] Mrs Bundesminister, I hear your message that you want to fight corruption, well, but I remember that you also have a credibility deficit, and I must say: I do not believe this until you agree that you voted in favour of the investigation committee in which we wanted to clarify the Telekom deal. With your vote, Mrs Bundesminister, you then helped to strangle this information into the committee of inquiry with which we would be much further today. Mrs. Federal Minister, your credibility will be tested in the case of accused Werner Faymann and Dr. Josef Ostermayer, because – and there is a colleague's head right – this performance in the "ZiB 2" was a single confession! This is how one can admit one’s own compassion. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter:... at Mr Scheibner!]] This is something else, Mr Matznetter. 7 million € Tax money is via a city of destination Her State Secretary, Ostermayer, was in favour of Chancellor Werner Faymanngeflussen. 7 million €! [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] Don't do it, do it! Don't do it! 7 million € tax money, because your Mr. State Secretary Ostermayer asked for it. This is quite different from that of my colleague Scheibner. I'll explain that to you. [[Further call of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] You want to check that your State Secretary and your Federal Chancellor have the insolence to order advertisements for your Federal Chancellor and Party President, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ, at a state-owned company that lives by the taxpayer and subsidies! [[Demonstrative applause with BZÖ.]] That's a measure of shame. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] You should be silent! The President-in-Office has at least said that we will now change that, and we will now make a law. But the Secretary of State out of office roars down there, probably he has had the same thing to answer. Let us take a look at his State Secretary's activity! [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] You should keep silent and not point your finger at others! – I repeat: 7 million € tax money wasted for an advertising campaign for the party president of SPÖ, ladies and gentlemen! And then colleague Cap – where is he now? – the courage to get out of here and say: The corruptionists like Herbert Scheibner! – I firmly reject this defiance! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Subsequent calls to the SPÖ.]] Mr Scheibner did not use a single euro of tax money. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter:... cashed!]] Tell me what! Come out and tell me which one! [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter:... Eurofighter!]] Come out and tell us what euro the Scheibner colleague's tax money has taken! [[Further call of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] Come on. You get out and carry the evidence! What the colleague Scheibner has done is ridiculous compared to the €7 million that your Federal Chancellor has pushed out of a state company. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I regret that the Peter Pilz is not here now, because the following process of making a corruption case is really grotesque. So: Eight years after the type decision, Herbert Scheibner is said to have required €60 000 for a subsidiary of Eurofighter to enable a billion-dollar business. So I've never heard such a nonsense at all! And half of them he's still supposed to deliver as tax money, so he'll be left with 30,000. So if this is the corruptionist Scheibner – not even tax money, by the way! – then the corruptionist Scheibner is responsible for €30 000. And in addition to that, it was handled via an Austrian black bank. By the way, Mr Kopf, we will have to talk more about this black bank. If Raiffeisen believes that he can relieve the ÖVP by publishing an account from a customer – that has not been ordered by you; the Raiffeisen-Mafia from Lower Austria already knows what it is doing – so if one discloses an account of a customer only to the public in order to be able to make a policy, and believes that the ÖVP is doing a service with it, then I can only warn all spectators to have an account there, ladies and gentlemen! [[Demonstratative applause and bravorufe at BZÖ.]] I can only warn everyone to have an account there! Thanks to God, I don't have an account there. If a bank – Mr Maier!Where is he now?; where are all the Raiffeisen lobbyists: Maier, Auer? –, that is, if a bank willfully pass on account data only because it wants to make a policy, then this is an insanity, ladies and gentlemen, then belongs to this bank warned! I am expressly warning against having to take account of Raiffeisen. We will discuss this several times today, rely on it!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e7254	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Herbs. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e7275	Mr Stadler, you can't overtone the "Eurofighter-Causa Scheibner" even with the loudest bleak. Take note of this! High house! GRECO, the Council of Europe, will report on the situation in Austria in 2012. In the first place, there are two questions, namely: How does it look with the party donations in Austria? What about anti-corruption measures? It was I, ladies and gentlemen, who set up an initiative in this respect, and we negotiated in the circle of the Secretary-Generals and the Federal Directors and decided on the following: In the future, more than €7 000 will be published on the website of Parliament and the Court of Auditors. There will be a ban on quantification and circumvention and severe sanctions on infringement. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kogler.]] This is already done, and, Mr Kogler, we will decide soon. [[Abg. May. Kogler: For a year we should have that! Block SPÖ and ÖVP!]] In the fight against corruption, a lot goes on – not in all cases, Mrs Minister, in some cases! – it's now a little researched. There are account openings, house searches and so on. But this is a “current European hour”, so let’s look at Europe! Corruption with Austrian participation: Why did we fall back in the 12th place index to 15th place, which leads to corruption? Well, Mensdorff-Pouilly: Ladies and gentlemen, how many criminal proceedings do you really need to know, how many crimes do you have to be fellow-consuls or fellow perpetrators when EADS lays € 288 million to silence the British authorities? A simple farmer? – I wonder why this man in Austria is still on foot, Mrs. Minister! And for seven days U-port 430 000 €? So the population is wondering, the workers, the small employees, the small traders who cannot save this sum throughout their lives are wondering: What kind of system is that? Does anyone understand? So there are real tasks for GRECO and international. I keep meeting people who say: That is what I want to do, put myself on the lazy skin for a week and cash off €430 000 for that! Or: Grasser, the international linkage with his foundation and company construction. We finally want to know what's going on. It is difficult to get that from Liechtenstein. They're resisting any information there. We want to know how much wealth Mr Grasser has accumulated in the black and blue government, at the scandals of BUWOG, Eurofighter, Hypo Alpe-Adria and Telekom. [[Abg. BAWAG!]] Because you come in, Mr. Strache: What about Scheuch, your particular? – We also want to clarify the alleged insurance fraud as regards the disappearance of his BMW in Hungary. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That's where they agreed out of court? Well, what is that, what does that mean? What is there for accompanying circumstances, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ? Or: Straster. – Of course, this has also accelerated down the corruption index for Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein:... Werner Faymann!]] Strasser was Austrian Head of Delegation of the ÖVP, top candidate of the ÖVP, former Minister of the ÖVP – and he then presented Europe and worldwide how political corruption and political prostitution work. Incredible! There is also a lack of information, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP. After what was the case with the Strasser election advertising at the EU election at the time? Has this been correct, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP? – Payed by the taxpayer: since the official notification of the Ministry of the Interior, the highest electoral authority, and here, ladies and gentlemen, ÖVP election advertising! I think it really sees everyone/everyone that seems to belong together. Well, what's that? Abuse of office? Instigation for the abuse of office? I'll tell you something: I've already got this on 1st. ==References====External links== Nothing has happened in this respect for more than two years. I demand that the most appropriate charges be made, for the evidence of the eye is carried out. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Head: Parliament requires the prosecutor's office?- Oh, my God!]] Now, on the advertising theme. – Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Martin Huber is now the great discoverer – Mr Huber, who flew out of the ÖBB because of the property business of his wife – ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, please pay attention now! – Mr Huber, who has been recruiting ÖVP with ÖBB money during the 2005 election as an election aid to the ÖVP; Mr Huber, who has organized an election campaign for the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany at the time via ÖBB funds; Mr Huber, who has made sure that the ÖVP pamphletes are located in every vehicle yarn?- Oh, my God! – So Mr Huber, ladies and gentlemen, is not a credible accuser of the SPÖ! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] By the way, I recommend the ÖVP and many others the reading “Lukas Gospel: Chapter 18 verse 11’. This is about the Pharisees!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e7389	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Donnerbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e7410	Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Of course, some of my previous speakers seem to be like classical distraction maneuvers. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, if suddenly the one who makes a statement under the duty of truth takes you as a debtor, this is nothing but an attempt at distraction. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Investigations have to be made by law enforcement authorities, and the courts have to draw the legal conclusions – and certainly not you from this speaker's seat! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But also at my colleague Stadler I find such a distraction maneuver. If he suddenly makes Raiffeisen as an account-leading institution responsible for fulfilling his legal obligation to report suspicions in money laundering cases, this is not a contribution against corruption but also such a distraction maneuver and the attempt to sidetrack from obvious misbehavior. [[Abg. Bucher:... give an ORF interview also!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Bookbooker: This is not a distraction maneuver!]] This, ladies and gentlemen of the BZÖ, really does not speak for the supposedly clean vest and the pure conscience of Mr Scheibner when such a distraction is needed. [[Abg. Bucher: This is not a distraction!]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, we have a current hour of Europe today, and it has been stressed several times that the fight against and prevention of corruption is also an important concern within the European Union and only a few days ago has a corresponding motion for a resolution been dealt with and adopted in the European Parliament with joint efforts and efforts to combat corruption. This is important, also for Austria. We acknowledge that the Austrian People's Party is also committed to taking the appropriate measures against corruption. But also a clear word, ladies and gentlemen, on the situation in Austria: The individual cases that have been known in recent weeks and months cannot be shaken. They must also be informed without compromise, without regard to the person and the parties, they must be persecuted without exception and then punished accordingly. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] And, of course, every... – Yes, Mr Kogler, this also applies to the Greens! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kogler.]] It is also called upon every party to draw the corresponding political consequences from it. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: We have already revealed everything!]] The Austrian People's Party has done this, and other parties still lack the consequences. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: Have you been totally fucked up? It needs a scandal! You've got enough of that!]] But in the case of all the individual cases which have become public and which, of course, have to be fought, I would also like to say quite clearly, because, I believe, it is important – important for many honest and decent citizens, for many people who are engaged in political and at all levels, namely at local level, at national and federal level –: Austria is not a corrupt republic, ladies and gentlemen, it should be declared quite clearly and openly. [[Abg. May. Kogler: But an oasis!]] For this assumption, there is no reason, and also the corruption index, which is created by Transparency International, Austria ranks among the top, i.e. among the best countries, in terms of combating and preventing corruption. [[Abg. May. Kogler: That's incredible!]] We've got the 15th. Place of 178 countries in the world and are among the first ten in the European Union. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Sorry, we're falling back all the time!]] That is, to such a flat-rate condemnation and suspicion, ladies and gentlemen, there really is no reason. [[Abg. May. Kogler: No, we continue as before! There's no scandals!]] Nevertheless, it is important – and I do not want to hide this – to take the necessary measures, which are now also evident, of course. Mr Kogler, we have discussed such measures very intensively in recent weeks, and we are also very clearly at our disposal for these measures. It is important to keep the following keywords or areas in focus: first transparency, second clear rules and framework conditions, and thirdly, a uncompromising investigation and punishment of criminal acts. What does this mean for the various materials and for necessary measures? Firstly, transparency: It has already been stressed that there is the submission of a media transparency law. This is before and has been reviewed. So we could really do that in the next few days and weeks and decide and implement it here in this House. There is a negotiating item on the transparency of grants, by-catches of Members. We are also very far from the negotiations and will be able to conclude this over the next few weeks. It is about the transparency of party donations, ladies and gentlemen, but not only of party donations, it is also a question of including in such a consideration, in such a regulation close to the parties – so that it is not as it is quite the case with the SPÖ Vienna and would be, namely, that the party-related companies which receive corresponding orders will return to the party's profits. This is also the subject of this transparency. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] And it also needs transparency in the field of lobbying register. There is already a proposal for a law before it is implemented. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, let us get away from mutual debt allocation, let us go to constructive negotiations! We are at our disposal – even in the next few days, as in the past few weeks – to create the necessary measures and also to improve in this area. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e7603	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Hübner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e7624	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Donnerbauer! Of course, you can sign everything you say – but that's what we've been saying for years, and that doesn't mean something's changing. We also do not need reports from the EU Commission, neither from Austria nor from other countries. These are things that are natural that everyone actually knows, who also deals with a completed Jus study on matter. These are not complex facts, these are things that are obvious. This report by the Commission, which you mentioned again, perhaps to make some European policy statements, is also from the right ones. Although they give many good tips, they are not applied in the EU Commission and throughout the EU's apparatus, because the EU is an organism that invites too corrupt practices. What is the EU doing with the money? – She manages herself with a quarter, and three-quarters award it as subsidies. This is all; other services are not provided there. That is essentially such a national nature. The fact that the temptation to turn something down, nap it, and to profit is clear. In addition, if I look at the structure of the Member States. Have you heard about corruption scandals in the EU in recent years, in the Commission? - Nothing more! Since the major cases of 2007, 2008 – silence. If you read the OLAF report, i.e. the EU Anti-Fraud Office, – by the way, the last one you find on the Internet is from 2009, so not quite up-to-date – you will find nothing but good advice on what you can do about corruption. So you have to resort to beletistics or to subject-books. For example, I recommend – what does it mean? – “Brussels syringes”, yes, very interesting. “Brussels syringes” – not tips, but syringes – by Jeanne Rubner, entitled “Corruption, Lobbyism and the EU’s finances”. A thick waltz, in it you have listed all this. So let us not be taught by the EU or by the Commission about what we have to do, but let us do it ourselves! The Minister also said perfectly correctly what to do. But I can add a few things. In order for the fight against corruption to work with us, first of all, justice and the fight against corruption must be completely clean. It cannot happen that the lazy apples in the tribe of the justice go in early retirement or disappear silently. That can't happen, there must be a clear sign! I just remember the Causa Ronald S., which I also discussed with your predecessor. With regard to Ronald S., the former head of the Vienna Public Prosecutor's Office, concerning which a true bag of ads has appeared in the media, all who have been recruited for more than ten or twelve years, with thousands of pages of files, the Minister has said here in this House, well, the errors would have been still reasonable legal opinions. [[Abg. May. Stadler: But how long have you watched it? How long?]] - That can't be! I have just mentioned Mr Ronald S., but there are many other cases that you certainly know, not only in justice, but also in administration. It's important: There must be no excuse! To strengthen respect for the law and the joy of being able to work clean, these lazy apples must be picked and not hidden. The second is: We have to admit mistakes. This must be done above all by the government parties, because in this House – I did not decide it, but I experienced it – in 2009 the corruption law was massively softened. The so-called feed provisions have fallen. At that time it said: We must not damage the Salzburg Festival! It can't be that if you're invited to the Salzburg Festival, you'll be suspected of being a corruptionist! – Thus the entire feeding was "cast out". Today, I can have myself paid as third-party officials, as long as I can only make myself credible that I am not now actively taking office. Any administrative officer may be paid monthly by Siemens or IBM or by a newspaper, as does the colleague Scheibner – he may, if he is taxed – as long as he says: Well, I'm not doing anything for them. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Wheeler.]] [[Abg. Wheelers:... the power?]] This is the Austrian legal situation, which is rightly criticized everywhere – if we read it – but which has not been changed to date. I miss the law to fix it at the table. And then, of course, one that is very important, and that is the area between justice and politics. This is the corruption of the Austrian media landscape through today's advertising practice. Of course, it can't be that the media, who would actually say the detectors – Mrs. Fekter, the watchdog to use her favorite word – should be the watchdog against corruption, that those who want to keep the watchdog from the body are fed and paid with ads. With this, we are putting everything on the head, and with that the democratic control of corruption is no longer working. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e7682	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Steinhauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e7703	Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Rechtsminister, you have quoted very detailed from the report of the European Commission. Interestingly, you have not quoted two sentences. One is as follows: ‘Some Member States have still not implemented the main anti-corruption instruments in international law.’ The second sentence you did not quote is: There is a “lack of political will of the political (...) decision-makers to take action against all forms of corruption (...). I suspect that you did not quote the sentences because you know that Austria is also meant to be – and that is exactly the crucial point. The case of sin took place in Austria in 2009 when the strict anti-corruption rules were imposed. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I would like to quote what Dr. Bogensberger said about this case at the time – you have to know, Mr. Dr. Bogensberger was opposed to advocating strict anti-corruption sanctions and was therefore also replaced by the then Minister of Justice Bandion-Ortner. What does former section head Bogensberger say about this cording? – He gave a farewell speech on the occasion of his departure. He says: “One of the less successful legislative processes is probably the anti-corruption law,” – the law did not say, but that was the assessment of the head of the section at that time – “with the uncannyly openly expressed wishes of potent feeders and the financially dependent institutions of theirs, I think, was all too readily in line.” So he confirms that at the time the lobbyists in the Ministry of Justice put the Turkish left in their hands in order to achieve a change of law. – Then he continues to say: “This law was also a low point in formal terms, because it had initially been prepared outside the house in a strange distance from the in-house criminal law.” That is, the highly sensitive anti-corruption package, which has been innovationd, was not prepared by the criminal law in the Ministry of Justice, but it was obviously outsourced to anyone for lawmaking. I do not want to know which lobbyists participated in this law. – Then he continues to say: “We in the criminal legislation were able to overcome either later or the worst craft deficits in this out-of-house draft, but satisfied or even proudly did not ultimately make us any content or type of condition of this law.” And then he goes on to say: “And today it turns out that although feeders and feeders can smile at each other in a symbiotic way, the law is still very detrimental to the international reputation of Austria. This seems to be taken away from what I interpret as an expression of a certain anti-international principle." And that's exactly the problem: Austria was no matter what is being said internationally about this renunciation of the corruption penalty package, it is mainly in line with the lobbyists in the country. The SPÖ has agreed, the ÖVP has agreed, but FPÖ has also agreed. To this end, I am not surprised that today the ÖVP points to the FPÖ, the FPÖ points to the SPÖ and the SPÖ again points to the ÖVP. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: And where do you show up?]] This is the moral image, ladies and gentlemen, that you are giving. We want something else in this republic: We want a restart, because nothing is more harmful than a situation in which confidence in democracy is lost. And, Mrs. Justice Minister, I am pleased that you may enter into the alliance of those who want to restart, if you propose that the crime of feeding be finally renewed. But it will not be enough for you to suggest that Parliament does, because there is already a round of talks, and one thing has always been clear: In this round of discussions on the corruption penalty regulations, we must talk about everything, but not about feeding up 2009, not about feeding. We have asked for this several times, and SPÖ and ÖVP have declared unisono, because there will be no change, feeding remains a phenomenon, there will be no aggravation. If you're serious, you're gonna put a novel! We will support you, but we will measure you by your own words. And that's not supposed to be beautiful weather words, but there's going to need a novelle. Only such a restart is possible. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen, those who defend democracy must fight corruption. Nothing is more detrimental to democracy than to political decision-makers. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e7771	Next speaker: Mr Grosz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e7793	High house! Those who have as much butter in mind as Austria on the subject of corruption should not trust themselves under the Brussels sun and should also be very silent when it comes to corruption in Brussels; for what we have experienced over the last weeks and months or even the last 40 years – popularly said – does not fit into a hat box. Ladies and gentlemen, corruption from Austria is also known in Brussels, and the cases are also known. Strasser, Rainer, Hans-Peter Martin: Austrian Members, sent to Brussels, who have brought shame on our country. That is why I say to you: As long as we are unable to finally create order in our own field, we need not talk much here in this House about the corruption of candidate countries such as Croatia in the future, as long as we are not at last able to guarantee an honest, a transparent, decent government and become a decent republic. [[Abg. May. Kogler: That's what we're talking about!]] [[OBJECTIVES]] Therefore, I do answer with Matthew, chapter 3 verse 12: [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Wheeler: Hey!]] “He will certainly keep the shovel in his hand; he will separate Spreu from wheat and bring the wheat into his barn; but he will burn the spray in the never-degrading fire.” Ladies and gentlemen, that is what we want: We want a permanent committee of inquiry, a permanent committee of anti-corruption in Parliament, also in the manner of the Holy Inquisition, so that this Republic can finally regain its status and character in the political bodies, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This is important, because when we talk about propriety and character, about tax-money scandals, we should also talk about a scandal that has not yet been illuminated here in this House. Ladies and gentlemen of Raiffeisen, I would like to address you directly: Mr Auer, Member of Parliament, Mr Ferry Maier, Mrs Höller, Mr Karl Donabauer, ladies and gentlemen, Mr ÖVP Raiffeisen Members: The Raiffeisen Group received from the then Minister of Finance and Vice Chancellor of the Republic of Austria, Josef Pröll, €1.75 billion tax money cash and additional €4.25 billion tax money as liability, also financed by the citizens of the country. 6 billion €, ladies and gentlemen of Raiffeisen in the ÖVP, in disgraceful lobbyism you have thrown the Raiffeisen Group into the throat, and a few months later, after his departure from politics, the Mr. Josef Pröll will suddenly become the board of directors of the Leipnik-Lündenburg-Gesellschaft of the Raiffeisen-Group. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Donnerbauer]] A finance minister who bought his future existence with tax money, and that at €6 billion – and you are talking about €2 billion at Eurofighter, ladies and gentlemen? [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Yes, also a scandal that is revealed, but I ask you not to leave something out of the lot here, Ladies and gentlemen, and to overlook the need for tax money from a Minister of Finance to secure his future personal existence! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] This Raiffeisen group, which together with the ÖVP is in danger of being condemned in this Republic after the Mafia paragraph – the formation of a criminal association, ladies and gentlemen (the speaker puts a table with the following text on the speaker's desk: “To banks & speculators: “For they sow wind and are reaping storm.” (Hosea 8:7) Enoughly paid!, this Raiffeisen group responds to posters of the BZÖ, on which Joseph Bucher rightly addresses banks, speculators and the EU – who sows wind will reap storm – which forms that over Raiffeisen a scandal against Herbert Scheibner is constructed that Raiffeisen issues bank data to heat up a scandal against a member of the opposition who has nothing to blame for in his political career. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] Ladies and gentlemen, are you still talking about scandal? If you and your comrades are using an Austrian bank to take action against a Member, are you still talking about character and propriety? - I'll tell you one thing: Whoever sows wind will reap storm! For your flatulences and those of your Raiffeisen group will be You will reap an autumn storm, with a permanent investigation committee in which we will reveal your painterries in the future, but also the painting of an acting Federal Chancellor and a State Secretary and another three SPÖ ministers, against which the public prosecutor of the Republic of Austria is determined. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Not any members of the opposition of blue, green or orange determine, no, but a prosecutor of the Republic of Austria, who will soon enter and leave the Federal Chancellery and perhaps still confiscate the contents of the office of the Federal Chancellor. Yes, is this a good signal that we deliver to Europe a good signal that we deliver to the people of our country, that corruption has taken place at the head of the state and this Parliament is not against it?- Oh, my God! Therefore, I would ask you to agree to our request to set up an investigation committee today. Today, we, Ewald Stadler, Josef Bucher and I, will make a request to set up an investigation committee. We will also insist that a permanent anti-corruption committee in this country, which cannot be turned off by red and black, will finally bring cleanliness back to this country, so that the Austrians do not rightly say that all politicians are criminals, and perhaps at the end of the day they will still be right. The decent politicians in this House will stand out from the indecent, and the spray will burn in the never-lost fire of an anticorruption committee. – Thank you!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e7920	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Lugar. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e7941	Mr President. High house! If you follow the excited debate and look at the newspaper reports, you almost have the impression that it is surprising to some in this country what we are currently experiencing. It seems to many that there is a surprise that there is corruption, up to the highest circles. Only: Who really surprises you? Who is surprised when you know that corruption has probably existed for as long as humanity itself? – Corruption has always existed. To analyze this somewhat more calmly, one needs to consider which two factors favour corruption. First of all, this is the opportunity to gain an advantage – the first factor. The second factor is the willingness to do the same; and that is exactly where you can put it. On the first point, the possibility of providing me with benefits, it is difficult to do, because every politician has more or less the opportunity to gain benefits. Whether this is the simple MP in the opposition from the back bank series or the government Member or the Minister or even the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, everyone has, in a certain classification, opportunities to gain benefits. Now the question is: Why is not everyone who has the opportunity to do so corrupt? – There are also several possibilities, several variants. There are some, they just have a moral claim to themselves and say I have the opportunity, but I don't do it. That's the ideal case. Unfortunately, we have seen in the past – and here I also mean the older past – that not everyone has such a high moral claim, and there are some, although few, but some who gain this advantage – and that is because they assume to get through with it. And that is exactly where we have to go, ladies and gentlemen. There we are clearly too halfhearted. If anyone who benefits does not have to expect to get through with it, what do you think, how many more will do that then? – There are simple examples. There are areas where the break-in rate was immensely high. That's where you just put a policeman at every corner. What do you think happened? – The break-in rate virtually went against zero because everyone had to expect to be caught. The same is true in politics, and so it is in other areas of society: If someone has to expect to be caught, he'll think about it three times. That is why we need a close network and perfect transparency, and the higher the position, the more transparent things need to be. In other words, a simple member of the opposition does not need to reveal as much as a Commissioner in the European Union or a minister. It will only change if we are prepared to inspire every minister for complete transparency. I don't mean to publish the data on the Internet. It is not a matter of anyone else what the minister concerned is doing, but I mean, for example, the corruption prosecutor's office all the data to reveal all the account movements, because then you see immediately when any irregularities happen. I know this won't be easy, I know no one likes to look into his books, but it won't be different. If we honestly want to prevent corruption – and I mean corruption for the future – and I believe it is about it, then we have to jump over this shadow and allow absolute transparency in all areas, and I also mean party funding. If we are not ready to do so, then this mud battle, which is being carried here, where one fits the other, where one sees corruption everywhere, and is tried to pull everyone down into the swamp of corruption, will ultimately only lead to the people turning away with shame and assuming that every politician has dirt on it. I know that at least 90 percent – at least 90 percent – of politicians have a very high moral claim to themselves, and the few who give themselves benefits all draw us down. That's why: If we don't want the saying of my father-in-law, who once said: If you put all politicians in a bag and get out there, you never meet the wrong one!, will come true if we don't want the population to think that, then we must allow absolute transparency. The network must be so close that everyone – whether this is a member of the opposition, a member of the government or a minister – must assume that he will be caught if he does things that are crooked. The network must be so close that it is guaranteed. If we do, then we can say that in the future there will be no corruption, at least no more with the Members and with the ministers, and then we have already moved a lot, and the reputation of politics will rise again.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e7998	No one is reporting on this. I'll close the debate. [[12:07:12]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e8020	With regard to the negotiating items and their allocations, I refer, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Apart from the 24-hour lead-out period
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e8163	Ladies and gentlemen. In order to be able to negotiate item 13 of the agenda, it is in accordance with § 44 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure required to waive the 24-hour deadline for the setting up of the Committee's report. It is the report of the Committee on Immunities on the request of the Public Prosecutor's Office in Vienna for approval of the official persecution of the MP to the National Council of Herbert Scheibner. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to the removal from the time-limit for this committee report, to give a corresponding sign. – This is unanimously accepted. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e8193	It is also proposed that the debate on points 5 to 8 of the agenda be summarized. Are objections raised? - That's not the case. Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e8215	The BZÖ-Klub has in accordance with § 93 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure asked for the written question 9287/J by Mrs Bucher, colleagues and colleagues to the Federal Minister for Finance concerning 'Finally paid for EU Member States, banks and speculators! People’s vote now!” to treat urgently. Under the Rules of Procedure, the urgent question will be carried out at least three hours after receipt of the agenda, i.e. at 15.09 a.m. [[12:08:57]] Time-limitation request
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e8239	Before entering the agenda, I shall also inform you that the Members of Parliament, Dr. Stummvoll, have requested the Financial Committee to report on the Federal Act amending the Balance of Payments Act, 1390 of the Supplements, a deadline of up to 27. ==References== In addition, this is the case of five delegates, according to § 43 para. 3 the request made by the Rules of Procedure to hold a brief debate on this request for a time limit. As this meeting called for urgent debate on a written question, the brief debate will take place following this one. [[12:09:10]] Notice of applications for the establishment of an investigation committee
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e8268	Deputies Dr. Pilz, colleagues and colleagues have, in accordance with § 33 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure requested the use of an investigative committee to investigate the political responsibility for corruption under the Black and Blue Government. There is also the request made by five Members to hold a debate on this request. In addition, in accordance with § 33 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure requests the establishment of an investigative committee for the comprehensive examination of indirect and direct flows of money without any consideration to the direct environment of politicians and political parties in the cases of Telekom, BUWOG, public service radio and ÖBB listings. There is also the desire of five Members to hold a debate on this request. Members also have Dr. Rosenkranz, colleagues in accordance with § 33 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure requested the setting up of an investigative committee on the investigation of corruption. There is also a desire from five Members to hold a debate on this request. Since the subject-matter of the three applications for the establishment of a committee of inquiry is similar, I will proceed in agreement with the applicants in the sense of a practice practiced in these cases, namely that the three applications are first justified and the debate is conducted under one. According to § 33 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure shall be debated and put to the vote after completion of the agenda. Let's go into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e8314	A consensus was reached between the members of the presidential conference on the duration of the debates. Accordingly, a day block time of 6 “Vienna hours” has been agreed. There are the following speaking times: SPÖ and ÖVP per 84 minutes, FPÖ 75 minutes, Green 66 minutes, BZÖ 63 minutes. I propose that the speaking time of Members without club membership be limited to 10 minutes per debate. We shall now proceed to the vote on the speaking time just presented. If you agree to this proposal, I would ask for a sign on this point. – This is unanimously accepted. [[12:11:44]] 1. Point Report of the Family Committee on the Sixth Report of the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs, Family Affairs and Youth on the situation of young people in Austria (III-248/1269, D.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e8356	We'll get to the 1st. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Kitzmüller. — (DE) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e8383	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, listeners here in the house and at home on the televisions! Although the government's recent report on the situation of young people in Austria is better than the one we have been presented in 2007, it is far from what we imagine under a youth report. Some topics have not been dealt with at all. For example, it is not mentioned that the educational situation is worse, and consequently the tendency to extremism, as far as religious actions are concerned, is greater among the migrant youth of the second and third generations than with their parents who are already here but are still born in the Muslim country. The real situation of the Muslim girls, the migrants has not been represented, nothing of the fact that they are shown to not reach the same level of education as the male migrants. They fail to do so, they are gone after compulsory schooling, they are no longer found. They are married in Germany and abroad and are no longer there. In this context, the composition of the Committee of Experts should also be questioned. It is welcome that, in addition to scientists and experts in youth work, young people also have the opportunity to participate in this committee of experts. However, it is very questionable why in this representation, in this committee, only a youth representative of the Muslim community finds hearing and can cooperate. There is nothing against the fact that these gentlemen and ladies are also heard and cooperate there, but then we also want our young people to speak of our representations here or also to sit representatives of religious communities in this body and to be given this hearing. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] The Committee of Experts also very correctly concludes that the Convention on Children is important. Yes, it is important, but, ladies and gentlemen, in this context, one must emphasize specifically that the right of children to both parents, to father and mother, who is around and up for the good of youth, for the well-being of children and our families. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In particular, the state has to be taken into account here – and I must stress very clearly here – that there are also sufficient financial bases. are to be able to live as a family that is provided with appropriate basic care. In view of the tax rules we have in the Austrian middle class, the question is whether this is the case. Family support may not be the case here if one looks at the situation of the employed taxpayers. Specially the single earners are still employed at the back and stay on the track. Ladies and gentlemen, as young people, families and children cannot be separated at all, I put forward a motion for a resolution by Mr Kitzmüller and other Members: The National Council wants to decide: ‘The Federal Government is invited to submit to the National Council, as soon as possible, a government document providing for a discharge of families by introducing a family tax-sharing model.’ We have also done some preliminary work on this, and you, ladies and gentlemen, are happy to be able to borrow from us and include our proposals here. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] As a means of improving the situation of young people, the youth report focuses exclusively on youth welfare, open mobile youth work and youth social work. Ladies and gentlemen, you know the situation in youth welfare, you know what's in the arsenal. And if you sit on this horse, you've lost once and you're in the back of the race. The term “family” is hardly mentioned in this final report, it is mentioned a maximum of ten times, and then they only find it in connection with problems, violence, addiction and family interventions. This is a view which devalues the entire report, because it is not an objective view, but an ideological and blinded point of view. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] All young people who have been questioned – and this is also to be read in this youth report – wish for a family, but the term does not appear very much. So, ladies and gentlemen, allow these young people to start a family too! Finally, it remains to be noted that the youth very much granted freedom, it needs freedom. But in line with this, families need an ideal and financial strengthening, but they do not need what is happening in this committee of experts, a nationalization or a left-wing ideology.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e8483	The motion for a resolution tabled is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e8546	Next speaker: Mrs Steibl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e8567	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen who are still here in the Chamber! Mrs Kitzmüller, I think you were still in the European hour with your language. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] I think it is good to have a reasonable discussion on this youth report right now and not to throw it into a pot and make it bad. The Sixth Youth Report was adopted by the Ministry of Economic Affairs, Family and Youth with a new approach, a new path has been chosen, and we have also been involved in Members who are in the Family Committee and who have been working for some time. That is to say, there is for the first time an interdisciplinary approach that provides a broad insight into the really comprehensive topic of youth and youth policy. In contrast to previous reports, where an institute has prepared this report, an independent committee of experts, consisting of experts from science and practice, has been involved with more than 50 persons acting from different research institutions. This report shows very clearly that youth policy is a cross-cutting matter. It is all the more important that our responsible Federal Minister has the opportunity to engage in cross-sector cooperation on this subject. It won't be different because you can't do it in a place. This is similar to that in women's or family policies, which are cross-cuttingalities that need to be processed across borders. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Of course, we know that not everything in this report is positive – no, then it would not be a good report – but it also shows potential for improvement. This too must be given a report, because we do not buy a report that is sky blue and pink, but it is about facts and future design. And this youth report is not a conclusion, but a basis for forward-looking work within the meaning of our young people and a knowledge-oriented policy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] On the content of the report: The report gives a lot and is a really good reading, not only in the evening, but perhaps even now during the plenary session, if you want to get into a good reading. This is about the life situation of young people, starting with developmental psychological areas on youth, education, work into the health field. It shows how youth work in Austria is reflected in its structures, access and methods. That family and friends have an enormously high priority, we see and hear everyone we are on the road talking to young people. And so that the political interest of young people increases again – I hope, after the two current hours that we have just completed, it will not sink again – it must be a task for us to be a model for motivating young people to carry them into politics – a democracy lives on by people – so that they can get involved. I want to return to the settings and values: The Youth Monitor, carried out on behalf of our Minister for Family and Youth Reinhold Mitterlehner, has also brought me very positive results. He shows that young people have a very high concept of family and friends that they like to be at home that they want a family – in whatever form; there must not always be father and mother in a family association, there are also other forms. It would still be a lot to say on this subject, but only the following: I mean, the parents bear responsibility, father and mother, they need to look to the future and they must not leave the children and young people to themselves. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] We have the responsibility to accompany them to the adult world. And politics is responsible for creating the necessary framework conditions, for example for childcare, for example with the Free Kindergarten, where we continue to provide 70 million for the countries each year, for schools, training areas and much more. To sum up, I would like to say that young people are faced with many new challenges in the context of social change. Family and friends, I have already mentioned, are the most important for 70 percent of young people aged between 14 and 24. That is, a good family policy is a foundation pillar, a pillar for our youth, but also for Austria. And we from the ÖVP show that families, children, young people are worth something to us and will continue to work on this family policy, together with our family minister, whom we like to strengthen our backs.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e8643	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Lugar. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e8664	Mr President. I spoke today on the subject of youth, because this is a topic of the future, which, however, does not correspond to what the government is currently doing, is not a future policy, but would be necessary to give the youth the necessary armor to cope with the problems of the future. [[Abg. Hörl: The BZÖ dissolves slowly!]] We face huge challenges: Our pension system is just ahead of the collapse. The health system is no longer to be financed. The administration is far too expensive and must be reformed. The countries have competences that must finally be taken from them, and, and, That means that there are unlikely many problem areas, many construction sites, and all these construction sites have to eliminate the boys once because we are apparently unable to do the homework here. In connection with the education of young people I must note that it is now so that up to 20 percent of school leavers do not even control the simplest cultural techniques, such as reading, writing, calculating. [[Abg. Amon: There are more!]] The ÖVP says it's more. More than 20 percent cannot read, write and count properly! That's where I ask you: How does that work? How are young people – and the number of young people who eventually enter the work process – to fall with their narrow shoulders with such a training with a huge increase in the number of pensioners? - I can tell you it won't work. My brother, who has an installation business in Vienna, is no longer possible to find suitable apprentices. There come potential apprentices, compulsory school leavers who cannot even solve the simplest calculation tasks that cannot even write a proper sentence. My brother is, as I said, installer, and the requirements he sets are anyway not God knows how high. I wonder, How should we deal with the challenges of the future with such an education system? . I can tell you that we will not master them and that we will fall back in an international way, and that is exactly the point I want to put forward. The government does not accept future issues. The government wrangles from one day to the next. It's turned a little bit, it's turned a little bit, it's a little bit of money being shifted, so that everything's going on somehow, but no one's thinking about the next 10, 20 years. Apparently no one sees where the whole thing goes. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] It is precisely these points that are mentioned in the youth report: the education system, the lack of prospects in many areas. All of this is inside, but nothing happens. And why is nothing happening? – I can only explain this to myself: What we are now committing to the young people – and this is a crime – really makes itself felt only in 10, 15, 20 years, and apparently some hope that then they will no longer be in this high house, perhaps already be in retirement, perhaps even enjoying a political board. And that's not why it's so urgent. Responsible policy would mean that we accept the issues of the future, and that is what we expect. It is no wonder that if we are unable to do this, people turn away from us that people say: Okay, you only enrich yourself, but when it comes to moving something positive for the future, you fail! Now I have to make a revelation here: I'm a lobbyist, too. I'm a lobbyist! I have to make this revelation today. I am a lobbyist for my children, who are now five and six years old. My six-year-old is going to school, and I'm a lobbyist of my son, and I want him to get a proper education. I don't want to put him in a private school so he can learn something at all. That means I'm a lobbyist and I'm only responsible for my children, no one else. And that's why: If we do not manage to solve the problems of the future, and if we do not do so immediately, then our children will have to do so. And then one day my son will ask me: Dad, why did you let us get worse than you did then? – That is exactly what would happen, and I would like to avoid that.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e8720	Next speaker: Mrs Lueger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e8741	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen in the gallery and in front of the TV screens! The written paper we are discussing here in the plenary room today is the youth report. As early as 1988, a resolution called for the respective minister to produce a report on the situation of young people once per legislative period. This order is also linked to collecting data, facts and figures. This is the first time that experts have also come to mind, and the whole report has been divided into two parts, on the one hand, there is this expertise of science and on the other hand the report of the trainees on youth work. We had at the meeting of the Family Committee on 21 January. June the opportunity to discuss with experts and, in part, writers of this expertise, to carry out a hearing with them. In my remarks, I would like to focus on education, training and the transition to and entry into work. Education in the most diverse forms of education and training is presented for lower and upper secondary education, but also for postsecondary and tertiary education. However, learning is not exclusively through a formal education programme, and the data situation shows that informal learning is simply not tangible for young people – not only for young people, but also for adults. The diversity of schools, types and location profiles given by regional differences often leads to a lack of clarity and disorientation, which makes it very difficult for young people on the one hand to choose, but also to the parents who are to advise young people on the other. This report provides a good basis for examining whether there are equal rights, equal access for all young people. These would also significantly improve mobility and the actual permeability between the different interfaces in Austria. The aim must be to use the potential of young people and not to waste away from these interfaces by selecting them. As part of this study, the Upper Austria Chamber of Workers has a survey of young people between 15 and 24 years of age. This survey is based on an analysis of the distance from education and education of young people. And there we are all required to think on different levels. Both families, training and advice centres, associations and schools are required to support young people. However, this cannot always be done by public means, and in part it must also be designed in such a way that young people have their framework where they know that they have our support. It is also important for us to set a public sign, to send a signal that we are working together for young people. Most of the young people who have graduated from compulsory school then go into a teaching profession – and even there are disparities, namely spatial, gender-specific and young people with or without migration backgrounds. If the young people finally land on the labour market, then, I could say so now, they are in a good situation in Austria in Europe; but this does not benefit any unemployed young people and no unemployed young people. That is why we need to take a close look at this. Minister of Social Affairs Hundstorfer has intervened properly with his programmes. I mention here only the training guarantee and the over-company workshops, which are the first good approaches. However, it is also required of the economy. It's not enough just to cry out that you don't have any experts. The economy is also required to continue training. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Then how does the introduction into the world of work look like? – The entry into the professional world often takes place in the form of an unpaid internship to the professional world or that you have a precarious job as the first entry in order to get a fixed job. What's the result? – Young people have a high poverty risk, they are unable to start a family themselves, and the debt is one of the main points. I believe that this report provides us with figures, data, facts, but we need to think about many levels. You, Mr. Minister, spoke in the summer of the day about making a family start. I would like a youth revolution, but we must have an active youth policy. I wish I could, and I am also willing to work to ensure that, on the basis of this report, an up-to-date youth strategy is drawn up. Then we can achieve the goals we want for our young people in the future. Only two sentences on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Kitzmüller on family tax division. It has been shown that a family in which both parents work and do not earn much exactly nothing of it, that a family in which there is a middle-level income would benefit about €5 from the family division – there are statistics – that for this there would be a small part of it and that those families in which there is a single earner who deserves well would benefit most of it. [[Abg. Ing. Höbart: Who says that?]] There are your single earners, Mrs. Kitzmüller, not in at all. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kitzmüller.]] And that is why we will certainly reject this request.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e8808	Next speaker: Mrs Windbüchler-Sushill. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e8830	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Minister! In each round of discussions with young people, in every discussion with young people, I would like to ask the question: Who is responsible for the interests of young people on the government bank in Austria? – The young people look at me with a lot of eyes, and then again and again, Federal Minister Hundstorfer, for example, as Minister of Social and Labour, who is responsible for youth unemployment, or Federal Minister Schmied, who is responsible for education and education, but never – never! – Minister Mitterlehner, responsible for family, business and youth. [[Abg. May. Hakl: Turn around and look!]] And this, ladies and gentlemen, is significant for youth policy in Austria. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Ing. Höbart: If he were to create jobs for young people at least!]] It is already a revelation, and the youth report reveals this fact, this fact that there is no focused youth policy, as well. The youth report contains a huge number of recommendations that – and that would not be so difficult at all – can be implemented, which could be discussed and implemented with one another, quite apart from the coalition. But nothing happens. The speeches just given here – I don't know if you noticed it – were quite clear: You have to do a lot. There is a lot to be done to implement a lot of measures and recommendations! – But nothing is done, ladies and gentlemen. And that's what reveals, that's what the young people are doing in the public debate, and also what the experts in the youth report clearly criticise: the lack of focus on the youth policy of this federal government. [[Abg. Ing. Höbart: There is no focus at all!]] The topics in the youth report were very clear: Education and work, interests and values, health and delinquency, youth work, youth welfare et cetera – and quite a lot of recommendations on this. Yes, the youth report is a good basis, a good status, a good basis for setting clear frameworks for which policy is also responsible. One example is the protection of young people. There is an extremely long history on the harmonisation of youth protection. For information again: We still have nine youth protection laws so far. The best example of this is the Semmering, Lower Austrian-Steiric border. When young people drive snowboarding or skiing there, they need to see where the border is. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, the border is not marked. On the one hand, they have to be at home earlier, on the other, on the one hand, they are not allowed to drink alcohol, on the other. And that can't be it. There is a harmonisation for the whole of Austria. The Minister for Youth is responsible for this, and he should finally do so! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] To the Child and Youth Assistance Act: Today, the Vorarlberg Committee of Experts and Experts has once again assembled on the radio that there are no federal uniform regulations on child and youth assistance. This decision was postponed once again to 2012. Now, in fact, we have – in the drawer of the minister that would have to be – a great design, at that time still developed under Minister other than Kdolsky's service with experts and experts. It wouldn't be so difficult at all: You can simply implement this draft together with the youth welfare agencies! It would not be difficult, but it will be postponed once again. It also looks like the recognition of children's and young people's rights: Here, too, clear implementation has been postponed. The report clearly states that youth poverty is increasing, that it is very dangerous – that is an alarm signal, ladies and gentlemen, very much. – and at the same time the recognition of children’s rights is postponed to the long-term. Declaring only a Constitutional Act does not yet mean that there is an implementation, but what it needs is clearly an implementation strategy, a child rights monitoring committee and clear rules and framework conditions. And that just doesn't happen! The recommendations of the Youth Report clearly show that there is a need for permanent ministerial competence and, in fact, a parliamentary youth committee. Our proposal would be to make a subcommittee a family committee to force the clear implementation of the measures, the recommendations contained in the youth report – that is, jointly! This should continue to be discussed. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, the public debate clearly shows that euro-saving, pensions, youth unemployment, integration, diversity policy, youth impact assessment, public debt are all issues that are really relevant for young people, for young people. Again and again, the question is: Where are the boys? – I am convinced: You're here! Then comes the question: Are they misguided? – And I say: No, of course not! But what they are, my very dear ones Ladies and gentlemen, this is: They're system-concealed, they're party system drowners! Every time I hit the newspaper every day I read of alleged pre-debt cases of corruption, of pre-federation cases, possibly economies in my own pocket, of ad circuits instead of punctual trains at the ÖBB, I don't need to wonder, as a politician and politician, that there is this system irration, not at all! [[Abg. Hagen: You forgot something! Vienna, the city of Vienna...!]] This report is a clear opportunity for an active, focused youth policy. It is up to the Minister of Youth to finally become active here!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e8920	President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e8941	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you, Mrs Soushill-Windbüchler, for this really friendly introduction! Somewhere you have the wrong kind of policy mediation, I have the impression, because the same thing you have said now has already been said about a three-quarters of a year ago. [[Abg. Brosz: But this is not the case!]] [[Abg. Windbüchler-Sushill: But you don't change anything!]] I have to tell you quite honestly: If you can't convey this in time, I'm really sorry. I want to save you if I pull the turnaround and say: Who is the green youth representative? – This is a childish level somewhere and not an objective discussion. [[Abg. Windbüchler-Sushill: But I'm not a minister! I can tell you too...!]] I'm really sorry that you don't bring a new record in this regard. [[Abg. Windbüchler-Sushill: You are the Minister, not me!]] The other part of the speech has also appeared to me relatively well-known. [[Abg. Windbüchler-Sushill: It doesn't change anything!]] It has been less concerned with the conclusions of the Youth Report than with your well-known reservations. In this connection, however, I would like to address what others have already noticed. Mrs. Kitzmüller, you said: The youth report is available, and this would not be included in some chapter. . I have to tell you that we have recast the whole report. The composition of the participants and experts has not been influenced or designed by me, the topics have partly also chosen and selected and specified the experts themselves. Therefore, the debate about what is missing is actually not the right way, but the right one would be the confrontation with what is there. That's what I'd say: It is very much there, in relation to the last report, because the last report has explicitly dealt only with the issue of gender. Gender justice is, of course, also an important issue, but this time it is much more interdisciplinary, and, Mrs Soushill, it is now precisely the point. If If you read the report carefully, you'll see that the experts say: Youth policy is not focused, and there is no expectation that it would be the responsibility of a person who needs to make youth policy, but youth policy is defined as a cross-cutting matter, where the federal government, where all the other countries, including the youth institutions, are responsible for it as a whole. [[Abg. Windbüchler-Sushill: You have not read the report!]] [[Abg. Windbüchler-Sushill: And you are responsible!]] If you look at what we have developed here with the youth representation and with others in consulting offers – I have to say: not me, but also others before me – then we are well placed in the area of youth, even with regard to funding for the structure! You can see that less, but you can also read the data if you consider: In the final effect, youth is also in a field of tension, especially with regard to changes in values and social development, also marked by demographics. You see this alone when you think about it: We currently have a share of 21.2 percent in Austria under the age of 20, and 4 percent more in 1988. We have a development towards an old-age society – there is also an APA issue today: We will hardly have more than 18 percent of young people in our age in about 20 years, which naturally raises certain questions regarding how we finance our social institutions, how we finance other elements of policy and develop distribution accordingly. In this context, it is – and it is often quoted – simply incorrect that there would be a certain political obscurity and there would be. I don't know if you see it like that, but I notice it at the e-mails, at the calls, at the discussion events. – By the way, Mr Lugar: When you talk about examples and “crime” in youth and so on, I think that is not the right language either. You should also be somewhat more adequate in the area. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Back to the political interest: We have a trend that looks so that in 2004 9 percent of the surveyed 16-18-year-olds were very interested in politics. In 2008, it was 23 percent who were very interested. That is, the element that a person may not agree with much of what is happening now may be true, but the youth is quite ready to intervene in the design itself before being designed. I think this is very positive. Even our decisions on what the electoral age is about to take – to reduce it to 16 years – show a real development. As the youth report also confirms, the debate on politics is increasing, we have an election that is better than adults. In other words, we have a positive statement about democracy – and we have also been asked about it in the framework of the youth report. Of course, there are system development needs, but in principle youth is positive about democracy. In the context: Of course, we will also have discussions about the use of the Internet – the “pirates” are a term for all of you from last Sunday – but of course these tendencies will also have their impact in the direction of better cooperation between young people. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to concentrate on presenting the positive. Much is included in the youth report. I do not think this is further, we see it anyway, in particular as regards the debate and also the positive attitude towards the system as a whole, but I would like to devote myself to the most important areas of problem, because it can also be derived from the need for action. The first and most important subject is certainly the whole question of education, training and work. We are pleased to note that: As far as the overall development of the labour market is concerned, our young people have found training places even in the economic crisis. We have the lowest youth unemployment across Europe for months – for you, a matter of course, for us also a proof that businesses and employees have the right attitude and that the conditions are not wrong. Of course, we already have the problem that we simply see correlations, for example, the correlation that someone who breaks down his schooling is much more at risk of unemployment. In general, we have the well-known 7.8 percent I have mentioned here; if that is not the case, we have the situation of 29 percent unemployed. This means that school leaving is one of the most important causes of unemployment. We have the problem at all that every tenth of the 18 to 24 year olds do not have a degree beyond compulsory school. In other words, our efforts must be aimed at putting in place overall and putting in place the right measures. In this context, the experts have suggested, among other things, that parents should also be involved in training issues, but also in education issues, because this naturally promotes a positive development. Therefore, with our offers we start relatively early. What do we mean by that? – Professional guidance and professional guidance. The job coaching begins in youth work, which I believe is really well positioned throughout Austria. In other words, those who work in youth help as first-time consultants in the field of entry-level problems and in many cases make the appropriate professional decision. We have the “Jobtalks 2.0” seminars and workshops for the safe and effective use of the Internet, as previously addressed in politics, also on educational and professional issues. We have great career opportunities, we have the promotion of soft skills in the framework of youth work as a place of non-formal learning of 6.3 million annually. I do not want to list all the measures now, but it should simply be countered and the effort made not to do so, as if there were no offers, no policies and no opportunities in the field of youth. On the contrary, we are also in the top of Europe from the figures. Second point: As far as health, sport and quality of life are concerned, I believe that we are already finding some approaches where we need to do something or do more. We have a relatively high level of living in the 11-15-year-olds, but it is marked by a collapse from the 13th century onwards. Age in the case of addictions, especially in the case of smoking, but also in the case of alcohol. That is to say in clear text, the youth does not start with 16 or 17 years of age, but usually with alcohol and smoking at 12 or 13 years of age. The ratio of those who so to speak opt for these activities, for these addictions, remains relatively constant at age. That means in the clear text: If we succeed in starting here and pushing down the quota, we will also get a better grip on the problem of smoking or alcohol as a whole. For example, we follow the recommendations of the Youth Report – because this was suggested here – in order to participate in the child and health dialogue and in the development of national framework health objectives, with this being done interdisciplinaryly, in particular with the Ministry of Health, because there is a need for an overall approach here. There is also what the addiction prevention is about, in recent years professional offers from the ARGE addiction prevention, but also from others, and there are projects in, for example, “Risk & Fun”, which makes it possible to promote risk competence in the sense that you need to know and know what you are doing and what you don’t do. We have the topic field “Values – Love – Performance – Hopes” where I believe that as far as the values are concerned, very important foundations and attitudes are to be found, which are extremely interesting. We have also been confirmed by the youth monitor that Professor Filzmaier makes for us. What can be derived from it and also from the youth report? – That the youth has a relatively traditional understanding of values: As far as friends are concerned, as far as the longing for family is concerned, we have a return to traditional values. That means, of course, one has to deal with the issue of financing, and we do. Whether the question of splitting, as provided for in the application, is the ideal option, remains. I do not want to finalise it, but the possibility or probability that there are better tax opportunities here should be discussed at least, and this is also the subject of reflection, at least in our party. Young people also long for happy relationships, and they have a high degree of performance. There are also problems in the area. Then, if someone is not satisfied, but also out of other motives, at least one third of the 13 to 15-year-old students are on and on, at least once have behaved violently, with male youths having a higher tendency to use violence. That is why we are also strongly committed here, in the department and in cooperation with other departments, with advice, with the promotion of, for example, parents, with educational measures to strengthen educational competence. For example, we have 90,000 participants there each year, we issue the parents' letters, we have our own website in the area. We have 390 family advisory services, 94 of which are advisory bodies with emphasis on violence, child protection centres, women's and men's advisory services. So there is a really good offer here. The “Responsible to Violence” platform coordinates the work of 45 relevant organisations. There are a number of common cross-sectional projects. – I don’t want to be verbal anymore. If you are interested: If you are a specialist, you know it anyway, otherwise we can tell you in detail. However, as we live in a consumer world, the report also strongly shows that the debt, the tendency to consume, is increasing as young people must increasingly use the advisory services. In 2006, for example, every fifth of the over-indebted clients of the advisory services in Upper Austria was younger than 25, in other federal states as well. The first bank transfer takes place in the majority of young people, at 64 percent, from 16 years of age, only 5 percent indicate an earlier date. So something must have happened if we deal with it like that. That means in the clear text that... [[Abg. May. Schwentner: Yes, in the system something is wrong!]] Please? [[Abg. May. Schwentner: In the system something is wrong!]] It's always something wrong with the system or school education. There could also be something wrong in society, or in society, and here the corresponding point of approach. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have said this because there are also great advice and coach offers in the area of debt. But, in reality, it will only be with this – with consultation of the symptoms that are already present – to combat the implementation which unfortunately already exists – of course, it will not be done. That is why our efforts and also that of the European Union, particularly in the field of participation – democracy and participation in the field - have been addressed, but above all, it is about the better life of cross-sectional competence in the field. Therefore, at European level, more connection, and the same also – because this has already been noted here – in the youth strategy. We are working on a youth strategy in which generation justice is an important point, but also – as recently suggested by State Secretary Kurz, this is also in the government programme – the youth impact assessment. In the final effect, it is not only an important point for laws to examine the orientation before and thus avoid some kind of impact, but also to be able to achieve most of the, even as far as the finances are concerned, as far as the attitudes are concerned, probably when you start to do so in a timely manner. Ladies and gentlemen, in summary: I believe that the Youth Report offers a number of approaches to further improvements. It is clear – and here we are also in very good cooperation with the youth representatives – that this also requires a joint action in order to achieve a corresponding positive change and even more participation of young people in the design of society as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e9105	Next speaker: Mr Markowitz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e9127	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! I have always thought in the past that it is the custom of the House that the Minister speaks at least at the end, once each group has spoken. Apparently you can now... [[Federal Minister Dr. Mitterlehner: But Mr. Lugar spoke!]] I was just about to say you can't do anything for that. You probably only have to report as a counter-redner, then you are automatically pre-arranged. I think that should be discussed in the future. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: I must expressly protect the Federal Foreign Minister!]] Yeah, right, do it! [[Abg. May. Kogler: If no longer recognizable...!]] [[Further calls.]] Thank you, Mr Kogler, we have now heard. Your statements are written here. In all cases, the report is very comprehensive. In 1988, when the first report came out, it was about 100 pages; now it contains much more and contains a lot of recommendations. However, I am very excited whether the recommended is really implemented. You have raised one point correctly, and this has now been discussed briefly, namely the debt of young people and children. But it's probably also about advertising! If I can only address “spark7”: In this context, young people are specifically and specifically advised to open an account in order to get a start-up capital immediately. We know that this is the beginning of a debt of young people! Here we say: Enough paid, here just belongs to the brake pulled. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] But the BZÖ will make it easier for you anyway by submitting a motion for a resolution calling for a debt brake because, in her last speech, the Minister of Finance also said that we need a strong-stroll fence. – But we need a lot more: We need a pasture fence with a strong current and around a barbed wire, so that the debt brake is respected and therefore not the youth and children, when they get to the world, already carry a backpack of €29,000. That's why we find: Absolutely enough paid! Who should pay it back except for young people and children? That is why we are putting in place a motion for a resolution by Mr Bucher and Mr Markowitz on the introduction of a debt brake for public debt. It says: ‘The National Council wants to decide: "The Federal Minister for Finance is invited, in particular with a view to the importance of this issue for young people, to submit to the National Council, at the same time, a draft decision-making act, which lays down a statutory debt brake for public debt. The level of permitted debt should correspond to the Maastricht criteria of 60 percent of GDP in total debt and 3 percent of GDP in re-indebtedness.” I would ask you to support this widely, because we think that young people and children in particular are already carrying enough of this burden, this burden. If you have heard in the last few days that the rent is increased by 5 percent, that the water charges in Vienna are increased by 30 percent, we do not need to be surprised that the children and the young people of today no longer put children in the world, because they simply can't afford it anymore. [[Abg. Wheelers: Because of the water prices?- Oh, my God!]] You can't make fun of it, colleague. You're mayor, as far as I know, of the ÖVP. You can't just roll everything away. If you just go over the population, there's a payday anyway, and that's the next election day. We'll see how it looks then. An important point we have to address would be a flat-tax model. We need a special relief from the middle class and also from the youth. Otherwise, in the long term there will be only more poor and rich and the middle class we are getting thinner and thinner. We need to be very firm in this area. That is why there is also a motion for a resolution here. We're going to take a very close look at who's voting for it. We believe that we need to encourage the downside with taxes and youth and, above all, to relieve them of sustainable burden. [[Abg. May. Kogler: No taxes, no more expenditure – and no deficit! The BZÖ alone knows how to do that.]] Now the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Why? – The Minister of Finance himself has said that everything needs to be less, simpler and more efficient. [[President Dr. Graf takes over the chairmanship.]] Well, that's how it looks. That would be the goal, and I also expect the Minister to reduce taxes so that people can afford life again in the long term, and that this will also make it possible to implement important points in the report financially and make the whole thing more manageable. That would be the right way for the future, and that would also be the right way for the Austrian youth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e9259	The two motions for resolutions which have just been tabled are sufficiently supported and are under negotiation. The two applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e9358	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Aubauer. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e9379	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Dear guests! It is our concern to open up the best possible opportunities for young people. How do we do that? Thanks be to God the Austrians are living longer and longer, but there are also fewer and less young workers. How does that affect? – The Minister has already mentioned it. This report concludes that social expenditure would shift from boys to the elderly, and the authors warn that a generation conflict could develop. Ladies and gentlemen! Right ahead: We will do everything we can to ensure that there is no conflict between young and old. Our credo: No generation shall live at the expense of the others. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In order for us to succeed, we also need reforms and measures. Our proposal on this: a new generation scan for the budget. Not only will youth tolerance be examined, Minister, but it should also examine the compatibility of the laws for all generations. Why? – We want to know: How do laws affect young and old? How do revenue and expenditure affect each year of birth? The aim is a fair distribution of funds among all generations. It's useful to the boy, and it's useful to the old. Nobody's being taken away. I also expect more clarity, more transparency. And since it's always called, pensioners get sugars and gifts: The annual pension adjustment is a pure deduction of the price. There's no present, and that's fair to the boys. That should be quite clear, too. We want the boys to get fair pensions once. This is in our area of responsibility. If people are always working shorter and living longer, the bill cannot go out. That means we need reforms. Get away with the privileges in the state area! How do you explain to a young apprentice that ÖBBler retires with 53? You can't explain that. The Austrians go on average with 58 in early retirement. That means huge costs for the budget. A year longer work would bring $1 billion. If we were to work Austrians as long as the Sweden – and this is a very social state – then we would even have a budget surplus in the federal government. Yes, you hear right: a budget surplus. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Grosz: Then do it!]] [[Abg. Dolinschek: You have to do that too!]] And with this budget surplus, we could repay debts. That's the right way. Then the boys wouldn't have such a big debt backpack. Ladies and gentlemen! In Austria, young and old cannot be played against each other. Let's get it started! With the efficient structures in education! With the health reform! Get away with pension privileges! Then there's enough for all generations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e9454	Next speaker: Mrs Binder-Maier. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e9475	Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! First of all, thank you very much for this report, which is very extensive. I note, of course, that access to the contents is very different, and is also discussed very differently. This is part of parliamentarianism and therefore it is also correct and necessary, because it is necessary to allow different access. A comment on your comments, Mrs Aubauer: Since 1996, the Austrian Federal Railways have had the rule that these colleagues are insured in the ASVG, that is, for a long time. All other regulations are under way. I think we should let the ÖBBlers work and not burden them with unfair accusations over and over again. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this report provides information on the situation of young people in Austria. The processes and requirements for young people are, of course, very different. Our task is to accompany young people. This report represents, on the one hand, the analysis of living conditions and, on the other, the situation reports. This report also shows the opportunities and prospects for development that children and young people have in Austria. It is also clear that youth policy is not only a policy field, but the problem areas of young people are very, very different. With good concepts, these problems can be addressed in advance, and they will also be met. Much has been done and many measures have been taken for young people in Austria. The report also shows very clearly that different framework conditions have a very significant impact on the prospects for the future of children in Austria. Some of the basic comments to the report: Youth policy affects almost 3 million young people in Austria. The extension of education times makes young people equal to pupils. The age between 18 and 25 years is referred to as a young adult, and this second, post-school phase is often very complicated. Very many areas of life are very undetermined and include many risks. This phase is also characterized by a variety of requirements. Everyone who has youthful adults around her knows what I'm talking about. It's not that easy, and the orientation of young people is often very difficult. The report also shows that young people are dependent on the families and have to take a foothold in their professional lives. Prevention and prevention are thematic areas that are carried out very comprehensively in the report. Prevention is intended to include deterrence on the one hand and, on the other hand, to be really preventive. In many areas prevention has been offered in recent years: Suicide prevention, violence prevention, crime prevention, suicide prevention, to name some. Many projects have been implemented in this context in Austria because it has been shown that preventive measures also have a cost-benefit effect, so prevention is calculated. I just mention some of these measures: the “Healthy School” project, the Vienna project “samara”, addiction prevention, addiction aid, addiction compass. Every euro used for prevention is calculated, important and necessary. I am convinced that Ladies and gentlemen, on the basis of this report, we will continue to work, re-establish concepts, strengthen financial resources, continue to provide human and financial resources, enter into mandatory cooperation, and much more. It seems to me, ladies and gentlemen, that the support, support and support of children and young people is in line with and in addition to the most diverse forms of family life and is absolutely a priority.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e9526	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Schwentner. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e9548	Mr President. Minister! It's a bit strange already! Our youth spokesperson, the green youth speaker Windbüchler-Souschill – now I also say the name correctly – has explained some things that are not understandable in Austria in the youth field, which show tasks that are to be done and that fall into your field. And what are you doing? . They report to us more or less in summary what is in it in the youth report. Of the few Members sitting there, most were in the competent youth committee, in the family committee and therefore know about what is in it. It would therefore be more interesting to continue to discuss what to do on the basis of this report. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This includes, above all, a very large chapter, namely a uniform protection of young people in Austria. How schizophrenic the situation is, not only do parents experience young people like me at present. It is also heard of young people who live on the border, for example at the border of Styria/Burgenland. Then the young people leave in the Styria in the evening in their place, and then after eleven – because in the Styria they can only leave until eleven o'clock – they go to the neighboring village across the border and can stay there until one, and then they somehow sleep with friends. It is certainly not in the sense of those entitled to education that you no longer have an overview and we do not know exactly how it works. There is a disunity that no one can understand – and not even for the young people themselves. They mentioned that young people are interested in politics. That's it. They're very open. One can really talk and talk to them, but at the very point, and this point is happening again and again in youth discussions, there is absolutely no understanding of politics. If it were your EIA heads of state who would prevent a common protection of young people, I would urge you to follow it and make sure that it finally comes to it. A second point – you have referred to it – is the youth impact assessment of all the measures that are now somehow in the room. I think that's good, but I have to say that it sounds like a very big PR bubble. That's a little steamed up now, and then we all say: Yes, it all has to be checked whether it's youthful or not!, but where, please, will that be checked? How will it look? Will it look like gender mainstreaming or gender budgeting? – Then we know, however, that this must be enshrined by law, that there must be very concrete measures that are comprehensible, and that it takes years for it to reach the minds of the experts of each department. We know from the gender budgeting that this is a very tough process. That means: A nice idea, but always just to blow out PR bubbles like soap bubbles, of which I don't think very much. Instead, there are concrete things where you can start. That would be me on the gender issue. You have already mentioned it today, and we have also criticized it in committee. It is nice that it has been discussed throughout the report. I take note of this, but unfortunately the gender issue is missing in very crucial chapters. For example, we are just ahead of the Equal Pay Day. ==References== October it will be so far again this year that women in Austria will be in the 4th century. From October to the end of the year, they do not earn anything more because they earn around a quarter less than the men in the country. We all know that. It is also meant every year around this time and is talking about what does not have to be done. A great deal can be done in your department to ensure that there are measures in this context that are already very early in the way of gender equality and gender balance. I would urge you to look closely at this, because if you don't start very early with the young people, then the sheer will always stay so far apart, because that's the job choice, that's the role understanding. It is also apparent in the report that there is a great need for action in some cases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e9596	Next speaker: Mrs Haubner. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e9617	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This Sixth Youth Report, which is available to us, which was also discussed accordingly in the Committee, makes it clear once again that youth policy is a cross-cutting matter and that, ultimately, all those responsible for politics are required to get involved where young people have their very central life experiences: in the field of education, training, the labour market, leisure, family and in many other areas. However, the Minister must be the driver to ensure that at last, as in women's policy, a little progress is made in youth policy. It is necessary that the framework conditions be suitable for young people so that they can have family life so that they can make good use of their own resources, their own capital, so to speak. We know that they can build up competences. And above all, it is a matter of developing into powerful citizens and, above all, to prepare for the achievement of responsible members of our society. [[Aufgaben bei BZÖ und der Abg. Fürntrath-Moretti.]] The problem of indebtedness has already been addressed several times. We really shouldn't just do this by the way and talk small. Minister! You said: Projects are too few. I'll give you all the right. But what do we really do about it? Would it not also be an approach, particularly in the field of education and training, to teach the economic context, basic knowledge as a consumer more widely? We have a Consumer Protection Committee, and we know a lot there. The adults who are interested can also obtain a lot of information. In training young people in particular, it would be important to provide the necessary knowledge in an appropriate field of training or in addition. Education in all areas is the best way to avoid being pulled over the table. A second area, which has also been mentioned by some and which is also very important to me, is the demographic development, which is very strongly, actually very plausible. It turns out quite clearly that in the next few years we will have a strong break-in with the 15-20-year-olds, especially by 2018. You, Mr. Federal Minister, have already said that the share of young people will fall from 21 percent to 18 percent in the coming years. Before that, politics must not really close its eyes. Mrs Aubauer, I fully agree with what you said. However, I have to say quite honestly: They are members of a party that bears government responsibility. You're not in opposition. If I have government responsibility, I can not only announce it and say: We have to do that, we should. Do it at last! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Finally, do something to slow down this development. Do something, for example, in the pension system. I underline everything you said, and I heard you yesterday in the discussion. At first I did not look and believe that someone from my colleagues from the BZÖ is taking part in the discussion because you have brought these arguments. Do something in the health sector too, in the care sector! But this government of SPÖ and ÖVP is an announcement government, a standstill government. You're so weak in decision-making, you're not reformable. Knowledge alone is too little. Time is running out of it, and we are wasting for young people every chance for the future and will unfortunately leave them with something that they will have very, very difficult to fight with. The Federal Minister for Finance was appointed on 30 July. Fortunately, August during the Alpbach talks said that generation justice will be one of the crucial issues of the future and that it is not up to the future generation to leave a backpack on prestresses. Nonanet! That's quite clear. That's not what any of us want. We have already tabled a proposal on this subject in July, which, of course, has not yet been negotiated. I would therefore like to stress this once again and to support it again and to make the following request in this context: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[BZÖ's condolences.]] One last chapter of the youth report – and I will probably get back to you again because you have heard it so often from me, but I can't spare it from you – is the youth welfare chapter. The experts are very much aware of the role of youth welfare, that parental work is crucial, but that many parents need advice and support measures, and that these advisory and support measures have increased by 37 percent from 1999 to 2006. This says that it is necessary to adapt this Youth Welfare Act from 1989. This needs to be adapted. We cannot work for another twenty years with the same law, especially when it is stated in the report that there are benefits in all federal states, but these benefits are very different in terms of content, in terms of dynamics and in extent. That is why, Mr Federal Minister, even if you have already announced – including in the reply to a written request from us – that in autumn 2012, there will be a new law on youth welfare, or one with a uniform federal framework: Time goes by. Put pressure on the countries too! It can't be that some federal states say: Here we do not pay, we have no money! and that the covenant says: Well, we want to, but the countries don't pay! In the Pleite States we pay billions, but here we cannot spend a few million for our children, for the good of our children, for the protection of our children. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We have also tabled proposals on this subject, and I would ask you not to be here, because the list has long been: Mrs. Kdolsky, Ms. State Secretary Marek, Ms. State Secretary Remler, all of us have promised that the Youth Welfare Act will come now. Promise and not kept! [[Abg. Ing. Hoebart: Never heard and seen again!]] Ladies and gentlemen! We see this report as an important basis, even for us as parliamentary Members, with whom we can work, where we can bring in new ideas. But I also see this report as a cross-party political mission for a generation-oriented policy, without young and old playing against each other, as a task of investing in a future that is important to all of us, but especially to our youth.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e9708	Mr Mitterlehner spoke on a point of view. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e9729	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I am sorry to have to take away speaking time from you now, so to speak, but the subject is too important to me. In this sense, I think it is just too cheap, Mrs Haubner, how you are doing, by describing and saying the issues here, given the importance, given the need for seriosity is finally appropriate speed. Then you count certain responsible persons. To be honest, have you forgotten who in the years 2000 to 2006 was the Minister of Social Affairs from which area he came? And I'm asking you: Was the issue of youth protection not at the time in the government programme? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ursula Haubner.]] Just like that! Then you know the subject of youth welfare very well-being. [[Abg. Ursula Haubner: Yes, eh!]] Then you know the situation of competence very well, and I tell you, the situation of competence in the field... [[Abg. Markowitz: Who's blocked? The ÖVP has blocked!]] [[Abg. Grosz: You've always blocked!]] Cry She's not that much, she won't be better. I think you were the advisor to Herbert Haupt, right? It kind of went wrong. [[Further calls to the BZÖ.]] So I think it's something too easy, then always do everything just by blocking. I just want to figure out what the competence is. It's not an accusation at all, it's just a description. [[Abg. Grosz: I say yes, that's lying if you just say you didn't do anything!]] [[Abg. Grillic: What does “loyal” mean?]] The competence in the protection of young people is with the federal states. We're intense. Just wait, I'm coming to the other one, too. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Schwentner.]] [[Abg. May. Schwentner: No, you can't wait there anymore!]] [[Abg. Grosz: Don't put them down like that!]] Mrs Schwentner, on the subject of youth protection, the problem was that we had such an agreement in April, but the agreement failed because Vorarlberg then voted with the youth organisations. It's about fifty-fifty. And then you disagreed with this change. The change must take place in such a way that either the federal states give up their competence or that there is a 15a agreement. That's just the problem. By the way, I also have to tell you: I think it is right that the issue of youth protection should be resolved because we need uniform standards throughout Austria. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Bravorufe des Abg. Petzner.]] But don't stylize it up to the pop! Today, everyone is already able to retrieve all the information they want via the Internet and otherwise. If a person regularly moves from one state to another, then he easily has an overview if he does not do it regularly, then he can inform himself accordingly everywhere. So I would say that the problem is a bit tightened and the solution is important, but not so crucial. I find youth welfare a little more important. [[Abg. Ursula Haubner: I didn't talk about youth protection, I talked about youth welfare!]] You didn't say it any more, but you already said something else. [[Abg. Ursula Haubner: The Minister is confusing something!]] Mrs Schwentner referred to this. In the case of youth welfare, the problem is similar. Do you know what is needed so that we can implement this four-eye principle, which I consider urgent? – corresponding personnel in the federal states. And the federal states say: Friends, you have so many right laws, but you can't just pass on the costs to us without our means! Tell me, where did we budget this, where do we have additional resources in a savings period? That is where we are negotiating towards a transitional arrangement, at least until the next financial compensation. What I have answered in writing will also be done in implementation. That means, then take the schedule I've mentioned to you, say it's true or not true, and then we'll really talk on, but not always on the basis half, half, half. That's just not the truth. [[Abg. Ursula Haubner: Not half, half, half!]] Therefore, on the topics: On the one hand, we are in the process of ensuring a transitional solution. The other issue, youth protection, is as it is. Put the skills in my hand! [[Abg. Ursula Haubner: The federal states are red and black!]] Change the Constitution! I'll do it for you tomorrow.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e9952	The motion for a resolution on gender equality tabled by Mrs Haubner is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e10004	Next speaker: Mr Fürntrath-Moretti. 4 minutes speaking time is set. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e10025	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! I do not want to further strengthen the word “Youth Protection Act”, but the fact is that – and that is really what you have to hold – the Federal Minister Mitterlehner is the minister who has already made the most progress with the regulation of this problem, and I trust his negotiating skill that he will bring about a solution. That's really great. He'll take care of this, he'll certainly handle it with us. [[Abg. Markowitz: Until when?]] Until when, I can't tell you now, you know that very well. But he is really a minister who is committed to this issue, and he will certainly be doing it positively. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would now like to return to this youth report. For me, the youth report is particularly good this time, because it is very broad and reflects not only one side. For me, he really shows the situation of young people how it really is. Mrs Binder-Maier has already defined what a young adult is. I would like to work out quite clearly once again: What's a youth now? What do we understand about a youth? Young people in Austria are between 15 and 18 years of age. ==References== They are young adults. You have to hold on to that, because no one has said it today. What does it look like for the 15 to 18-year-olds? – Approximately 331,000 young people attend a school. It can now be an AHS, a realgymnasium, a generally forming high school, a BULME or whatever. 40 percent of compulsory school leavers teach, so they are in the dual education system. Today, we have dealt very intensively with the question of students and future academics in Austria. I would like to do this a little bit with the apprentices, because these are our future experts that we urgently need. Especially in the teaching that consists of the vocational school modules and the practical part in the enterprises, we have had the best experience in Austria. Through support from the Federal Government – for example, the Blum-Bonus mentioned here – we have managed in recent years to make the teaching attractive not only to the young, but also to the companies. [[Abg. Ing. Hoebart: There is no longer that, the Blum-Bonus!]] [[Abg. Markowitz: The Blum-Bonus belongs again!]] Because that is also essential: Without companies, there is no teaching. The teaching with Matura also made a further step towards good education for the Austrian young people and, what is essential, good jobs. Austrian apprentices and Austrian professionals are far ahead not only of national events, but also of international events. The medal mirror in Olympiads and so on shows quite clearly: The dual training in Austria is one of the best in the world. On this occasion also a thank you to all vocational school teachers and all trainers, to all entrepreneurs. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] As an entrepreneur, I know how difficult it is to deal with young trainees and make them great professionals. What is it like for the 19 to 24 year olds? – The following picture shows: In about 146,000 young adults are studying, 329,000 already have a job, and 33,000 are unemployed or are looking for work. The report clearly shows that we are on the right path in Austria. Youth unemployment in Austria, ladies and gentlemen, is the second lowest in the European Union. Let us strengthen our children and young people in their talents! We don't force them into professions where they don't find themselves! Only what you like to do is do good. And our responsibility as a politician, as parents, grandparents or instructors is also determined: Demanding and promoting are more important than ever. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e10103	Next speaker: Mr Lipitsch. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e10124	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear listeners! Ladies and gentlemen. The present Sixth Report on the situation of young people in Austria is an excellent reference work, which includes important analyses on more than 600 pages as a basis for decisions and, of course, targeted proposals. It has already been mentioned several times today that, according to the EU benchmark, as regards youth unemployment in Austria, we are very good and have a very high employment rate among young people. My previous speaker also said that 40 percent of compulsory school leavers go into a teaching. This transition between school and teaching is often problematic, and it also shows that very often wrong decisions are made. I think it is very, very important to give these young people assistance in the field of vocational orientation, so that they can make the right decision. We have 260 legally recognized teaching professions in Austria. 48 percent of male apprentices apply for the ten most frequently. But what's even worse: For the ten most common teaching professions, 70 percent of women apply because it is simply given to them by the parents' home or by the advice that it is a women's profession or a male's profession. In the last few years, technical professions for women have been increasingly involved in the consultation. One tries to support women or girls, to make the decision, to also go in technical professions. And something that bothers me again and again in person is – Mr Lugar mentioned it briefly –: It is always pretended as if the apprentices could not do anything. It is always spoken of by those who cannot, in fact, expect and cannot read. We have to give the apprentices the priority they need. These are our skilled workers. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I have a degree in teaching myself, and I believe that it is important that someone who has completed a teaching can then also say: I'm a skilled worker, I'm not a second class somewhere, I'm something special, I learned a job. It is quite, very important, to give these young people in vocational orientation – even today the youth organizations have already been addressed, whether they are the trade union youth who makes application training in the field of vocational orientation, or also the project “Job Value – Youth Wants Work” of the Catholic youth as well as youth centres – help if it is not possible in the parent house to make decisions. It is very important that these young people have the opportunity to receive training in their careers, because this also means that 90 percent of those young people who are seeking the job and who also receive a training will complete them. And when I have completed this vocational training, I am first of all more satisfied and have the chance to earn better. And as we have heard today, these people are less affected by unemployment than others who stop their job. One third of the teaching conditions are already being promoted, 15 000 to 17 000. I would like to say that this training guarantee is an excellent tool to help people for the future, so that they can get into the field of a job. The teaching was addressed with Matura. But I would like to point out that it is a very great effort and a very heavy burden to do the Matura next to the teaching. I congratulate everyone who does this at all and creates it. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] It is also a suggestion in this report that it would be necessary to give the young people a chance, shortly after leaving initial training, to make an additional training free of charge in order to reduce deficits. In addition, I say that the company of which I say is locked up, and which therefore cannot take their degree examination, should give the chance to continue to attend vocational school, because the degree of vocational school offers the opportunity to obtain a degree in teaching. The quality of training needs to be monitored and analysed, says the report. We need to get even more accurate. I would like to end with a quote from the report: Following the findings of the research, the labour market situation for young people in Austria presents itself favourable. Policy has responded rapidly to challenges for youth employment. – There is nothing to add to it.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e10200	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Musiol. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e10222	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Jugendminister, what you have done, especially in your second contribution, is government sisters of the finest – suder, as we call it here in Vienna. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] They hold Mr Haubner as saying that she had presented this youth report chapter by chapter here, where she and her group were in the government themselves at the time. You yourself, Minister, have done nothing else. You have forgotten that your party, the ÖVP, was in the government at the time, that it was a black and blue-orange government at the time, and you also forgot – in your first execution above all – to take into account your government responsibility. [[Congratulation with Greens and BZÖ.]] [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Mitterlehner.]] Mr Minister, you have only dealt with one subject after another. However, governance, taking responsibility also means considering measures, announcing measures and taking measures. This has not been done in any area addressed by my colleagues, by the colleagues of the other political groups, even in the worst. The fact is that we have a report here, which has already been discussed very intensively in the Committee with experts in it and which contains the results that we already know from other reports, for example from the poverty report, for example from the family report, from various educational studies – and that for years. It is not enough, therefore, if you, as a minister, are producing here and quoting this report to us, but it would be necessary for you, as part of this federal government, to really take action once and, in fact, take action, Mr. Cot. [[Abg. Grill: A very important part!]] When I take the example of education, I have to say that it is old-known that the requirements for young people in terms of school and education are heightened, that they are under extremely high educational and performance pressures, that there is tough competition. It is known that this is also reflected in this study. It is also well known that education is inherited. This means that educational opportunities are inherited, that in households with existential difficulties which are socially or educationally disadvantaged, they also inherit their children; that there is a gender issue in the field of education. There is nothing to ask us to do this again, but it is necessary to finally take action. If you are talking about the cross-sectional matter of youth, I can invite you as a youth minister or invite you: As a youth minister, speak to your “Querschnitskolleg”, the family minister, who happens to be you too, and discuss how you can create conditions for all children in Austria in one of your areas of responsibility, namely in the field of childcare, which guarantee high-quality educational opportunities from the very beginning, so that it does not depend on the postal code and the parents’ money, whether these children receive an educational opportunity from the beginning or not. [[Rejoicing with the Greens]] As Minister of Youth, discuss this with the Minister of Family and put actions instead of just words! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The colleague has already mentioned – and this is embarrassing for Austria, I must tell you – that there are a large number of young people who cannot take up their job. This is not about any fantasy professions you've seen in any Hollywood films that you want to take; it's all about banal professions, all those in that country. There are a number of young people who cannot take them, and this then leads to young people breaking out of training, teaching and much more in advance. What makes me particularly happy – my colleague Windbüchler-Soushill clearly defined political starkness as system-concealedness – is that young people do not join in their fate and get up and defend themselves very well. This morning we talked about the study conditions and the universities. One of my colleagues, whose name I did not notice, said, yes, at the universities again protests and occupied audiences are to be expected. To do this, I have to say: It is a good thing that young people do not like what this Federal Government is doing with its future; well so that young people make use of all their democratic possibilities and become We are setting – whether this is student demonstrations, whether this is the occupation of the Audimax or whether it is various petitions and other things that support the young people where they go. At this point, it is also mentioned that youth workers are the worst in the world, who support young people in seeing a way in spite of many frustrations. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Against this background, I would like to apply quite clearly for something, namely the educational people's desire. It deals with education – from early childhood to university. From the 3rd to the 10th. November will be able to support this; and it is important that all people who want children and young people to have equal opportunities in Austria – this is one of the most important demands of the educational people – go, sign, help this educational people to the necessary success and thus force the government to act. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e10300	Next speaker: Mr. Prince. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e10322	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This youth report makes it clear to us that youth policy is a cross-cutting matter. I would also like to thank the authors of this comprehensive study for their accuracy in data collection and analysis. However, I was somewhat surprised that the influence of new media and technologies on young people was not taken into account in the report, especially since the Internet, mobile phones and computer games have a significant impact on the leisure behaviour of young people. Around three quarters of the young Austrians aged 14 and over use the Internet regularly. Everyone who has children of this age at home knows what I'm talking about. I therefore welcome the initiative of the Minister for Family and Youth, which recognises the dangers and risks of these new information and communication technologies and has installed an instrument for educational and critical discussion with the first media and information centre in Austria. The Ministry of Youth is at the pulse of time, knows the life worlds of young people and has recognized the chance of linking participation, political education and safe use of the media. Thank you very much for that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But now I would like to focus even more on the benefits of young people for society. In particular, as regards the involvement of young people in the country, I have experience because I know and experience the cooperation of generations and the commitment of young people in various areas, both as mayor and as chairman of the LEADER region of Strudengau. I can say with pride that many young people like to engage with ambition in communities and in various projects to do something for the general good. This includes not only support and work in youth institutions, but above all cooperation in many associations and voluntary activities. Our youth is active when it comes to being there for others. The image drawn by today's youth does not correspond to the way it really behaves in reality. Youth is much better than its reputation. More and more young people use the time after the matura or after the school's graduation for a voluntary social year. With the extension of the family allowance by one year, we have certainly created an additional incentive for this. It is important for young people to be recognized as valuable support and to give them the feeling that not only their cooperation is required, but also their participation. The most important thing is that we trust young people without reservation. To give responsibility out of hand, to let go and to trust that education, care and education were the right support in the first years of life, everyone who has children themselves must learn. We all know that this is not always easy, but it is simply necessary. The same applies to the political co-determination of young people. We must develop concepts hand in hand with young people and recognize them as competent co-designers. I am always surprised how much young people today are thinking about their own future – and not just about their own – and how constructively they can work together on and work out solutions. You have to leave them, though. With the reduction of the electoral age to 16 years – the Federal Minister has already carried out the figures – political interest has increased. This is gratifying, especially since our democratic structure can only work if all generations actively participate in it. Our task is, therefore, not to put young people in the way of stones, but to allow them more free tracks to realize their ideas. This does not always require high financial support, but above all our courage to allow these ideas. In this sense, we would like to agree with the youth report.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e10383	Mrs Schönpass spoke as the last speaker on this item on the agenda. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e10404	Mr President. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear guests! The Youth Report contains more than 600 pages. I now allow myself to take out a few details on youth and sexuality. With keywords like generation porn or sexual custody, the topic of youth sexuality is often problematic. Behind it is the diffuse fear that young people no longer link sexuality with love. Pornography is indeed part of their daily media consumption for many male youths. Of course, it can have an impact on sexual morality and lead to the formation of wrong and one-sided role clichés. At the same time, however, we must not overlook the fact that many adults with migration backgrounds grow up with very high values in terms of sexuality and partnership and are often difficult to reach through sexual pedagogical offers. Employment in youth sexuality is basically a gratification. On the one hand, it is of course necessary to identify risk groups and worrying developments, on the other hand, to avoid scandalisation. Most of today's teenagers live sexuality much more responsible than the generations before. The main problem in this context is that the Research stand on youth sexuality in Austria is still very sparse compared to other European countries. Dear ladies and gentlemen! There is a great need for information. Although the majority of young people consider themselves enlightened, the knowledge of contraception and potential risks of unprotected sexual intercourse is hardly implemented. Also, 84 percent, more than three-quarters of the respondents, want more information – you can laugh quietly, deputies – about sexual practices, sexual diseases, relationship and abortion. [[Discussions and cheerfulness with Deputies Dolinschek and Markowitz]] These issues should obviously be too short or uncovered in school-based sexual pedagogy. Minister! This report on the situation of young people in Austria contains numerous recommendations and measures. I urge you to take the consequences of this! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e10453	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Höbart reported. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e10474	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! What always surprises me about the government parties: We've always been listening to what you need to do for hours, there's a master plan, here's a plan. - Please, do it at last! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It's unbearable for me that you always hear what everything has to be done. In this House there are people who have been members of this Federal Government for years and just don't do anything. You have to say that at this point. Now the so-called report on the situation of young people here in Austria. Same thing again. Now there is a report, which is a great jubilation for the Federal Minister, who may well represent the economic agents, but in order to speak to the remarks of Mr Prince, the Ministry of Youth is certainly not at the pulse of time and certainly does not have the eyes and ears of young people. Then: I have never seen you, Mr Minister, among young people in any locals, discotheques et cetera. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] So I don't think you know what's moving our youth today. You have to hold that at this point. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Mitterlehner.]] That is why my appeal to the Federal Government to work at last with full force for our youth and not constantly to deal with any reports on the situation of young people. Then: What are the facts about our youth today? Some points are clearly revealed in this report. Unemployment: You have rightly said that we have 50,000 unemployed young people, rising. What to do You here to finally get that number down? The educational participation was already addressed before, with 15-19-year-olds still over 80 percent, with 20 to 29-year-olds only around 20 percent. You have also correctly recognized: There is unemployment where education fails. At this point, I would like to give an example, namely, in the case of young people with migration backgrounds. Mr Minister, you know very well – this was a study that came from your ministry about a year ago – that up to 50 percent of young people with migration backgrounds early from our There is a lack of education system. Do we wonder when Parisians and London states come to Vienna?- Oh, my God! Please make sure that these ladies and gentlemen finally stay in our education system and do something for our society! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In order to promote basic skills – even today it has already been mentioned –: Many young people today have problems reading, writing and computing. I know about companies. They would like to hire apprentices, but the apprentices often have problems with these things. Is it so difficult to pass on these skills? Physical problems, overweight: And that's what we're talking about abolishing military service! Mr Minister, work with your coalition partner to ensure that the idea is finally adopted again! Because the German army with its military duty is the only place where young people still come together, run sports, learn companionship, learn a little discipline, learn rules. [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Mitterlehner.]] – Yes, it is, talk to the young people! That's what they appreciate about our federal army. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Some 97 percent of young people up to 14 years of age are already experienced in alcohol, there are social tensions in schools. You have wondered why the Freedom Party on the Youth Front Organization RFJ has launched the initiative “Yes to uniform school clothing” instead of brand pressure. This is an excellent idea that I have to present here today. Because we know that social tensions arise from these things, that violence – at this point I am still here – is particularly marked among young people with migration backgrounds, and that especially our Austrian young people often suffer from it. That is what I am asking myself, and I ask you this question, Mr Minister: What to do Are you specific about the facts that I have shown here? Everyone is surprised that partly 50 percent and more vote in the Freedom Party. I can tell you why the young people today tend so much to become the Freedom Party: because our young people have enough of this kindness because they have enough of the political establishment because they want to work and because the youth today does not want to become a minority in their own country. Our young people have a very strong awareness of values, they are patriots, and we should be proud of them. Therefore: Yes to an active youth policy and no to the permanent building of air locks and to a jubilant policy on any reports!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e10595	No one has been reported here in the word. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? – That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of this report III-248. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for their attention to be a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Kitzmüller, ladies and gentlemen, on the introduction of a family tax division model. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to give a sign. – That's the minority. The application is rejected. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Josef Bucher, colleagues, on the introduction of a debt brake for public debt. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Josef Bucher, colleagues and colleagues on the reform of income tax towards a flat-tax model. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this request to give a sign. – That too is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Josef Bucher, colleagues on gender equality. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – That too is the minority. The application is rejected. [[13:58:39]] 2. Point Report of the People's Procuratorate Committee on 34. Report of the Public Prosecutor's Office (1. Years until 31. (III-214/1317 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e10711	We're now on the 2nd. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mr Petzner is speaking on this item on the agenda. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e10738	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope the lawyers will come. Ladies and gentlemen! We do not agree with the People's Prosecution Report as the only group to send a clear signal of the protest here today. What's this protest about? – The public prosecutorship has the task of representing the interests of citizens towards the public institutions. This is an independent institution that must not and should not act Party-politically. However, the People's Procuratorate with the current Volksanwälten Kostelka, Brinek and Stoisits has done the opposite by joining an election campaign as a party political commissioner, namely as a party political commander of the Austrian People's Party, ladies and gentlemen! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This is an unacceptable approach that we strongly condemn, namely that the People's Procuratorate represents the interests of a party and not the interests of the Austrians, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Grosz: Abuse!]] But we already know this from the Austrian People's Party: If it fits into the political concept, it is always the first to abuse the public institutions for their own party political and power-political interests to the most harmful. In 2009 in the EU election it was the People's Procuratorate. It is currently the Black Financial Market Supervision, which, on behalf of the Austrian People's Party and on behalf of the General Secretariat of the Austrian People's Party, played confidential information to the public under the crime of the abuse of office in the Causa Scheibner. You won't get through there, ladies and gentlemen, and we won't allow you to shoot out any of the mandates from our ranks! That's what you can write behind your ears. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] And there too, Mr. Konrad from the Raiffeisen Group will not help you. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I am glad that I do not have an account with Raiffeisen, and can only recommend it to anyone because the data is not safe with Raiffeisen and the banking secret is not protected. But now I'm coming back to the People's Procuratorate. What did you do in 2009? – An attempt was made to cover the then top candidates of the BZÖ, Ewald Stadler, with complaints, thus blocking an election campaign at the expense of the taxpayer, at the expense of the Republic. In the end, all these complaints have not been successfully brought to an end, and they have been justified by the fact that the term or headline “our popular attorney in Brussels” has been used. I wonder if you don't have any major concerns. [[Abg. May. Brunner: Don't you have any major concerns now?]] Ewald Stadler has probably also been very successful as a popular lawyer for this Republic. It is – once again – unacceptable, reprehensible and hardest to condemn that you are interfering in an ongoing election campaign. That is why we also announce our cooperation, ladies and gentlemen, because this is simply an unacceptable approach. Apart from this, this report also shows that your current account is more than disillusioning compared to the era Ewald Stadler, who was one of the most successful lawyers. We have a decline in complaints of over 5,000 cases. [[Abg. May. Stefan stands at the government bank and speaks to the attorney Dr. Brinek.]] Mr Stefan, you may be able to stop your flirting attempts with Mrs Brinek. We are in Parliament and not in a disco. Yeah, I'm wondering, What are you doing? [[Abg. Grosz: You are not multitasking!]] We have a drop of over 5,000 cases, which means that the public prosecutorship is less in demand than at the time of the Ewald Stadler. We have a lot of falling quotas as far as the Ombudsman's broadcasts are concerned, which in the end also shows that people's confidence in this form is no longer given to the public prosecutor's office. This has to do with the fact that people, especially those who are close to us, have not forgotten that independent lawyers are going to the political election arena as party-political actors. Again: This is indecent and, above all, as a final sentence, it has also led to nothing, because despite your agitation against us, despite your complaints and attacks, which have cost a lot of money and brought nothing, the BZÖ has reached the election goal and is, on the basis of the Lisbon Treaty, with a mandate, namely power. [[Call the BZÖ: tax money!]] Ewald Stadler, representing the interests of the Austrians in Brussels. This is particularly important in times like this when we look at Greece and look at what the EU is responsible for inadequacies in the area of the financial crisis, that it is again a real representative, a real popular lawyer, namely Mag. Ewald Stadler, in Brussels there are, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e10843	Next speaker: Mr Fazekas. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e10865	Mr President. My dear folk lawyers! Mr Petzner, it is the same game every time: the song of praise to your colleague Stadler, in which they do not want to take note that here the public prosecutorship has taken from the case law or the Austrian jurisdiction what everyone is entitled to, and you have a judgment from it, and that is your problem. [[Abg. Petzner: Lobesong?! He's good!]] And now to accuse the People's Procuratorate Party, that is the summit of the whole. [[Abg. Petzner: That's not your job!]] [[Abg. Grosz: What's under the summit?]] And to do that in the context of the fact that the People's Procuratorate does not do as much as it does under your MEP Stadler, that is the best at all. Perhaps this also has to do with the fact that the public administration has become better due to the activities of the public prosecutor's office and that many citizens no longer have to turn to the public prosecutor's office. This speaks for both: it speaks for the People's Procuratorate in its current activity, and this also speaks for our administration, namely the federal, state and local administration, and I, Mr Petzner, certainly do not let that go bad. In addition, you will always arrive with the year 2009. Today we are discussing the 2010 Public Prosecutor's Report, and this is an excellent report. I would like to thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. 7 600 people have contacted you in phone calls, 15,000 people have written to the People's Procuratorate. There were 25 000 written correspondence, 11 000 letters and e-mails, 273 spokespersons, 1,800 interlocutors. So I don't think that's a bad current account, and you don't have to talk about it, just like you do. The Volksanwalt women and the Volksanwalt are important and competent contact persons for us in the recognition of possible loopholes or legalist suggestions. I would like to address two specific areas, ladies and gentlemen, which have already been started at government level: This is one of the beginnings of the child health dialogue, which was launched by Federal Minister Alois Stöger and which was further intensified by the National Action Plan together with Mrs Claudia Schmied. First results will be presented next week. On the other hand, I would like to address the suggestion regarding the minimum size of police candidates who will not in future be a criterion for admission to the police. In my opinion, this is a very important step towards raising quality. Other areas, such as the demand for a Federal Children's and Youth Aid Act, are still open. We have been able to discuss this at the previous item on the agenda. In my opinion, there is also an urgent need for action. We know, however, that we also need the support of the federal states, and therefore here again my appeal, also to the federal states, to really cooperate, in order to ensure that the Federal Children's and Youth Aid Act also comes where it must be, namely with the young people in our country. Another area of interest to me is the work of justice and cooperation with the security authorities. There were also suggestions from the public prosecutor's office in connection with investigations in various areas. I think it's positive that you're reacting to it. Action manuals have been prepared in the interior, including standardised procedures in criminal police cases. In the context of the debate on criminal process reform evaluation, there is an extensive work at the moment, it is particularly positive to highlight that there should be a platform where even better cooperation between the security authorities and the judicial authorities will be possible. It is essentially a very large and extensive spectrum, and I would like to take the opportunity here to thank the people's lawyers and our people's attorneys for their work in the interests of the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e10931	Next speaker: Mrs Hellerer. 6 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e10952	Dear People's Lawyers! Mr President. The current account of the People's Procuratorate can be seen; this has already been done very precisely by my predecessor. The People's Procuratorate's Report has been redesigned. He presents himself briefly on 320 pages. He is easy to read and very clear. We have discussed the 2010 Public Prosecutor's Report very thoroughly in two committee dates. The second date had focused on the area of justice. With 708 complaints brought against justice at the public prosecutor's office, there is a slight decline compared to the previous year. Many complaints concern court proceedings on care and maintenance. The fact is that the family is living differently in Austria. We have a divorce rate of 43 percent. 20,000 children were affected by divorces in 2010. The particular focus and complaints focused mainly on the problem of delays in the proceedings. This creates legal uncertainty, and this is particularly stressful for the children affected by it. It has already been pointed out several times in reports of the Public Prosecutor's Office that double fees are charged for divorce comparisons. The report also contains a corresponding legitimate suggestion. The issue in the Committee was also the statement of abuse of the Public Prosecutor's Office on piglets protection baskets. [[Abg. May. Brunner: “casten stand” means that!]] This is in the responsibility of Volksanwalt Dr. Peter Kostelka. The People's Procuratorate has addressed a subject that has caused a very serious uncertainty in the pig sector. We have around 9 000 pig farms throughout Germany, which are already in a very difficult financial situation due to a very low price level and precisely know that they could simply not carry out investments that are necessary under further production regulations. It would, it is calculated, be at risk of 40 to 50 percent of the farms under new conditions. You're in front of a closure. In particular, it is the small farmers that could not really do so. [[Call to the Greens: You must pass this on to the Minister for Agriculture! He's in charge!]] The result would be that there would be more cheap pigmeat imports and that our own production would be down sharply. It should also be noted that this has become extremely acute in recent weeks. There were 2000 farmers, driven by their fears of existence, at a rally that took place in the framework of the Rieder Fair. They have drawn attention to their situation there, while at the same time in Vienna a handful of animal protection activists have chained to the gates of the Ministry of Life. Farmers go to the streets because they know that they have to close down farms in the event of an increase in production costs, they simply have to stop running, while animal welfare activists really want to provoke and thus secure media coverage. We know that the livestock-keeping plants in Austria need, above all, legal certainty in order to be able to operate. They rely on the Austrian animal welfare law in its current version, including the corresponding regulations, of course. And they are highly interested in and also act on the best possible care for their animals, they are interested in the welfare of their animals. And they also want to pass on information to consumers. They are particularly willing to talk, while the animal welfare activists cause uncertainty in the population. [[Call to the Greens:No, the Minister for Agriculture is not ready to talk!]] [[Abg. May. Gaßner: That's right!]] – It is like this: They are insecure to the population, consumers and, of course, farmers too! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The farmers are ready to talk. Now there are again negotiations with the representatives of the pig industry and with Federal Minister Stöger. I hope that a satisfactory solution can be found for farmers and consumers so that this issue can be resolved in the interests of all concerned.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e11032	Next speaker: Mr Grosz. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e11053	I won't need them. I just wanted to recapture something because the two peoples had previously continued their coffee bruising, while the Member Stefan Petzner had been using legitimate criticism. Mrs Volksanwälten, do you know what the difference to a public prosecutor's discussion here in plenary and a discussion on the Court of Auditors' report is? . In the case of a Court of Auditors report, at least the representatives of the opposition groups are throwing themselves on the rails so as to actually enhance the Court of Auditors' rights, because we recognize that the Court of Auditors, the instrument of the Austrian National Council, is doing high-quality work. Unfortunately, we no longer recognize God's position at the public prosecutor's office in its current formation. If the quotas fall on television, if fewer and fewer people turn to them, then this is a loss of confidence of the people in the authority, in the public prosecutor's institution, which should at least make your alarm bells cry out. You shouldn't have to make a coffee sip with my colleague Hübner. You should consider whether you are still perceived as a corrective instrument by the people of our country or whether everyone says: The People's Procuratorate is not going on either! I only explain my experience to you once: Do you know how many people have turned to a Member of Parliament for the last two years, in the context of speeches, in this case on me, on any matters, on very important matters, and then somewhere there was a letter from the People's Procuratorate, which said: We got your concern? And then, I don't know, sometime, two months later, they got the next letter, although obviously there was a mistake in the administration, namely a letter that read: Unfortunately, there is nothing we can do to God! More and more people say: The People's Procuratorate is already related to those! In the People's Republic of China, this is the direction that is really directed against the People's Procuratorate and where you actually have the task of restoring confidence in the People's Procuratorate. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Excuse me, no one's interested in your broadcasts at ORF anymore. No one's turning to you anymore. And you should think that once on the “Volksanwaltschaft”, where I was a member of the Social Minister’s staff at the time, it has always been controversial and well debated. Today is discussed in such a way that everyone turns off and says: No, if I need sleeping tablets, I get into my night castle, I don't need to look at the public prosecutor's program! Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to extend this to the Volksanwalt Kostelka. I expect more initiative from the People's Procuratorate, including more dedication to the real problems of the population. You know, the title alone that adorns you doesn't bring you anything but a good gage, but the people of our country don't do it. At last, people want a representation, especially in a discussion that is about losing confidence in the institutions of the state. [[Call the Greens.]] If the institutions of the state disappear only more in scandals, in corruption et cetera, then columns such as justice, the Court of Auditors and public prosecutors are more important than ever. I didn't want to write that to you behind the ears, but give you a hand on your trip so that you can finally do something in the interest of people again.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e11116	Next speaker: Mrs. Dr. Winter. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e11138	Mr President. Honourable People's Lawyers! High house! Mr. Gerald Grosz, I know the new slope of your party to the Bible. Was that part of your Sunday preaching? - I couldn't have read this anywhere else. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This report by the People's Procuratorate can also be accepted by the FPÖ, as an opposition party, because this report is a great counterweight to the many reports from the ministries, which are very often only high-gloss brochures, with self-provoking, with self-representation, but with little content and also very often with few solutions. The second, which seems particularly positive to us, is that the current account is already mentioned as the very first point. In the current account there are key figures which, although they are still mentioned several times today, I would nevertheless like to mention: A total of 15 265 people came to you in 2010 and have raised their concerns to you. Approximately 8 percent more in the population, the authorities feel specifically ill-treated or inadequately informed. The second statistics, which Mr Fazekas has already quoted, also speak volumes. In this context, however, I would not like to narrow down the work and use of the public prosecutor's office, but rather to find a different approach from that of Mr Fazekas. These two figures should actually be a warning sign for the government, because people don't go to the public prosecutor's office for nothing. They complain about administration, legislation, regulations, and, and, So you are dissatisfied with the current government and with how it is now. [[Abg. May. Stadler: With the government, however, the public prosecutor has nothing to do with it!]] As you say, the number is rising. That speaks for itself. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Grosz: Would you have stayed with Muhammad better!]] They have also presented a statistics on the examination procedures in the state and local administration, with the Styria in particular highlighted in this area. There the number of cases increased from 309 in 2009 to 345 in 2010. I was allowed to ask the committee what is inherently related to this increase in audit procedures. Mr. Volksanwalt Kostelka said what I was supposed to be, namely: The elections in the Styria – with the rigid savings measures by the so-called reform partnership – are the cause! I would add that, as a result, the public prosecutorship could be referred to as a seismograph of the government's political actions or agitations, because the results come immediately after incorrect regulations, laws and more. Just a short while to the casseroles in the pigry: Mrs Colleague, I do not agree with your argument at all. If you had read the public prosecutor's broadcast, you would have had to argue differently. I think it is wonderful that the People's Procuratorate has started an official test procedure and thus put the whole system in place. I congratulate her on that. I am very disappointed in this connection by the Minister for Agriculture. For me, pure lobbyism is present, the large farmers are represented, because in Austria there are almost no small farmers anymore. Two figures: In 1995, 3,75 million pigs were kept in a total of 112 000 holdings in Austria, with 3,13 million pigs in 30,800 holdings in 2010. This is a meaningful sign: There is competition and the elimination of competition in Europe, outside Europe and also in Austria! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e11216	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Zinggl. 8 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e11237	Fathers of the People's Party! Ladies and gentlemen! The People's Procuratorate does all the work. I'm not on the side of the BZÖ, that's a completely wrong accusation. She deserves our respect and our applause. Mr Grosz, but on one point you are already right: The support from applause is too little, we also need to do a lot in Parliament if mistakes, abuses and so on are detected in order to bring about changes. These misdemeanors come from all the members of the public prosecutor's office, from the two popular lawyers and from the public prosecutor, and they come from three different parties. The BZÖ shall not make any provision, but decisions shall be taken independently of the party. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Grosz and Mr Petzner.]] There's nothing in it at all: Where people work together, mistakes can happen. The errors are detected and then corrected as well. [[Abg. Grosz: But since the National Council election...!]] If you believe in a committee that a misconception has been wronged, you can say that. You don't have to agree either, you've been counter-retarders anyway. Overall, I don't think that's the right way. [[Abg. Grosz: Martin Graf becomes the next popular lawyer!]] There are, in fact, many ministries that are based on the recommendations of the Public Procuratorate and reduce the respective deficit. But there are also those who ignore this completely, they are, so to speak, above the law and know all better. A good example we have heard twice today, I also mention: The Minister of Agriculture ignores the animal welfare law of 2005. As you know, the Animal Protection Act regulates the attitude of animals. The Ministry's regulation on pig farming simply does not comply with the animal welfare law, in several respects. This has also brought the People's Procuratorate to the attention. This regulation does not comply with the law, which is why most breeding sows in Austria have to veget their lives in cages – because they cannot be called live – which are as big as they are themselves. [[Abg. Hornek: That's nonsense! That's not true!]] – That’s right, we don’t need to... [[Abg. Hornek: That's not true! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] Without straw, without the possibility of taking a step forward or back, even standing up or sitting down is laborious. Ladies and gentlemen, these are serious tortures, which is no question at all. [[Abg. Hornek: You are totally unsuspecting, Mr Colleague.]] Then there is also an intensification, 85 percent of them still have cleavage. In one word: That's not fair, as you say. We know that pigs are social beings who live in groups, build nests, usually separate sleeping and puke areas. All these things are not fulfilled. What does that create? – Of course, there is great suffering, pain, anxiety, stress. This stress, of course, is also reflected in the meat pleasure. [[Abg. Hornek: Leave that, you really have no idea!]] Stress goes over the hormones into the meat. All this has been pointed out by the Greens for years. Now the People's Procuratorate has also recorded the ball, and we are very happy about this misconception. The People's Procuratorate has issued recommendations for a new regulation that goes in the direction of enabling pigs to grow without boxing. Minister of Health Stöger was pleased to respond positively. I said first that there are ministers who comply with the recommendations and those who ignore them. There is a minister who does not comply with these recommendations, and he is evil. Minister of Agriculture Berlakovich is evil for two reasons. The first reason is that he simply disregards the laws. [[Abg. Hornek: That is wrong!]] This regulation is not legitimate without regard to the laws. Mr President, we have the same situation as in the local panel conflict. There was a topography regulation that did not comply with the laws. [[Abg. Hornek: The comparison is nonsense! Absolutely nonsense!]] - You always say that's nonsense. You know that's right. I tell you quite honestly that the Minister is dancing around at the border of official abuse. He is also angry because he presents the economic concerns of some lobbyists to any kind of ethics. Ladies and gentlemen, rather torture animals than take any economic loss – that is not possible, not in our culture! What is this culture that has no compassion for the creature? In this sense and also in the interest of the public prosecutor's office, we want to increase the pressure a little. I have therefore prepared a motion for a resolution and ask you to increase the pressure with us so that what Mr Grosz has said can become a reality: so that Parliament can exert pressure to eliminate it if there are any abuses. [[Quoted print version removed]] I hope you support this. [[Abg. Hornek: The Minister of Health would be well advised to carry out his duties!]] – It is not about the Minister of Health. As you know, the Minister of Agriculture is coming from your party, and he needs to be remedied. The argument you put forward here is exactly the same with which the lobbyists have defended the alloy batteries. You said there was economic loss. [[Abg. Hornek: But you already know that the eggs are now coming from abroad?- Oh, my God!]] Do you know since when this kind of argumentation exists? – In the southern states of the United States, too, slavery has been argued for by saying that cotton production will otherwise be lost. [[Abg. Hornek: This is a hypocritical argument!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] That is to say, one has taken up slavery in order not to have to suffer economic loss. That's your problem. I'll tell you something. There are cultures that believe in a kind of rebirth. [[Call the ÖVP: The Greens too?- Oh, my God!]] These cultures and religions deal very sensitively with animals, and that has a reason. You have developed an empathy in this direction, because it might be that someday you will come to the world once as pigs. [[Abg. Hornek:... that you will become a reincarnation?- Oh, my God!]] I wish you, the lobbyist of the ÖVP, that this doesn't happen, because otherwise it can go all stupid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e11481	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e11539	Mrs Volksanwalt, Dr. Brinek, spoke on a point of view. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e11561	Mr President. High house! My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen. Let me comment on the 2010 report, because we are discussing it today. I listened carefully and heard a wrong number of Members here. We are talking about the 2010 report, and I would like to thank Mr Fazekas for having already said a lot about statistics and numbers with Mrs Winter and other speakers. In fact, I would also like to repeat to Mr Grosz that there has been an increase in complaints and an increase in work. Please read exactly! - No, I don't. [[Abg. Petzner: But compared to 2009!]] [[Abg. Grosz: Over the past ten years!]] Please read it carefully, then we can discuss it in a solid way. Where to read the increase focus point? – As in previous years, people – men and women – mainly complain about social and health issues, from the field of justice, from the area of the interior sector, from the financial sector. With a focus on the municipal complaint, we perform municipal and national public prosecutor's duties in seven federal states. We also see an increase in this area. I'm asking you to see that. Allow me to make a few comments on the social field and in this context to apologise to my colleagues Dr. Peter Kostelka. He is at the invitation of the Council of Europe in Madrid. You know, just as we do, that without international communication we can no longer get out, we can't do good work. We cannot also assess our work if we do not see where this journey should go in the light of international developments. So I can see two aspects from the social field, the field of work of Dr. Peter Kostelka, respond. We think that the focus of the social issue is on the care topic. I am very grateful that the Care Reform Act has been adopted as an important step. At least the financial requirement is formulated by 2014. However, we are aware of the complaints that, in addition, a concept is urgently needed for the future guarantee of sustainable, uniform and uncomplicated access to care services. Please continue to work on this question in this context! There are open questions, which are in part subject to the federal administration, in part the state administration, in the field of youth welfare. It's like we don't find enough personnel. Therefore, actions that do not satisfy the child’s well - being sometimes occur. Staff sometimes cannot comply with continuing training because it cannot be released from the service. We therefore advocate and wait for the Federal Children's and Youth Aid Act, which creates uniform standards. I think we must not lose sight of the welfare of the children and let no time pass. Let me say something about the change, i.e. to the increased – I repeat once again increased – complaints and processing numbers: Do not draw a comparison between the federal states either! A continuous trend, a monocausal explanation cannot be found. Work carefully with the data and facts and interpret them in the light of any changes in national law and administrative improvement efforts. I should particularly like to highlight the years of Upper Austria's initiatives and to say how much is set for modernisation and citizens' orientation in the administration. I am also allowed to clarify – without personally addressing Members – that the spokesmen have been expanded. There is also an increase in labour, an increase in demand, a rise in demand for the population of the just-right. Please note, too, that the People's Procuratorate also has to submit to the general saving objective of the Federal Government and to the overall social effort. Planning reduction and budget savings are required. If we bring along many complaints from the speeches, they must also be processed and completed in the home. It is not like I heard from some Members that you have to listen carefully. Yeah, yeah, don't worry, we'll do that. We take care of the big and small concerns of the population. But we don't make any quick judgments. We don't take party for someone. We must also give the administration, the mayor and the ministry the opportunity to answer, clarify and take a position, and must not jump to conclusions in order to possibly leave the most recent lawyers in the office with old cases. That's all I'm saying. The ORF broadcast also enjoys a constant and increasing popularity. We can refer to more than 315,000 on average. This is also a very neat number in the light of competition programmes and international developments. Let me give you another hint: With the Lisbon Treaty, the right to the principles of good and careful civil administration has become a fundamental right. All those who respond to us with a complaint are entitled to this fundamental right. This means that, in the light of this fundamental right, any administrative action must be examined. Anyone can turn to the People's Procuratorate. Everyone – every woman, in this sense – has a right to review and to initiate a test procedure when it comes to his or her complaint. I still allow myself to address one aspect of my immediate test area. There is also an increase in all areas of my competence concerning the Federal Government. Sincerely, the increasing complaints about property law, the lack of persons in charge, the lack of care, the billing and so on. However, there are false ideas in the population about what a guard can and can't do. This divergent view often leads to misunderstandings. High house! I cordially invite you to participate in the information about what a family representative can do, so that it does not come to the board of directors, what a guardian can do, and how much one might have to deal with these things in the family, so that it does not lead to a further increase in the number of authorities – and we expect an increase. I can make a comment on the future. [[Abg. Petzner: What do you say about party political abuse in the ÖVP?- Oh, my God!]] – Mr Petzner, I’m still coming to you, don’t worry! Ladies and gentlemen! In 2003, Austria signed the Additional Protocol against Torture and Inhuman Treatment and thus took over new tasks. We are immediately facing the implementation of this national prevention mechanism against torture. But this not only concerns torture of the most cruel kind, but inhumane treatment in all institutions where people are stopped – not only in the police detention centre, in prison, but also in psychiatric facilities, at nursing stations, in closed facilities of all kinds. The proposal for implementation has gone a long way. The People's Procuratorate has been well represented as an expert level and we expect the House to face the presentation after the successful review of the summer. I would like to ask you now for a favourable examination and consideration of this government proposal. We are also available as a centre of expertise for the consultations in the Hohe Haus and we assume that this largest expansion of tasks since the launch of the People's Procuratorate about 34 years ago will hopefully meet with all the greatest approval here in the Hohe Haus. Mr Petzner, last to you, because more than this note is not to be said. I hold the appeal judgment of 8. ==References== The legal position of the People's Procuratorate has, in short, been fully accepted. [[Abg. Petzner: The posters are still...!]] For all Ladies and gentlemen: There is a culpable violation of the use of the name ‘Volksanwalt’. The interlocutory order has not been properly given. Mr Stadler, and not the People's Procuratorate, has been sued. A little reconnaissance: This has worked out the financial procuratorship and not the supervision of the financial market. The financial attorneys are the lawyers of the Republic. I thank you for the first time for the attention and continue to be available.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e11661	As the next speaker, Mrs. Volksanwalt is Mag. Stoisits. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e11683	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Poštovane lady i gospodo! I would like to thank all those who have appreciated the work of the People's Procuratorate. I would also like to thank the critical comments, although it is necessary to clarify certain aspects – not criticism – in which there are factual inaccuracies. Mr Grosz, it is true that, in times when you may remember, because of your youth, there was a “vocal attorney” broadcast – at that time with the moderator Strobl. After that, there was a period – for a very long time – in which there was no broadcast. Thank God the cooperation with the ORF has been resumed at the beginning of the last – not the present – period, and the show is really extremely successful – not only started, but also started. In addition to the moderator who was new at the time, Dr. Resetarits, certainly also the three Volksanwälte – namely Volksanwalt Stadler, now MP Stadler, Volksanwalt Kostelka and Volksanwältin Bauer – made a contribution. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Grosz and Mr Mag. Donnerbauer.]] From my point of view, the mission is “citizen attorney” – as she now calls it a bit to our regret, because Dr. Resetarits is the Citizen’s lawyer; we are a People’s Lawyers, but we have taken note of what is called the classic public value of the ORF, because this format – in order to represent it as it is – is something that offers the highest quality and is absolutely compatible with the public-law mission. [[Assured by the honourable Member Mag. Brunner, Dr. Pirklhuber and Mag. Donnerbauer.]] Now I tell you quite honestly – so that also the ladies and gentlemen of the ORF, who are madly trying there and who have excellent cooperation with the Volksanwälten, can get feedback in order to make this clear to the public a bit: Every Saturday, all year round, except on the four Saturdays in August, where there is no broadcast, an average of 317,000 people watch Austrian television by half six in the afternoon – and that in the competition we have today, at hundreds of channels that can also be activated. So this is a success model of the ORF. I can now say: People's attorney Stadler used to make a contribution. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] At the moment, at least no one makes a contribution from the BZÖ, but those in the ORF who are trying to do so, and also the public prosecutorship – because it is our task – do this contribution – also in the sense of the satisfied seers. I hope that the new or installed management of the ORF sees this as well and that this programme gives more opportunities – possibly with an even better station – to address more young people, because it is a bit difficult to reach by half a young people on Saturday. But we would like to reach them, and an hour later it might be easier. - That's what I'm talking about. I would like to make a second correction in relation to the work of the People's Procuratorate – our current chairman has already done so, but it is also my concern that people do not believe what you just say here. [[Abg. Grosz: But at ten years! Ten years, colleague Stoisits! Ten years!]] Our establishment today has God's thanks to competition. Thank God she has competition, because in the administration as a whole, a service awareness has developed – in the sense of the people, namely the customers and customers of the administration. Maybe if you go to a bra once in a while, you'll see it. The first one you see on a district headquarters is “citizen service”, “citizen service office”. That's the first thing you're visually aware of when you go to an office. I say: Yes, thank God. I am not – and I say it all points now – sad if someone is already at the office where he may have a problem or a complaint due to these newly established infrastructures – namely correction or good governance, better administration. Despite – despite! – these new institutions make the appeals to the public prosecutors a bigger one every year, and then the figures speak for themselves, so to speak, and they are in stark contradiction with the statements of the two representatives of the BZÖ. It also increases – and now I come to my area of responsibility in the public prosecutor's office – the public prosecutor's misdemeanor's arrests last year by 17.3 percent. I hope that the alarm bells will ring to all parliamentarians. Why is that so? We can tell you exactly – or you can see it yourself by reading our report – what's going on. In the area that concerns me – in my jurisdiction complaints in the field of foreign law and asylum law – we had an increase of 61 percent in the People's Procuratorate in 2010 – that is the reporting period. I can tell you that in 2011 it continues just as much – not only linearly, but that still increases. There's the worm in there. There is the worm in it, and with these worms – if You want it that way – we are concerned, and we hope that we will get support from you to stop this curve that goes so up, in the sense of the Austrians who are with us complainants. Unfortunately, that is not the case in all cases, I illustrate to you an example from my business. The Volksanwaltswälten and the Volksanwaltsanwalt have found in a collegial misstatement regarding the Ministry of the Interior that an action was unlawfully taken by a Lower Austrian District Headquarters team. It was about a passport, which was taken from a man in the asylum proceedings and was not returned. It was a collegial misconception of the People's Procuratorate. The Ministry of the Interior could not argue that we are wrong. Do you know what the Ministry of the Interior has done – and presented it to you? – A change in the law that makes the practice illegal at the time legal. This is not in the sense of the People's Procuratorate that injustice, which is set, is corrected by bringing into Parliament and correcting past injustices. [[Call to the ÖVP: But this is a very strange argument!]] Similar actions are now legal and thus also deprived of the People's Procuratorate in its capacity to examine. Of course, I am not pleased, but – I would like to conclude – I can also tell you that this example is not exemplary for the overall process – quite the contrary, that is to prove in numbers. Without further feeding you with concrete numbers: The Austrian authorities at all levels take the work of the People's Procuratorate seriously, their criticism, their misconceptions – namely, not only going seriously by registering them, but by making corrections to their style. That is also justified. A very last comment – also addressed to Mr Petzner and Mr Grosz: The three Volksanwälten carried out 273 spokespersons throughout Austria in 2010. If you make a rough bill now and say that every week has five working days, then that would be at 52 weeks the year, 260 speech – there are still a lot of holidays, which I now generously leave aside. That is, every day there is a public prosecutor and a national attorney somewhere in Austria. This is what we are trying to overcome, because it is also adopted in this way and thus increases the use of the institution. We are pleased, and I now also thank you on behalf of the People's Procuratorate for your support. I hope – and I would also like to say this – that we also receive this support from Parliament as regards the OPCAT implementation, because this is a major project that we are working on very intensively and which has been more than urgent since the ratification of the OPCAT agreement in 2003. Meanwhile, we have the year 2011 and hope that the project can start in 2012. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e11773	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Stadler. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e11801	Mr President. High house! I am not going to address the extent to which the figures of complaints have developed compared to the early 2000s, but I can easily prove to you – and you can take the reports of the time – that we were clear about them. [[Abg. Grosz: 5,000 less!]] I am not now going to philosophise on the extent to which the yield rate in the ORF has declined. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: There are other opponents, Mr. Stadler! That's really cheap!]] I'm not going to refer to how often you've been uninvited by ORF, why the number of viewers and the corresponding switching rates have gone down. Remarkable is only that the ORF has changed the transmission format – not because you were so successful. That's not my topic. I will tell you, however, that it was a qualitative low level that the People's Procuratorate in 2009 under your duties... – yes, that's good that you reminded me that you're a complete failure, I know; I'm replicated to Mrs. Volksanwälter –... actively engaged in the EU election campaign. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber:... Report 2010!]] [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Warm up this story, that's really sad!]] [[Inter-call at BZÖ.]] Until then, the public prosecutor's office has always said: We stand out from day-to-day politics. For the first time, the People's Procuratorate actively participated in the EU election campaign and believed that it could participate in the election campaign because of a title story. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] You didn't do anything except serve me in the election campaign. You have nothing to do with that, but we have recognized the evil intention behind it very well. [[Does the ÖVP call “evil intention”?- Oh, my God!]] - Well, of course. The intention was to harm a group in this House in the election campaign. You take note of that. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] But it's unfair if you pretend to have won the procedures. In the main case, the People's Procuratorate suffered a blamable defeat in court. The only thing you have said today – in the hope that there is a minority inside here who does not understand what you are talking about – is the fact that at the interlocutory order my immunization complaint – and now everyone can see for himself what an impugnation complaint is – is still subject to appeal. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr Pirklhuber]] That's all. But that was in the provisional procedure. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] In the main, you lost the lawsuit. [[call to the FPÖ.]] I don't want to appreciate that either. I just want to tell you: If the People's Procuratorate believes it is necessary to engage on any side in any election campaign, then you are in a wrong mood if you believe that this is the right tendency of the People's Procuratorate. We have always been out of day-to-day politics before, and have tried not to let ourselves be drawn in either. There were several attempts. In particular, there were attempts to get us into daily politics in connection with the issue of the local map. We have stood out, have strictly turned to the legal aspect and, in particular, have tried to be held out of elections. No popular attorney would have thought of it earlier – that was reserved for you – to actively bring himself on the side of the government groups into an election campaign, hoping to harm a group of this House. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr Pirklhuber]] That is what we are aware of, and you do not need to be surprised if this group wants to have nothing to do with you at the moment. In any case, we assume – or know, due to the constitutional development and the foreseeable election results – that the next public prosecutor will look quite different. There you will speak German again and not organize and say any chauvinist stories from the government bank – this is also a political manifestation when Mrs Stoisits believes that she must give her minority policy the best. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: You can really save that!]] She should do this as a representative of the Greens, but not as a popular lawyer, when she would have to comply with the federal constitution, in which it is said that the official language is German. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] As long as she is a member of the Green Party, she can toad around as she pleases – that is her case – but as long as she is an attorney, she is the supreme organ of this Republic and not a party-political official of the Greens – but that has revealed the thinking of this People's Procuratorate.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e11959	Next speaker: Mr Sacher. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e11980	Mr President. Dear People's Lawyers! High house! First of all, the finding that we have long been discussing a report from the People's Procuratorate, not at night, but thanks to today's agenda at a time when the people who have turned to the public prosecutor's office with their fates deserved to be discussed here. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein]] I would like to start by saying that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Call the FPÖ:Thank you, Mr President.]] [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber:...to Stadler what! That's embarrassing what he's doing!]] Unfortunately, however, we also experience that at this hour a group of this House argues very interferingly against the People's Procuratorate. Dear BZÖ! We have to point this out to the most decisive. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and representatives of ÖVP and Greens.]] Mr Petzner, Mr Grosz, and I have now been against the People's Prosecution by Mr Stadler by bringing their personal circumstances in here. [[Abg. Grosz: I have no personal circumstances at all!]] Dear colleague Stadler, if I may tell you – I am not a lawyer, but you should know it better as a lawyer – it was exactly the other way round: Not the People's Procuratorate has put this institution into the election campaign, but you were because you served yourself in the election campaign for the EU election in the rightful title of People's Prosecutor – and rightly you have been sentenced to it. [[Abg. May. Widmann: Right!]] [[Congratulations to representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Actual correction!]] Ladies and gentlemen, now to my very valued predecessor Anna Höllerer. Respect, my colleague, Hellerer, you have spoken here about the problem of boxing. I do not want to roll this out widely, but you have also criticized the farmers for implementing existing animal welfare laws for a transitional period of eight years – please, eight years! – is granted. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hell of a bitch.]] A worker, an employee in a farm being closed, is often not provided even eight days in order to adapt to the new situation. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] Our Minister of Health Stöger is very, very ready to talk – he was and is in the future too, dear Anna Höller! I know he was with you at the ÖVP club, he was at the Farmers' Federation, he was talking to you. Whoever did not discuss with his colleague, Stöger, was your Minister for Agriculture Berlakovich, who has so far remained sparse to solve this problem. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, I wanted to deal with a particular problem in terms of content, because I am very concerned with it voluntarily, that is the case-law. I would like to thank the People's Procuratorate for the progress it has made in dealing with the issue of property affairs. I say ‘pre-powered’ because their criticism, showing shortcomings, must also move parliamentarians to improve things. We will have a big problem in the future, as you say correctly. [[call to the FPÖ.]] There will be almost 80 000 persons in charge in Austria in 2020. That means there will be a doubling. We will have too few experts. We have, for example, drawn up a ceiling of 25 clients in the 2006 law on property law, because we know that such a high number of clients lead to an misunderstanding in the care that much too little time remains to contact these people. Once a month to have personal contact, that's actually very little. Unfortunately, with the 2009 budget accompanying law, we – we have to take our own noses – have taken this number back again, which unfortunately was not good for the persons concerned. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, I have to come to a close. I would like to thank you for the suggestions – especially as far as the Stakeholdership is concerned. We will have to take up these suggestions in the interests of those people who are disabled, who are in charge, in order to provide them with a quality life. Thank you very much from the People's Procuratorate for this report.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e12131	Mr Magistrate has the power to make an actual correction. Stadler to speak. I would remind you of the relevant provisions of the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e12155	Mr Sacher has just said that I was rightly condemned for the use of any name in the EU election campaign. – This statement is incorrect! It is true, on the contrary, that I have won the civil procedure in the main, that the procedural procedure is still pending in the Court of Justice, that there has also been no criminal proceedings and no other civil proceedings. drive. That is to say, I have not been legally condemned in any case in this regard in any judgment.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e12193	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Aubauer. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e12215	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. I can do it very briefly. On the criticism of Mr Grosz: I don't know if you've ever had personal contact with the Volksanwälten; I do. The Volksanwälten are an important point of contact, especially for older people. There is not a virtual approach, but a lot of things is done in personal discussions. This is also appreciated by the elderly, and I say a warm thank you for the personal use of the Volksanwälten. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] A problem is also burning us very much under the nails, namely the problems of the administration; my previous speaker has just mentioned it. There is a clear need for new rules here, because the lawyers, if they are lawyers, are overwhelmed. You cannot decide on questions of care or health at all. There is a need for a dual system, such as in youth welfare, so that social workers can also take care of the people. [[President Mag. Prammer is taking over the presidency again.]] So here, too, a new regulation is to be sought, a kind of new age welfare, as she has proposed to Mrs. Dr. Brinek. We should discuss this in the near future. The problem is important, the problem is burning, because more and more people are getting older and therefore also need our help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e12257	Next speaker: Mr Mayerhofer. I'll set the clock to 4 minutes. - Please. [[Calls:Durable]] Please excuse me, honourable Member. – For information: The second President has announced that the urgent question will be called at 15.09 a.m. and we will stay there. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e12286	Madam President. Appreciate ladies of the People's Procuratorate! I would like to deal with the issue of missing cell phone surveys and to do so as a police officer who is still in practice, because I am still in the service, and there will be a note from the officials who actually make foreign service to me. A valuable mobile phone is stolen in the event of a break-in – a pitiful but not rare process. The fact that the public prosecutors take this case out and mention it is surprising in so far as it is not mentioned in any sentence whether the mobile phone was actually logged in or not. Maybe that was the reason for the police that they didn't perform a cell phone survey. Because one thing is certain: The dumbest break-in turns off a stolen cell phone on the spot. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] That is quite clear, and I would like to say that. And although I am pleased with the report of the People's Procuratorate and with its assistance, which I, as a Member of Parliament, have repeatedly been granted, I must also say one critical thing here: It is striking that a great deal of criticism of the police has been expressed lately. The second case I would like to address is the rapid rejection of compensation after a violent home opening by the police due to a feared accident in the apartment. I have experienced this 150 or a thousand times in my 30-year service. Where the citizen wants to protect himself from burglary by means of heavy and valuable doors and windows, the police, in the event of the need for them to enter the apartment because of a dreaded accident, and, of course, the problem of having to overcome the obstacle on the other hand, must make sure that the citizen does not possibly end up in a hospital. In Vienna, there is a problem, and here is a proposal to a black Minister for the Interior – not to the People's Procuratorate: Finally, you can create a place where, in case of danger, the police are in delay in all speed – we have not done so, and that is truly a shame – when he waits in front of the door, by a phone call can determine whether Mr Müller, Mr Maier, is now in a hospital or not. When he calls, it is now the case that he receives immediate information on all public hospitals via hospital information, but he does not receive information about private hospitals, such as the UKH or the Hanusch Hospital, which belongs to the Wiener Landeskrankenkasse, and he must make a new call in each case. Therefore, our proposal – but not to the People's Procuratorate, but to the Minister of the Interior – is a central hospital information for all hospitals. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This would prevent one thing: that, as it actually happens, more and more doors need to be opened. The doors are becoming more and more massive, because of the prevailing situation, which was not provoked by us liberals either, because of the uncertainty that causes the citizens to supply themselves with doors and windows, which one can no longer simply press on with body strength, but rather with technical force, in order to quickly help the citizen who may be behind the door, who is ill, perhaps with a heart attack. If we do that, if the Minister of the Interior does, then perhaps we will appear less in the report of the Public Prosecutor's Office, and I wish that as a police officer and only right as a MP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e12349	Now comes Mrs Mag. Brunner speaking. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e12370	Madam President. Dear People's Lawyers! Ladies and gentlemen. Values Advisors! Thank you to the People's Procuratorate for their work. I think the public prosecutorship is for many citizens, and especially dedicated citizens, a very, very important institution. I would also like to thank you for your report, which is an important addition to our work here in the House and from which we should draw our conclusions. As an animal protection spokesperson, of course, I have also been particularly concerned about the misconception in the area of pig farming. It is clear that the regulation in force does not comply with the animal welfare law which we have adopted here in the house. And I'm wondering something about it, because I think we expect every person in Austria to comply with the laws we decide here, and I'm actually expecting this from the Minister of Agriculture. The Minister of Agriculture is the only one who is blocked in this matter. He is the only one who is not ready to talk. I find it remarkable that now, by the ÖVP, animal protectionists who have been criminalised and persecuted by you for years, they are being re-pringered, animal protectionists who volunteer for animal welfare that is committed to the elimination of the abuses. They haven't been chained to the Ministry of Agriculture for one and a half days for fun, but because they just blocked Berlakovich and didn't show any willingness to talk. Then he doesn't need to wonder when his ministry is blocked. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] And what such a blockade means is also quite clear, namely the maintenance of the box stand. At present, pigs, breeding sows, all year round are in this box stand – this is a large cage in which there is no freedom of movement; and that this is unworthy, is probably not a question – trapped, and that is animal torture! This blockade, this ignorance, on the other hand, is absolutely unbearable for me. And as far as the position of the Ministry of Agriculture is concerned, the choice of words alone is significant: It is here spoken of “production ” and“ production. ” I mean, it's about living beings, and you can't talk about "production", but these living beings have to be kept in accordance with art – also in Austria and especially in Austria. Everything else, I think, is a shame!. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] 80 per cent of the population in Austria also reject this box stand and want an animal husbandry. And it's different. We just looked at a farm and saw, it's different. Pigs can also be kept in accordance with art. I think it would be the responsibility of the Minister of Agriculture to bring farmers to the point of enabling them to comply with the animal welfare law in Austria. That would be his job, and I urge Minister of Agriculture Berlakovich here once again to change his blockade and finally to establish a law-compliant state in Austria. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I also expect all of us here in the house to take ourselves seriously enough and to ensure that the laws we decide here are respected. And I would like to refer once again to the request made by my colleague, Zinggl, who only wants to ensure that the animal welfare law that we have agreed together is complied with. If we take the laws and our work seriously here, I expect broad approval of this law so that in Austria there will finally be animal-righteous, art-righteous attitudes – even among pigs. By the way, I still believe that Austria needs an independent, strong and committed Ministry of the Environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e12429	I am now interrupting the negotiations on item 2 of the agenda so that the urgent question requested can be dealt with at 15.09 a.m. in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. [[15:09:20]] Request for urgent procedure by Mr Josef Bucher, colleagues and colleagues, to the Federal Minister for Finance concerning: Enough paid for EU Member States, banks and speculators! People's vote now! (9287/J)
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e12459	We come to the urgent debate on the written question 9287/J. As this has now been done to all the Members, there is a lack of reading by the author. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e12757	I give Mr Klubobmann Bucher as the first questioner on the grounds of the question referred for a preliminary ruling pursuant to § 93 para. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). – by the way, Mrs. Minister is already here. Please, honourable Member, you are speaking. 20 minutes of speaking time are set.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e12787	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! What can be more urgent than to address the biggest tax evasion of the Second Republic and to treat it in the House? [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter stands next to the government bank and speaks to the lawyers Dr. Brinek and Mag. Stoisits.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: There you have to wait a little, they still have to bust themselves and embrace!]] I also warmly welcome the Minister for Finance, who has just arrived. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] There are currently very few members of the government in Austria, because they met abroad to enjoy themselves there. But it is all the more important to do homework in Austria and also to be clear about it – or to become clear to us; some are already in the clear, hopefully the best way to go – what effects it can have on the fatal impact of continuing this path of money destruction, the waste of tax money – which this Federal Government has in mind, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The BZÖ will not miss an opportunity to point out at all events, discussions and debates what is happening here and what is wrong here. We will therefore also consistently, in the interests of taxpayers and in the interests of the citizens of our country, always point out that it is a fatal mistake, which will arise as regards the further support of the pleiteland Greece and the subsequent permanent declaration of a rescue shield. This will cost taxpayers summaries, billions that we lack in our country. In the face of countless debates and political demands, we are constantly discussing the money we are missing in order to put in place measures to enable investment and financing and, on the other hand, we negligently deal with these tax billions and carry out a tax-money destruction. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, we want to prevent and stop this from BZÖ! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] For more than a year and a half, Mrs Finanzminister, I am talking about you being mistaken, that Greece has argued since April 2010 that Greece cannot be saved and that every cent and euro that flows into Greece is lost money because Greece is no longer to save. A year and a half ago, we were the only callers in the desert. One and a half years ago, we were the only ones who have addressed this problem. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go! You are the copiers of the liberal ideas!]] Do I hear anything from the FPÖ? – Mr Strache, ladies and gentlemen, said at the time, on 1st. May 2011 will flood Austria all over the East and take jobs away from us. Where is the unemployed today, ladies and gentlemen, whom you have painted on the wall? [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Street: 20,000! 25 000 in three months!]] – No one has come from the people you have so greatly announced! That was your policy! Only then, when we discussed this, did you throw the copying machines and swirl on our political course. This is the FPÖ policy, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I don't need to be told by a dental technician who dared not take a single step into the private sector, but spent most of the time with paintball games somewhere in the forest. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Today, there are countless people's economists, who also share our view. I recommend you look at the “FAZ” homepage. Every hour, the number of economists who believe that Greece is no longer to be saved and it is the only way for Greece to go to its own currency to take the path to self-health. In Austria there is a muzzler. The Austrian scientists must not say what they actually think. A few who may be just ahead of retirement allow themselves to have their own opinions. But all the others who are in the soldiers of a red or black organization are not allowed to express their own opinion. So far we are in Austria, ladies and gentlemen, very much to the difference from the Federal Republic of Germany, where we can have daily discussions in private television stations, controversial discussions about the health of Greece and the rescue of the euro zone. In the ORF this has become a rarity. Now, pretty slowly, as the dam breaks and a few actually trust to jump over the shadow, a discussion is gradually coming up that really takes up controversial political attitudes. You have to keep in mind the dimension of what heights these are, ladies and gentlemen. It's always hidden. €4.3 billion is the only amount of the credit commitments, plus €21.6 billion in liabilities. That's almost €26 billion in payment commitments! 26 billion € in payment commitments! This has to be imagined, what we are wasting on this, and what we are throwing into the throats of pleitelands and maritime banks, ladies and gentlemen. [[Call the BZÖ:Genug paid!]] That is why we are right to say: Enoughly paid, no more money for marode banks and for the pleite countries, because this debt burden is no longer to be dealt with in the future! [[OBJECTIVES]] This new debt alone, by this false decision to help Greece and to finance this permanent rescue shield, will burden every citizen, in addition to the €30 000 he already carries on debt today, with €3 500, my dear ladies and gentlemen. In addition, you will be burdened with your policy, with your decisions here in the House each taxpayer with €3500, and this is not to be blamed for the next generations who no longer have room for their own political ideas, for the implementation of their goals. This is a irrational policy that we want to fight! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The summit is the concept of setting up this ESM, this European Stability Mechanism, a permanent rescue shield. That means installing a central government. That is to say, a community of the debt burden of all 17 euro countries. This means that Austria will also take over the debts of all other countries. That's the ESM! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, they have to remember what it is all about: This European Stability Mechanism is the ruin of Austria, and we must therefore prevent this path into this transfer union! There is no other way to maintain the sovereignty of Austria, the independence of Austria, than to stop this concept and to try to defend it. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] And we want to do this, ladies and gentlemen, by involving people in the form of a People's Survey. They have had the opportunity to vote on the accession to the European Union in 1994, but under completely different signs, under completely different prophecies. This was about the free movement of capital, goods and persons. That's what makes people tasty at the time. I also say: I was in favour of joining the European Union at the time, because I really liked that overall, from the concept. But in the meantime, as I did, many have come to believe that the European Union is going astray with its institutions, which leads us, Austria, into a fatal situation. And we have to stop this mistake. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] At the time, we were talking about a society of opportunity, about the opportunities of Austria – now we are going into a community of fate, and the European Union has become a crisis community, where no one knows how it should actually go. This, of course, also makes people feel, and therefore also the leading government politicians are not willing to get in touch with people. You're not even willing to question the people. Therefore, we want an active involvement of the population and are convinced that there must be a referendum before setting up this permanent rescue shield. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We will also warn in the future that this mistake will happen because it is a huge burden for the people and the next generations of our country. You say today, Mrs Finanzminister, if we don't help Greece if we don't continue to carry out the euro rescue, then Austria would cost €40 billion. I expect you to give us this evening, as part of the answer to our question, once again how you will get to this €40 billion of costs if we do not continue to support Greece, where we know that exports to Greece account for only €500 million a year. In other words, if we don't make 500 million euros per year with Greece, then this 40 billion €, which you have calculated as a damage to the Republic of Austria, will not even take place in the next hundred years. The bill is wrong, Mrs. Finanzminister. They also blind the population by presenting false arguments by saying that if the euro fails and Greece fails, it will cause the European Union to break down as a whole. This is nonsense, ladies and gentlemen. That doesn't want anyone here in this house either! But this is government propaganda, and this is fear-making in the most unappropriate way and therefore, ladies and gentlemen. This must not, as it were, be operated by the government bank. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The misinformation we receive from you can no longer be surpassed. ==References====External links== June, you mentioned that Greece will achieve a primary surplus. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at BZÖ.]] Yes, what figures have you been presented to you that you have come to this conclusion? Greece is not even able to achieve the deficit targets today. The deficit limits have been far exceeded by Greece, and the economic performance is going down. Today, in the newspapers, we have read that in Greece 100 000 officials are being put on the streets and 100,000 officials are released. What does that mean? – 100 000 unemployed more in the future! They will stay on the street and provide swirls, strike, ladies and gentlemen. You should also be concerned about this, Mrs Fekter, and see that this is an absolutely wrong way that Greece cannot be healthy, but that Greece is going further down! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] It is therefore completely illusory that this Greece aid will eventually be seized. I wonder if you have prepared a plan B, just as your colleague Schäuble has already prepared it in Germany, as the Netherlands has done, which Slovakia and Poland do. All the others are preparing to argue for Greece. Did you figure something out in your Ministry of Finance? Have you ever discussed with your officials the consequences for Austria? And if so, tell us today! The only thing you do is teleconferencing, so you don't even meet with the sizes of the European Union again. I don't know what apprehension you attacked. Are you afraid of the journalists, fear of the citizens, or is it not even necessary to make calls in the future when you pick up the billions, but is it simply enough to send a fax or e-mail? – In any case, ladies and gentlemen, this madness is just a disaster. That is why we want to prevent and prevent this permanent establishment of the European Monetary Fund – basically a monetary fund. The contribution of Austria is to make up €20 billion, without the people having a say in it. Yes, taxpayers are allowed to pay, but they cannot express their opinion. They must not demonstrate whether they agree with this political path, but also with this decision. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, let us address our appeal to the Greens, who are now negotiating with them and making their voices available so that the Federal Government can make this fatal decision. We appeal to you to work with us to ensure that the population can vote in favour. And we can do that. There are the relevant laws. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] You only need to put this EFSF and ESM Treaty into a constitutional law, and then you, red, black and green, could decide with a two-thirds majority of this Constitutional Law in the House. Afterwards, we could have a referendum from the opposition, BZÖ, FPÖ and Greens. A third of the Members of the House can vote in favour of the people, ladies and gentlemen. This is the way to an active co-decision, to an active participation of the population. Anyone who has a democratic attitude must support this path. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: We should do that!]] We from the BZÖ do not want a European stability mechanism because it will not solve the problems because it is aggravating the problems because it is pledged to the future of our children and the next generations and because it is a free letter on the destruction of money without control. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, look at the content, look at the Treaty of the European Stability Mechanism! This is an absolute mistake. What we need is an orderly insolvency for Greece. Greece should be able to be healthy with its own national currency. What we need within the euro zone, which is already a euro zone of the two speeds, are two different euros: a North Euro and a South Euro, so that we can also handle the differences in economies. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Carinthia Euro!]] There is an increasing number of economic and economic operators who are of this conviction, because we cannot allow the speed of the slow down within the European Union. The European Union is increasingly throwing it back in competition with the other continents, and we are losing in competitiveness and prosperity. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot do this to the Austrian people and cannot believe it! The BZÖ also stands for this. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, through the back door of these laws the centralist Europe is to be created, and that is not what people want. People are proud of our land, they are proud of what they have created and want to receive. You can also receive it, but only if we remain independent and sovereign. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, we are fighting for this independence of Austria, for which we want to make policy. Therefore, Mrs Finanzminister, prepare a stop of payment for Greece! Stop the transfers to the Maroden Banks and Pleiteländer! Then you will also receive our consent.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e13024	In response to the question, Mrs Federal Minister for Finance, Dr. Fekter, spoke. The speaking time should not exceed 20 minutes. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e13045	Madam President. High house! Over the past few weeks, the situation on the financial markets has re-increased, and the subject of Greece is dominated by the media. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Go! Really? Surprise!]] This shows that we have a systemic crisis, which we will only deal with if we stand together in the euro zone. We first had a banking crisis, which together – together! – has been well managed in Europe, and we now have a debt crisis in the euro zone. That is why we also need to deal with this debt crisis together. Any dissension in the euro zone promotes speculation and imposes on public finances over high interest rates. Austria is a triple-A country, that is, a country with the best credit quality. [[Calls: Still]] And I'm going to fight for it to stay that way, and I'm going to continue the way consistently. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Although in the middle of these unstable times, we have managed well in recent weeks, the Austrian economic situation is good. A thank you from this side to all employees and to all entrepreneurs, who here in Austria maintain the economic fabric well. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Petzner: Let the people vote!]] Our consistent, clear course of action has also led us to continue to be called a stable country, a Triple A country. Our government bonds have unaltered best credit quality and are considered a safe haven. But this does not help us if the world around us becomes unstable. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, we are not on an island of the Blessed! It will endanger our exports and affect our growth if there is an increase in instability in and around us, because our tourists come from those countries that are here, where we export our products or get our products from there cheaply. That is why, together in this market, we also have the stability of our currency. [[New calls from the Abg. Petzner.]] In spring 2011, the Heads of State and Government decided to increase the volume of the rescue shield to €440 billion effectively. You should be assured, ladies and gentlemen: We don't spend a cent lightly. In any case, there is an in-depth case study and a long discussion, together with our European partners. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We have helped Greece with liquidity through a credit programme, and at the same time we have called for reforms from the Greeks. [[Call: That's why it was a business]] It is about bringing Greece back to growth and being competitive. However, this is only possible if the Greeks themselves adhere to a strict saving course and introduce structural reforms. These include savings in expenditure, tax collection under the tax laws they already have, a privatisation and liberalisation offensive, as well as a growth programme, for example by opening up monopolies and stimulating those who want to operate. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's all a business! How much have you transferred?]] Greece is committed to this painful course and has already taken comprehensive decisions. Some of the measures also work well, but we are carefully monitoring whether all requirements are met. Payments are therefore only made if we receive reports from the International Monetary Fund, the Central Bank and the Commission, i.e. this troika, that Greece will be writing positive figures again in a sustainable way, even if, admittedly, this takes a little longer. It is of utmost importance in this matter to address a solution with a view to the front with a sense of responsibility and a sense of responsibility. I am therefore not available for polemics or proposals that cost Austrian taxpayers much more than the aid programme.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e13151	Mrs. Federal Minister, one second! [[Call the BZÖ:Genug paid!]] I know you're waiting for me to ask you to take your posters back. That's what I'm doing. [[Call BZÖ:Thank you, Mrs. Teacher!]] Mrs Bundesminister, I ask you to continue.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e13185	High house! Now to answer the individual questions. Question 1: The Maastricht Treaty was subject to a referendum, which reached an agreement of two thirds of the population. The Euro Rescue Screen and the credit programme to Greece are in line with the Maastricht Treaty. There are no unlimited budgetary prejudices as falsely claimed here. The level of liability is legally legitimate, and it is up to the House to prepare these liability laws. A further answer does not fall within the scope of the Minister for Finance. On question 2: I took part in the Committee on Budgets on 13 November. I would like to express my views in detail on September. As a result, a bankruptcy of Greece is more likely to be than the continuation of aid, as did the Heads of State and Government on 21 December. ==References== In particular, depreciation would be necessary immediately, and various measures under the aid programme would have to be implemented as well. The collapse of the banking system in Greece would have to be supported. The ECB with its purchased bonds should receive a special programme. In other words, direct payments are significant, but much larger, when the break-up of the euro zone results. Question 3: In the event of a collapse of the euro area, there would initially be massive losses in the double-digit billions. More serious, however, is the subsequent adjustment crisis across Europe, which would lead to a massive decline in trade exchange. The financial crisis alone – Mr Petzner, it is too short to think that the 2008 financial crisis alone has caused exports to break by 24 billion. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Petzner.]] [[Abg. Bookbooker: 500 million € per year! It's a nonsense! How do you expect?]] Do not spread sand to the people! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Further calls to the BZÖ.]] The 2008 financial crisis caused exports to break by 24 billion. It is therefore plausible to assume that even greater losses are associated with the collapse of the euro zone, namely not only in the euro zone itself, but of course also in the surrounding region, in the East as well as in the West. This is estimated by experts up to a level of 40 billion – with corresponding effects on employment, domestic demand, on prosperity in our country. After adjustments, the Austrian growth rate would be much lower, our tax revenue would decrease immediately, and this would also give rise to a really negative outlook for our country, for our gross domestic product. The jobs created and the advantage we draw from the euro area have indeed been evaluated by science. So if this advantage is broken again in a sudden manner – and this has been calculated, for example, by Prof. Breuss of the WIFO in the 2010 monthly report 2 – then it would account for more than 40 billion. Question 4: In principle, there has been no change in the assessment, but recent developments show that the upper value would be more likely. Question 5: The developments in Italy have nothing to do with those in Greece, since Italy itself has an economic power. Italy, like any other euro country, has to do its homework. On question 6: If Greece fulfils its obligations, the models show that Greece can repay the aid, but admittedly only in years. I assume that the Greek Government is aware of the great responsibility and will fully and quickly implement the legally agreed measures. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, there is currently no legal regime for state insolvency in monetary union. Only the European Stability Mechanism, which is decided here in the House - I hope with the Greens' agreement - only this mechanism provides for some regulations on how to deal with state insolvency. At present, we have no rule in this regard. Question 7: The Maastricht Treaty provides that all countries of the European Union, except the United Kingdom and Denmark, have the objective of joining monetary union and creating a common zone of stability. A smaller monetary union brings less economic benefits than a larger monetary union, as competitively motivated currency devaluations are harmful to the internal market and employment. Question 8: The Balance of Payments Stabilisation Act – which is already in the House – was adopted in 2009 and the novelle has already been sent to this House. This law provides for the authorisation of the Federal Minister for Finance to participate in all international aid measures where relevant Austrian interests are concerned. The law therefore goes beyond aid to euro countries. The most important thing is the fact that the National Council has budgetary sovereignty and therefore has to approve the framework for lending and liability – as with many other laws. Quartal reporting keeps the National Council up-to-date on operations. The EFSF agreement, i.e. this umbrella, is a private contract under English law between the euro countries. The society itself, which stands behind it, is established in accordance with Luxembourg law. We have a share of the size, as we have at the European Central Bank. The Agreement should be amended quickly in order to be able to respond to changed market conditions. The Agreement as such is not subject to approval by the National Council. The agreement can be viewed on the EFSF's homepage and is thus public. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Yes, but not the change yet!]] In Austria, for example, the control bank handles export credits, and this is an international practice. In addition, the Federal Ministry of Finance yesterday informed the Parliamentary Directorate of the current changes to the EFSF. The Parliamentary Directorate is in possession of the last documents, and I hope, Madam President, that this will also be transmitted to the political groups and clubs.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e13279	Has been sent to you yesterday, Mrs. Federal Minister!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e13306	On the question 9: The authorisation to grant loans and liabilities to the Euro Redemption Screen is governed by the Balance of Payments Stabilisation Act. It is the Federal Minister for Finance in agreement with the Federal Chancellor. As of mid-2013, the European Stability Mechanism is expected to deal with the aid. It is established by a contract of international law. This will be approved by the National Council. Question 10: The ESM Treaty has already been negotiated. The heads of state and government of the euro zone took place on 21 December. In July of this year, measures were adopted which also concern the Treaty which had already been negotiated. My line is, the changes to the absolute minimum of the decisions of 21. To limit it on July. There are no further questions in the discussion at present. On the question 11: The Ministry of Finance does not need to submit a draft law, to limit speculation or to prohibit high-risk transactions such as empty sales, because this is done with § 48d para. 12 Stock exchange law is already the subject of the Austrian legal system and this House, which has already decided – so we do not need to do it again – and secondly, such a project, especially special arrangements for Short Sellings, Credit Default Swaps et cetera, is also negotiated at EU level in the form of a directive. [[Complementary by representatives of the ÖVP]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Why will it take place? Then why are there sales, colleagues from the ÖVP?]] [[Abg. Head: Why are there thefts, even though they are forbidden?]] Question 12: A single entry of Austria would not be very useful, because it would result in no reduction, but only in a shift of speculation to other countries. The introduction of such a tax would have to be done across the EU. There have already been appropriate contacts with the Commission. The main points of such a tax from the Austrian point of view are set out. The government supports this. We actively operate any initiative at EU level in this area. On the question 13: The new taxation of capital assets will cover general commodity gains from securities and thus also material gains from financial speculation. In addition, there is a proposal for an EU-wide financial transaction tax, which is expected to take place on 5 May. It will be discussed in the Commissioners' College on October. The Federal Government has already expressed its support for the introduction of a financial transaction tax several times. I once again strongly deposited this last weekend in the context of the informal ECOFIN meeting in Poland and therefore welcome the initiative at EU level. Question 14: Such a scheme would be contrary to the constitutionally standardised law-enforcement. Furthermore, the pricing of credit institutions must be made subject to business considerations. Question 15: The experts of the Federal Ministry of Finance finalize the legislative preparatory work. My aim is to present to the House this year a relevant government proposal. On the question 16: I am open to all proposals to filter out the best ideas for structural reform under the premise of easier, less, more powerful, families and the ecological way forward. There are no bans on thinking. We will deal with all the proposals in concrete terms. On the question 17: There is a valid contract with Greece providing for aid payments if the conditions and conditions are met. It is the task of the International Monetary Fund, the European Central Bank and the Commission to examine this compliance with the requirements. As you could read from the media, this is happening continuously. However, politicians from some countries have declared that they do not exclude insolvency. However, this is not an official attitude of any euro area, quite the contrary, there is currently no legal procedure, no rules or standards, both at EU level and at euro-zone level, that could deal with insolvency. On the margins of the informal ECOFIN meeting last week, the Dutch Finance Minister signed the EFSF Agreement. On the question 18: In the latest forecast of the International Monetary Fund, real growth for Austria is expected to be 1.6 percent, but at the same time growth is revised upwards for 2011. In its June forecast, WIFO has adopted a real growth of 1.8 percent for next year, with both organisations starting from very similar levels of economic activity for 2012, i.e. for the next year. So there is currently no reason to accept significant deviations from the key values set out in our BFRG and the Strategy Report and to draw apocalyptic scenarios. [[Abg. Kickl: These are the June numbers!]] On question 19: There are no such calculations. However, it is clear that investors are currently looking for safe ports for their facilities. Austria is such a safe port, and therefore the interest rate for Austrian government bonds is currently very low at 2.55 percent for ten years. [[Abg. Kickl: We should send a Commission on Administrative Reform to Greece!]] This is proof that we have come through the crisis well and are now trying to maintain stability and not excite unrest.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e13431	We are now going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 10 minutes. Each club has a total speaking time of 25 minutes. First, Mr Mag. Mag. Stadler. I'll set the clock to 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e13458	Madam President. High house! [[The speaker places an orange table with the title “Faithful! ” on the speaker’s desk.]] “If it gets serious, you have to lie.” – I thought that now. This is quoted according to the head of the Euro-Group Jean-Claude Juncker. “If it gets serious, you have to lie.” – What is it like, Mrs. Federal Minister, with your primary surplus of the Greeks you expected? Before the “primary surplus”, the Greek government is currently deciding to put thousands of officials on the street. Before the loud “primary surplus”, which you have predicted to us! You still pretended to be a business! Its predecessor even explicitly referred to it as a business when the first time in this House was debated about the aid package for the Greeks. - It's expressive! You called it a business in the media! [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: No, I never said that!]] [[Interim calls at BZÖ and FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: There's a record!]] Ah, you didn't say it anymore? Okay. Good: If it gets serious, you have to lie. - It's serious now, Mrs. Minister! – Aha, a complete success from the Raiffeisen faction: [[Abg. Ing. Schultes: Stadler, it's not that serious yet! You don't have to lie yet!]] It's not serious at all, it's all still funny! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: “... funny! Everything's not so serious yet"!]] Please, that's the ÖVP! She doesn't think all of this is serious yet! I'm glad that's in the stenographic protocol. From the Group of the European People's Party (Christian It's not serious yet! – If you've been listening to the Minister of State, you think that's the echo of your own group. A business is supposed to be all that! [[Call the ÖVP: on the matter!]] So if this is all a business, why do the Dutch think about a state insolvency? - Because this is so “great”! Then why does the Federal Minister of Finance of the Federal Republic of Germany Schäuble, who is not really one of the stupidest, already develop a plan B? Why if that's all so great? Why do the Finns say they're no longer willing to give any euro or take a liability if you don't give them security if that's such a great deal? Then why do the Slovaks say they don't join again? And the Czechs say we don't want to introduce the euro at all! Then why is all this so if it's such a great business? Ladies and gentlemen of the Coalition, and in particular you, Mrs Federal Minister! Nothing of what you predicted, or you too, Mr. “Professor” Krainer, or the “University Professor” Matznetter, has occurred. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: It's not allowed to talk today!]] – Mr. “Professor” Krainer may not even speak today, that is remarkable anyway. Following his announcement of an investigation committee, he was banned from speaking. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Petzner.]] After what you have said to us, we have to deal with Greece in a completely different way today, namely how we distribute the profits that come from Greece! – Nothing of what you have announced in the last one and a half years has occurred, but it has always happened exactly the opposite. The situation has become increasingly difficult, has become more and more uneven. It has become more and more catastrophic. And what is now being put to the attention of the Greeks is the preparation of a civil war there, ladies and gentlemen! That's how it looks! And all this is supposed to be the “primary surplus” of the Greeks you promised us, Mrs. Federal Minister? Why don't you say anything about your own failed announcements? You do not have any Kasperl event in front of you, but that is Parliament! That's a budget authority! We have a budget authority! – Yes, on your greens now comes a key position. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Tell me how you want to solve this!]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: Yes, please, it has to move forward now!]] So nothing of these predictions has occurred! We are currently counting the loan commitments we have envisaged and the liabilities we have anticipated to count about 26 billion – without interest! Without interest – I emphasize this; that is, the amount actually falling will be even higher. [[Abg. May. Kogler: We have been saying that for a year and a half!]] And now you come with the ESM. The ESM, this permanent, permanent rescue shield, is so “great” that we cannot even control! Not that you believe I don't have the last version now; I hope the newspaper “The Press” has the last version. I quote from the press: There is no ‘parliamentary control’ of this ESM ‘provisioned’. ‘His activity is not public and not transparent. An audit by the EU Court of Auditors is not foreseen.” [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Madness!]] Not even the audit by the Court of Auditors, ladies and gentlemen. That means that the citizen can only pay, but he must not examine anything because it is the unconditional capitulation of the finance ministers in front of the markets! Ladies and gentlemen, you have long given the booklet out of hand! Don't pretend you have anything to decide! You've been involved, and now you hang in there and you have to come with the handcushion. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] And all this with the tax payment money of the Austrians. I know, when you talk to your people, everyone has become increasingly unwell from spring to late summer. [[Abg. Bucher: Yes!]] I'd be unwell, too. I've been unwell from the beginning. I can only tell you that in the debate in April, Mr Bucher said literally that Greece can only be healthy if it leaves the euro zone. [[Abg. May. Kogler: May! - But it's meaty!]] No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, [[Abg. May. Kogler: “Sended ”!]] [[Abg. Street: And we already in February 2009!]] I would also like to say once again in the debate, also in the debate. We have always said two different speeds: a core euro and a corresponding southern euro. You know what? It was then... – Yes, the “blueprint” fraction has always known everything before! [[Abg. Street: We already in February 2009!]] [[Abg. There you slept!]] All we know is that you've messed up everything. You let us think! But that's what we're gonna do. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the point is another one. It's not about the liberals. The point is that you have been mis-estimated by the government parties, these mis-evaluations have become a huge risk to Austrian taxpayers today, because we are now hanging in it, and that this wrong path is being pursued further. And at the end – I predict it to you – the crisis will still not be avertable. In the meantime, everyone at European level says behind-handedly: We know that the Greek pleite has become inevitable. - Because she's unfinanceable, ladies and gentlemen. It's unfinancing! This is something that some of you in your own ranks still have an idea of doing their own in the Federal Government! And yet continue along this path, Austrian taxpayers move on, deeper into it, continue to put Austrian tax money on the table, and thus the Austrian comes more to the handkuss. And now comes the central question: How will you get this ESM through Parliament? – Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, now you have been addressed. You have the key role to play now! [[Abg. May. Kogler: Because you already gave the spoon!]] Mr Kogler, watch closely now! This is because it is a matter of how you will behave. That's what we're going to look at! That's gonna be the green nail sample now. [[Abg. May. Kogler: That's it!]] For, ladies and gentlemen: The liberals have already said they do not agree with the ESM. We have also said that we do not agree. [[Abg. May. Kogler: You don't even know how he looks yet!]] That is, only with your voices is the two-thirds majority attainable. Therefore, if you are willing to make sure that the government has to present an appropriate B-VG-Novelle... [[Abg. May. Kogler: You haven't made a single proposal so far! Put forward a proposal!]] Oh, yes, I did, and I am telling you, Mr Kogler, to listen carefully. –: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: We can't print money!]] [[Quoted print version removed]] We can then demand three opposition fractions, compelling! [[Abg. May. Kogler: To do this, you have to construct a Constitutional Law, which is none at all! – What else should we do?]] So, now it depends on the green, so we're on the green nail sample now: If you now give this government your consent, as a robber's leader, so that it can decide the ESM without asking the people, then you are responsible for it! This is about the future of the next generations, not about any small story. This is a question of whether the future of Austrian universities – such a great concern – is being played out or not. This is a question of whether this country can be caught up in debt by a government that, in fact, does not know how to defend itself at EU level – or whether we are asking the Austrian federal people to do so. And I could already imagine what the Austrian federal people think of it. It's your greens now, the ball's with you now! We've said we're not going there. The blues also said they didn't go with me. Now it's on the greens! So if you demand that one of these three or all three laws with a constitutional law come into the house here, we have the possibility to choose which law we implement a referendum. [[Abg. May. Kogler: First of all, there must be a Constitutional Law! Keep it going!]] Then I look at what the people think of the great business ideas of Mrs Fekter and her predecessor, who has been supplied with Raiffeisen, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. May. Kogler: Go, please!]] Then I look at whether Mrs Fekter is thinking about her supply to Raiffeisen. [[New call for tender of the Abg. May. Kogler.]] – I know, Mr Kogler, now you are shocked, now you see for the first time that you are being taken into responsibility. Now the Greens are for the first time in full responsibility as to whether the Austrian federal people are included or not. It's up to you now, and we're looking at exactly how you're going to have this green nail sample. And then I look at you the next time you come here and explain to you when you fail again. Mr Van der Bellen, too, has not been right in his forecasts. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Why?]] He has come to the speaker's desk here and has meant that this will be necessary now, you can't let the Greeks hang. You're going to put that right now, and it'll be possible to get the money back. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: This is stupid!]] – No, no, at the very beginning, you even dismissed our proposal – to be read literally – with regard to the withdrawal of the Greeks from the eurozone as stupid. [[Abg. May. Kogler: That's something else!]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] - Oh, yeah, that's it! That is, we are now looking at exactly what the greens are doing. You will have a nail sample to deliver with this question, and I am already eager to see how you exist.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e13938	Mr Matznetter has now been notified to the House. Before taking the floor, I would like to say that Mr Stadler's motion for a resolution, which has just been tabled, is properly put to the debate. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e14054	Next speaker: Mr Matznetter. I'll set the clock up to 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e14075	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! The truth content of the statements made by my predecessor can be verified immediately: He said I'm not gonna talk. – I was already on the speaker list before he said that. [[Call the BZÖ:Krainer! Krainer doesn't talk! “Professor” Krainer!]] I'm interested in something else that's much more interesting. Why are you – and I say that consciously – with that per you? He always says “even” and“ you ” on this question. That surprises me very much. I prefer to stay with you in relation to the degree of the snoring voice and come to the point “genuine paid!”. [[Abg. May. Stadler: You can't follow a speech at all!]] This issue, shown here at the Taferlklassen level, cannot be associated with today's issue because it concerns liability. But “genug paid!” would have been a good opportunity to bring together colleagues from the BZÖ... – The “Bienenzochterverein Österreichs”, à la Ewald Stadler. [[Call BZÖ:Dem BZÖ! The BZÖ, you grammar genius!]] [[New continuous calls to the BZÖ.]] Bravo, congratulate for the self-esteem. You should have kept this Taferl high before Hubsi Gorbach issued a decree to get money from Telekom. You should have kept it high before 613 million were transferred to the Deutsche Bank under its aegide and hundreds of millions were lost. You should have kept it high before Mr Scheibner signed, although he said, no Eurofighter. The next day the contract was there. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] At that time you should have kept it high, then hundreds of millions would be in the hands of taxpayers. But no, you're here today and you're saying, Enough paid! – So much for the seriousness of this troop. But now we're on the core issue we're facing today. Of course, there is a fundamental interest in Greece's insistence today rather than tomorrow. Mr Roubini and Mr Ackermann, and as they all call it, the Federal Minister's account is not that they would suffer damage from it. The exact opposite applies to them, because they have acquired so-called CDS at double-digit heights and are waiting for the day on which this status occurs. They then receive the billions out of the pleite of Greece. [[Abg. Bucher: And you save them! You save the banks!]] They always find useful... – I must not say this word – which still represents it because they believe that this is a good thing for the population. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But let's talk about the serious! It's not about Greece alone. That would be our least problem. However, I do not mean these simple computers, such as Mr Petzner, who believe that direct export to Greece would be our only trade union that did not understand that every diesel engine from Steyr appears in a car sold in Greece in Germany's statistics. But now to explain national contexts, I give up that, you have to play it in the solarium. The core of the question is: What happens if Greece falls? – This reminds us that, as Mr Paulson already announced in spring, a bank must make them plead, otherwise all banks are sure that they will be saved. And the Americans have executed this. They've taken the bank that has the slightest internal American interdependence. They didn't take too big a bank, they took Lehman Brothers. The administration employs a number of experts, and they were so shocked when they saw what was happening. In view of today's integration of financial markets, not Lehman was the problem. Lehman had a capital base that would exist today, Basel III. Lehman was not bankrupt because of overindebtedness, not at all, the bank was highly profitable. In the moment when the illiquidity occurs, a number of guarantees are being struck, so that in the next second, Lehman is the world's largest insurance company, because it has made the insurances on those papers that have been dictated and sliced and packaged and sold as ABS and CDOs. What about Greece? Who believes that this is limited to Greece alone? – In Asia we experienced it in 1998, in one country after another; the Thai Baht, the Korean Won, then the Ringgit. And of course, the moment a country succeeds, the caravan moves on and plunders the next. Be sure, ladies and gentlemen, where there are billions to get, the financial industry will pick them up, and do not believe that only Portugal and Spain will be able to do so! In spring 2009 – and those who have borne the responsibility know what that meant – we noticed it. Within days, our spreads were up. The situation was more risky than it is now in Greece. It was the European Union that immediately provided €50 billion after Sepp Pröll's speech. That's how Austria was saved. Let us be glad that the other European countries are not guided by politicians like you are, then we would have been in the Bredouille! I hope for our country that this will never happen again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e14164	Mr Dr. Stummfully has now come to speak. I'll set the clock on desired 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e14185	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that there is no question that Europe and, above all, the Eurozone are in a really serious situation. Only recently – I think it was yesterday – did the Financial Times Germany mention that the eurozone is driving to a height of the sovereign debt crisis. The new head of the Monetary Fund, Christine Lagarde, former Minister of Finance of France, just yesterday drew the bow much further in an interview and meant that the whole world economy is drifting into a dangerous phase. – We are facing this situation, so I would actually expect that no one is trying to change political change from this situation. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] I don't talk to anyone in detail. Everyone who feels addressed should feel addressed, Mr. Strache, because you look at me like that. [[Abg. You're yourself!]] They seem to feel addressed. [[Abg. You're yourself!]] Okay, you feel you're in touch. [[Abg. Strache: They are the ones who double and triple the damage!]] Let's stick to the facts! Mr Bucher, since March there was hardly a plenary session in which you did not say the same thing: ‘Faith paid!’ You have money for the Greeks, you have no money for us! – We have heard this populism every time. [[Abg. That's right, too!]] I would, however, expect that in such a serious situation, a national shoulder closure would be more likely to be held together. In that sense, I appeal to you. [[Abg. Strache: What solidarity do you live? They're with the perpetrators, aren't they?]] Mr Strache, you too, of course, have relatively easy, you have it relatively easy for two reasons. First of all – I have said that before –: They have it easy, therefore, because – and this is a lack – the European Union does not have a smart communication strategy. I said just yesterday at the meeting of the financial committee members in Warsaw that the European Union has no communication strategy to explain to people what is actually going on. [[Abg. Kickl: That's what she has with the ÖVP!]] Therefore, the populists may have the advantage of first filed a few points with simple sayings at the main table. [[Abg. Kickl: The first populists are the ones who are beautiful to talk about!]] The second is that everyone has no responsibility. Mr Matznetter said it. Who of you who are so clever today would have predicted that Lehman Brothers' pleite would trigger a global financial crisis? If you say now that Greece is supposed to leave the euro zone, then that is what Andreas Koller wrote in the “Salzburger Nachrichten” recently : [[Abg. Only 2 per cent of European GDP!]] This is political roulette, ladies and gentlemen! And we're not available for that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] No one, Mr Strache, can predict exactly how large a fire is, no one can predict the domino effects. But all the experts in Europe, national economists, government experts, scientists, economic researchers, are currently only calculating one – and that is also the scale for us: What is the least painful variant for our taxpayers? Mr Bucher! [[Abg. Bucher: “This is a business!”]] I have repeatedly said here from the speaker's desk that each credit is opportunity and risk at the same time. A loan offers the opportunity to achieve a profit through the interest rate, but the risk that it will not be repaid. This is the case with every loan, not only with Greece. Each credit means opportunity and risk at the same time. So stop with that polemic that anyone would have said it was a huge business! [[Abg. Bucher: You gave your own applause!]] Ladies and gentlemen, the only criterion for us, which we bear responsibility, is – once again –: It must be the least painful solution for the taxpayer. And all the scenarios we have so far indicate that there is no gentle exit from the euro. There is no such thing, ladies and gentlemen. All the experts say that. The domino effects and the surface fire that would trigger would, I believe, be a multiple of the global financial crisis. Lehman Brothers alone has triggered a global financial crisis. – Do you think that leaving the eurozone is nothing to do with you?- Oh, my God! Mrs Finanzminister, I am very glad that you have spoken about the fact that in this whole dramatic situation, Austria is a safe haven. That we pay only 2.55 percent interest for our bonds, ten-year bonds, is a signal that we are indeed a safe port. I am convinced, Mrs Finanzminister, that your activities at European level, through the activities of this Federal Government Austria, will remain a safe haven for investors in all this chaos that is emerging.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e14355	Mr Klubobmann Strache is now speaking. I'll set the clock to 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e14376	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Perhaps a few words on what Mr Klubobmann Bucher from the BZÖ, who unfortunately is not present, said. – Mr Bucher, you are making fun of those unemployed Austrians who, of course, are affected by the fact that by opening the Eastern European labour market, we are experiencing another process of displacement. The Federal Ministry of Labour confirms, with the figures currently published, that since the opening of the eastern borders, we have around 30 000 Eastern European workers in addition to Austria. Without adding seasonal eggs, this means that in the first year, 70 000 Eastern European workers are pushing our labour market and thus Austrians are pushing into unemployment, and that this process will naturally continue to become a more intense process, rather than bulging. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Just make fun of it! The Austrians who are affected will not understand this. Mr Bucher, you made yourself here today and you mean that you would have eaten the wisdom with the spoon privately. – So I don’t have a problem at all and I certainly don’t make fun of the fact that your parents have a successful host company, that they always help you there and are part of your parents and are part of this family business, but I’ve built and successfully managed a business myself as an entrepreneur. In contrast to you, I have achieved much more success privately and have not taken over anything from my parents. – I just want to make that clear because you put this into the room today. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] On the other hand, I would also like to address the strange copying machinery that the BZÖ has to offer. It is fact that in February 2009, the Freedom Party already demanded what you then delayed us in April 2010 – that is, 14 months before you, because we analyzed it in good time and in good time – to pull the emergency brake in good time and release Greece from the euro zone, because it could have minimized the damage. Due to the processes of red and black side, the damage is not minimized and limited today, but you potentiate it. That's the basic problem we have. They increase the damage, potentify it. What we are experiencing today is the economic and political disaster of a Brussels centralism, which is lived and supported by you. These Eurofanatics, as they are working on this issue today, sometimes seem to me as at the time the GDR regime, which was ultimately also sitting in the political offices and tried to hold the Marxist brains, because they had still not gotten what development was happening, although the people had long since started to tear the wall and break into the west. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Just such a process is taking place today in the European Union, which is ultimately dramatic. If you do not pull the rower around, this centralist European Union will experience a fate similar to that of the real existing socialism. We need to talk about this openly. This has nothing to do with populism, but it has to do with truth, Lord stupid! The biggest populists who have spoken of business from the beginning are at your home. Let us remember your former Minister of Finance Josef Pröll, who spoke of “business” at the time of the crisis in Portugal and Ireland and of the liabilities we took over, and, of course, that continues towards Greece. Think of those who give the impression that Greece is pleading – what it is – then this is supposed to cost us Austrians €40 billion! In view of that, I wonder where the populists really are. In reality, this is not the attempt to communicate: If we hadn't helped, it would have cost us 40 billion, maybe it's only 25 billion!Unknown term type: "%s".? That's nonsense! The Austrian economy has invested €4 billion in Greece, and we have already transferred €6.3 billion to cash capital of Austrian taxpayers – in reality, but not in Greece, but in the direction of banks and bank speculators who are the perpetrators with whom you live solidarity. This is our Austrian tax money! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] €6.3 billion paid in cash, took over another 15 billion in liability. This is what Austrian taxpayers are supposed to do, thanks to you, because you do not live in solidarity with the citizens, namely the victims, but with the perpetrators, the bank speculators. That's crazy! I say we need every tax center in Austria. We have massive problems. We face massive problems in a wide range of areas. We need every cent to invest in education, to invest in our labour market, to invest in our families, for which you have permanent cuts, to care and health. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] – And you stand here and try to explain to the Austrians that this would be kind of useful what you are doing?- Oh, my God! That is not true, but the opposite. I am glad that more and more are awakening in Europe and that the Slovak President of Parliament Richard Sulik is now also courageously facing this issue. He met with me and made it clear that he wanted to form an alliance with us against the EFSF and against the ESM – not text, as Mr Bucher said, but ESM – which in reality must be prevented. We don't want to be expropriated. That's exactly your policy you're living. People will no longer like to be looted on one side for a centralist moloch, on the other hand to have to hear from you permanently, we live solidarity with the bank speculators and perpetrators who have done this. - Yes, you're on your side. The banks are accountable! It belongs to a banking bankruptcy order. The banks should have taken over 50 percent of the default from the start. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If they hadn't managed, we'd have had to state the banks. That would have been an honest way. From the very beginning, Greece should have been allowed to share debt, but it should have been released from the euro zone from the euro zone, as we called for in February 2009 as the only Austrian party from the outset, because it never met the criteria and because this would be the only chance for the Greeks, for the Greeks. Only then would there be a chance for the Greeks to devalue themselves. The economy could catch itself again, and the Greeks would have a chance to repay the debts sometime. With this mechanism that you accompany, the exact opposite is the case. In the end, the Greeks will stay on the track, but also the rest of Europe, if perhaps the euro goes down. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] These are the developments we are facing and are warning against. The Freedom Party has asked from the outset: Where is the promise of the Federal Chancellor Werner Faymann? He said that if such drastic developments and changes occur in the EU Treaty, then a referendum will take place. He promised this in writing to the “Kronen Zeitung. ” - Where is he, Mr. Faymann? He is now the great "inserator" of the American "Governator". As an "inserator", he performs a photo appointment with the former "Governator" in California. There he is now. But where is he with his promise of a referendum? - That's to be done. We are experiencing a development contrary to the genuine EU treaties. The European Union has consistently broken its own treaties for years. It should have been kept right from the start. But you're playing in these contract breaks. It would only have to be called upon to finally comply with the Treaties and not to break them permanently. But here you are fellow perpetrators when it comes to breaking the treaties, and also fellow perpetrators, not even wanting to allow our own people to vote on how to shape the future and development. That's where we're going to stop. It is about being responsible for our own people. Our taxpayers have to be used for our compatriots and don't take over €25 billion or more with liabilities that are missing in the end, which will make you lose the future of our coming generations. That's not nothing. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This would enable us to address our social problems in so many areas today, to address our educational problems. The university billion we've been discussing today is also inside. The university billion you don't have for the students now, you've delivered to the bank speculators and sunk in the Aegean. Let's speak to the truth! And that's the truth. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That's why, basically, exactly the opposite of what we hear again and again: Well, only with the first aid can we ensure that this will not be a fire that will not be extended to other countries of the European Union. We hear constantly, every day we experience that exactly the opposite is the case. After Portugal, Ireland, Greece, Italy and Spain are now at the door. The process continues. This is almost a great pyramid game you play here – a pyramid game, since everyone has to be aware of the fact that someone who is pleading can't throw a healthy and good money. Which private citizen, who can't afford anything more, would you pay €200 000 today, even though he already has €200 000 in debt and can't repay it, so that he may be able to serve the first debt? That's ghastly, that's what every ordinary citizen understands. There's no need to study the economy. This cannot work and it will lead us into further dramatic situations. And that is just what is not responsible, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: But they have to organize the pleite!]] Of course, you're from the greens who call back, making the cat bump. They're making the cat ball. They make the climbbar holder for exactly such developments. And it's just a question of price until you agree and the two-thirds majority will allow. Then you'll ask again: What was the performance? – As with the Lord Van der Bellen, who ultimately also works as a university consultant for €220 000 a year, but in reality no one knows what he is doing. [[Call the ÖVP: Madness!]] These are exactly your behavioral patterns, and that is exactly what we expect. Yes, that is what we expect and we unfortunately have to count on God. [[Abg. May. Kogler: You're not making a suggestion!]] But that is certainly not the way the Austrians expect.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e14515	Mr Van der Bellen has now come to speak. 10 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e14536	Thank you, Madam President. . I now go very consciously to low blood pressure and try to outline the five steps that will be taken in the near and near future if we are interested in Europe if we continue to be interested in the European Union – and I have that. [[Rejoicing]] Step one: We must distinguish between the insolvents and the illiquids. And this distinction has not yet subjugated me. We believe, in my opinion, that the only country in the European Union, which is insolvent and not illiquid, is Greece. And not only since yesterday, as has been claimed here in various ways, I am convinced from the beginning, that is, since the beginning of the crisis at the beginning of 2010. What's the difference? – In the case of an insolvency, we need a regulated compensation procedure, just as it applies to companies. The bank also works with the company and says: Is it basically viable? Yes or no? Better than losing everything, we'd rather give up on some of the creditor's claims. And if enough many creditors agree, the compensation rate is 40, 50, 60 percent. In principle it is the same with Greece, only we do not have this regulated compensation procedure yet. That has already been pointed out. We, the Europeans, the European Union, have also failed to do so for a year and a half. We could have it. Article 12 in the future ESM Treaty, as it is currently formulated, is a kind of rudimentary compensation procedure, Mrs Fekter, but we very much doubt that this will be enough. In the case of Greece, not only is it a question of the budget alone, but Greece obviously has such profound structural problems to deal with, for years to come, with these issues. Austria, if I'm not mistaken, has a real estate treasurer since empress Maria Theresia. Greece still has no such thing. For example, for a foreign investor who wants to create a factory somewhere, he would like to make sure that the land and land he buys in Greece will also belong to him in the future. These are completely trivial obstacles to the development of Greece. Or: The European Commission is well prepared to take Greece under the arms of the Structural Funds now, but the administrative structures – as the Commission presented to us yesterday and yesterday, when the Green Club was in Brussels – in Greece are simply not such that the Greeks can manage these billions in a meaningful way. So these are very profound problems. What I do not mean by that, expressly not mine, is that Greece's exit from the euro zone. I think that's a snap idea – for various reasons. I think it is even a snap idea to now promote that the world will heal if we have a North Euro and a South Euro and a West Euro and an East Euro and a Carinthian Euro and a Burgenian Euro. If this is your recipe, if this is the recipe of a once self-defined economic party, then I only say: Good night! [[Abg. Petzner: Didn't you listen to me?]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: No one said that!]] Look Once you're up to what that would mean! Greece is insolvent and should receive a corresponding debt ratio. I don't understand the difficulties. I say that quite realistically. That means, of course, in the second step, that we must have an eye on it: Which banks are affected like that? It's not going to save us. And we will again have the same debate as in 2008, but hopefully this time on a good information basis. Which banks are at risk there? Which French banks have what shares in Greek banks, which are, of course, the most vulnerable in this situation? How do we deal with the Greek bonds parked in the European Central Bank? And, and, and so. These are all important questions, but should not prevent us from realistically saying: Yes, Greece is insolvent. Let's pull the consequence out of it! But, again, Greece remains a member of the Eurozone. Thirdly, Growth. As long as growth in Greece and elsewhere does not attract, the debt crisis cannot be overcome. This simply depends on the relationship between nominal interest rates and nominal growth rates. Here we have a problem first rank. It is only particularly evident in Greece. In other words, in Austria and in other EU countries, we should say: Budget consolidation, yes, is correct and important, but within the budget, within the expenditure structure, within the tax structure, we must make every effort to promote economic growth. Otherwise, we won't get out of this mess. And at present, the whole Union is too fixed to the issue of deficit reduction, austerity, austerity, austerity. That alone, ladies and gentlemen, will not bring us forward. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Fourth: We need for the time – for the next time, I would almost have said – that 2012 at the latest, we need some kind of firewall against speculative developments, as we have seen them in Greece. We must be aware that every small country in the Union, in the case of Austria, is exposed to developments that cannot control it alone, but that the financial markets are able to produce self-fulfilled prophecies. I'm missing the time to deal with it now. But that is one of the most important arguments for me to argue for the introduction of so-called Eurobonds, which would create a market close to the American in size, liquidity. And that's what I'm looking at, which financial speculator is speculating against the US dollar. There would be theoretical arguments to get out of the dollar, but it is in no way comparable to what happened in Greece, Italy, Spain and so on. So Eurobonds under certain restrictive conditions, just as Juncker and Tremonti sketched them a year ago. Fifth – and this is, of course, a very important point –: In all these mechanisms, which we now push more or less improvisedly out of the ground, we must start from the so-called, terrible word, intergovernmental method. In the long run, it is unbearable for governments to make up for each other, whether the Heads of Government or the ECOFIN people, to come here and say: Nick this off, please! – That’s unbearable! That starts with the information. I do not want to spread about how ridiculous it is to say that the EFSF Treaty – that is what it originally called – is that it does not need to have the EFSF Treaty, because it is only a private contract. This argument is just ridiculous! We took the contract from the German Ministry of Finance's homepage a long time ago, but that cannot be the final conclusion of wisdom. Secondly, the information rights and co-determination rights of the national parliaments and of the European Parliament. There we shall see: Karlsruhe has now decided something about the EFSF Treaty and the co-determination of the German Committee on Budgets. We too have to consider what will be the role of this House in the EFSF or later in the ESM – whether it be the Financial Committee, whether it be the main committee or a new committee to be set up. So it is about developing new checks and balances within the framework of the European Union, which the Members of this House or the Members of the European Parliament do not downgrade, as is the case at present. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I am convinced that the European Union can come out of this crisis if it finally tells the citizens the truth. It doesn't make sense to do anything else, as if everything were wont and grievances. I do not want to roll up all the misprognosis and misrepresentation that has occurred in the last one and a half years. It's all given. However, I believe that the ESM is anything other than the fall of Austria, as was claimed here. I think it is just an unscrupulous attempt to create panic, Mr Bucher. [[Abg. Bucher: Panic creates the government!]] That is a so-called economic party absolutely – absolutely! – unworthy! On the contrary: I consider the ESM to be the core, the nucleus of a future European Monetary Fund, an aid mechanism for illiquid states, not insolvent states. This is an essential difference that we must keep in mind. And I continue to believe that the new EFSF Treaty brings substantial improvements to the old one, such as the possibility of intervention on secondary markets, such as the possibility of recapitalisation of banks that are about to take place soon, which is important and should be done quickly. These are both important issues which relieve the European Central Bank, with the ECB carrying out tasks for which it was not actually responsible. But I have to say: Thank God she has nevertheless performed these tasks as the only functioning institution within the Union, one sometimes thinks, and for that they should not be criticized. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e14656	Now comes Mr. Ing. Westenthaler. I'll set the clock up to 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e14677	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Dear Professor Van der Bellen, in much of what you say, you're quite right. Sometimes you wonder, though. Point one: Of course, there is a difference between insolvency and illiquidity, but this does not excite the Austrian who has to pay for both. We must be paid, and we therefore say: Enough paid! No matter if illiquid or insolvent. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: Now you really haven't understood it again!]] Secondly, Professor Van der Bellen, I am also surprised by the origin of your entire movement – and there is already the right thing for Mr Stadler, it will be the sample of nails for you, as you behave there – now suddenly this celebration of this new treaty. And that of a party that always stands for control and transparency and openness, for direct democracy. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Direct Democracy!]] Today, one could read in the “press ” what this contract means. Quote: “Wherever it is” – in this Treaty – “is that a powerful EU institution is created here, for which neither public transparency nor parliamentary control is provided.” Mr. Van der Bellen! That's what you're celebrating here, from a party that always acts publicly for such things?- Oh, my God! [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] There you can also read: ‘His activity is not public and not transparent.’ And: “Obviously, they wanted to prevent any public, political discussion about the ESM’s action.” Professor Van der Bellen! I don't understand. Just as little as I understand that your group here is doing to the government, which is the rescue shield and the billions of payments, the robbers – and it is a robber’s leader – without involving the population without asking the population. Mr Van der Bellen, Kogler, Glavischnig – unfortunately not here today –: You are a movement that, on its own, claims to be out of citizens' initiatives, out of a directly democratic initiative. You say you've got the ear on the voters like that. Yeah, why are you driving over the voters and agreeing with red and black, your green traitors? – This is the truth: You're betraying your voters! [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] And the same thing happens in all other countries. The greens, the old-backed greens have long been in service. And then developments arise as in Berlin. It was exactly the same in Berlin. The President of the Greens has already felt that she is a mayor with over 30 percent. And what happened? – Some windy pirate party from the left has bought the greens the water because you have become an old party. You're an old party that only makes red and black the wall. That's the truth! - So much to the greens. [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] The whole prognostics sitting there, the prognostics of red and black – what about those? The reds have already disappeared. Matznetter has already left the hall. - Ah, he's up there! He's been telling us things here for weeks and months, which is exactly the opposite. But he's still allowed to talk. In the case of a crane, you have already taken the consequence, you have already deleted it from the list of speakers, because it always crashes here at the speaker's desk. That's why you took him from the list of speakers so that it doesn't always happen. But the entire prognosis has not occurred. Where are the shops, Mrs Fekter? Where's the big deal we're doing with Greece now? Yes, believe Are you really serious that we still – at the present time – can only get a cent back? From a country that now wants to go the way to put 100,000 people on the street overnight, where chaos, anarchy, yes civil war is already pre-programmed? You want another cent from this country? - I think you're completely wrong. But these are the healing teachings of the European Union, which one must ultimately submit to. And that's what you do instead of making yourself up here and saying: Get out! Stop! No more! We end these payments! Enough paid! The Austrian taxpayer is no longer allowed to bleed! – That's your job, Mrs. Finanzminister! [[In the case of the BZÖ, as well as the members of the FPÖ.]] And that's what different parties tell you, we've been from BZÖ since 2010. As far as this question is concerned, the far-sightedness of the SPÖ Group is funny. Werner Faymann, this is the one who is flying hand in hand with fishermen – no, with spindlegger no longer hand in hand, but six rows behind it – to America and there he also skins taxpayers out to the window because he goes with Arnold Schwarzenegger “banking prints”. [[Reciprocity of the speaker]] I don't know what he's doing there, but he's flying to America. This Mr. Faymann also made forecasts in his incredible far-sightedness, for example on 24 March. March 2010, when the colleague Bucher already signed the scenario that is now taking place. Do you know what Mr Faymann said in the main committee at the time? Mr Faymann said he was not going to make any decisions – no decisions! – on any aid measures within the EU as regards Greece, because Greece is unlikely to apply. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at BZÖ.]] This is the economist Faymann and the far-sightedness of our Federal Chancellor. I think everything has been said about that. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, if you see the newspapers today, you can read: From October, living will be 400 € more expensive in Vienna, water by 30 percent, the garbage charges by 6 percent, the district heat from September, gas and electricity prices are rising almost daily, but again in October. Inflation is galloping towards 4 percent, officially – real 10 percent. The incomes of the Austrians are falling in real terms. [[Abg. Grosz: And Mr. Van der Bellen gets 210 000 €!]] And if you're wondering, What does this have to do with the whole discussion? – This has a lot to do with it, because this is precisely the reason why the Austrians have zero understanding that they are sending their money to Greece or are stuck in other Pleite States, rather than finally ensuring that the people are better here in Austria. That's your job. [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The word “salvation scenario”, which has been spirited by Europe over the past few months, is maiming! Replace it with – perhaps not with “ploit”, but what is so beautiful now in Germany? – ‘controlled insolvency’. You should remember this very carefully, because every normal economic operator would have already been charged with politics either because of misappropriation of taxpayers' money or because of negligent Krida. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kogler.]] I say to you, Mrs Minister, if you do not pull the emergency brake and finally leave, then you will have to vote for the word “insolvency” at the next election.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e14824	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Muttons. 5 minutes desired speaking time are set. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e14852	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Westenthaler, you remember: Carinthia would be insolvent without liability from other institutions. You remember the liabilities of up to €22 billion. Why? - Because you and I quote that your grandfathers from BZÖ Neue and BZÖ-Alt and FPÖ have financed “the high-lifter projects and election gifts”. So so much for economic competence. [[Abg. Dr. Strutz: nesters!]] Ladies and gentlemen, the situation in the euro area is undoubtedly serious. It is not only Greece's future, it is also the future of the euro and the European Union as a whole; nor can we forget how much our own future and our prosperity depend on our membership in the EU. The WIFO has calculated – and we have already discussed this here – that 20 000 jobs are created annually by the euro alone and prosperity increases by €2.5 billion. So if you want to give up the euro, if you want to weaken it, the Austrians are risking jobs. Political decision-makers are therefore rightly expected to pursue both a stabilising and a responsible policy. This also includes – and I would like to stress this here in particular, because this is always the case – the fact that Greece has to have an economic perspective again, that there has to be growth again and that the country is not only broken down. However, one of the most responsible policies is not to insure people. Let's take a look at the numbers: To date, Austria has made a total of €1.38 billion in loans for Greece. This has given us the Greek time to carry out the necessary reforms – and that is where we look very closely. The whole takes place with a duration of 7.5 years and an interest rate of 4 percent. So far as the facts of the previous Greek aid are concerned. [[call to the FPÖ.]] The next tranche of loans to Greece should, if possible, already be paid out via the Euro Protection Panel. This will further reduce our risk, and – in order to return to the facts – is guaranteed at present €2.7 billion. It is certainly a step in the right direction that we end bilateral aid for Greece and that further aid, as with Ireland and Portugal, should be dealt with via the umbrella. This is also evidenced by the situation in Ireland and Portugal. This shield has done a very good job, and these countries are on the best way to relinquish the help of other euro countries. It is therefore simply a mistake and uncertainty of the population when you throw everything into a pot, whether it is loans or guarantees or whether it is call capital. They calculate buttwisting sums that have nothing to do with reality. And I repeat: €1.38 billion in Greece so far, paying well, and €2.7 billion in guarantees. They call sums that simply do not correspond to the truth. But what I want to address is what Mr Van der Bellen said. It is true that there is still a need to discuss how these mechanisms will look closely when it comes to implementing the ESM. However, the policy of uncertainty can not only be found with regard to the figures of BZÖ and FPÖ, but also with regard to the question of the integration of the population, where you claim that the Treaty of Lisbon is being amended. So, first of all, the contract is not changed, that's the first deception. Secondly, you say that there would be far-reaching competences. I'll read to you what's actually there – I quote –: ‘Member States whose currency is the euro may set up a stability mechanism which shall be activated if this is indispensable in order to maintain the stability of the euro area as a whole. The granting of all the necessary financial assistance under the mechanism shall be subject to strict conditions.’; That's all, these are the two sentences, in which in reality only says that we are allowed to continue doing what was previously allowed. So stick to the facts! The Euro Protection Screen is in our own interest. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e14895	Mr Dr. Lopatka, former State Secretary. – Yes, this is the power of habit. Mr Dr Lopatka is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e14926	Madam President. Thank you for the kind welcome! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The politicians have their responsibilities and should not push them off when it becomes difficult. To make a referendum now would be exactly a shift of responsibility. This government, especially the Minister for Finance, is responsible, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Grosz: You don't believe that!]] [[Intrusions of the Abg. Petzner.]] Second: Of course, the European Union is in a very difficult situation, this is the biggest test since this European Union has existed. But in a difficult phase, a community becomes strong when it acts in solidarity and not when it drops weak. And Greece is in a weak position. Greece now needs this European solidarity; and I think it is right that this European Union – and I assume it – should have a future for those who have great problems to provide this help, and in this situation we are. But constantly talking about the pleite and the end of Greece is not at all helping the Greeks, but it is also not a contribution for the European Union to make in this respect only one millimeter. [[Abg. Petzner: The Schäuble does this!]] Mr Petzner, your position in the group, after you lose Members from meeting to meeting, I understand that you have a final vote. But these apocalyptic riders, who always send you out, are exactly the representatives who spread a negative mood. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The Vienna ÖVP!]] – Look, this is your mood that you take from the club, but with this mood you will not be able to infect the High House here, I tell you! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Follow-up calls from Deputies Ing. Westenthaler and Grosz.]] You have to spread the last row for you soon, because those who no longer belong to your club, I suppose, will have to find place back there, colleague Grosz. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haubner.]] [[Abg. Grosz: You won't even find an Obmann in Vienna! Sad!]] The situation is not simple, but it is also a fact that the Monetary Fund and those dealing with this matter day and night, as the representatives of the European Central Bank, the European Commission, continue to assume – Mr President, it has already said, of course, there is also a risk in every credit – that it can create Greece. That is why I ask you, also in the direction of the Freedom Party, to stick to the facts. Klubobmann Strache, “freely” cannot be called acting completely free of facts. But you did it. You said: 6 billion € have been flown towards Greece. [[Abg. Street: With the National Bank!]] - No, it's $1.38 billion. The second point: You have spoken of liabilities of €15 billion. Do you know what 15 billion euros are? – This is the framework, but a liability framework is not yet the liability. [[Abg. Long ago, with Portugal and Ireland!]] After God we have no liability of 15 billion € yet. So, if it is possible, I would also ask the liberal representatives to stick to the facts and not, Mr Klubobmann, simply to put completely free of facts on the negative emotion. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The Greeks have a hard time, that's right. I mean, what the Greek head of government had to present today, I hope this will once and for all be spared from an Austrian head of government, namely to tell people – pensioners, unemployed, young people – we have to cut you a lot in the next few years. [[Abg. Strache: If you continue to do so, it will come!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Graf.]] Hundreds of thousands of redundancies are threatened there in the public service. Why do I say that? – Because I also want to give you an understanding of this, as the Minister for Finance said, that we in Austria too must do everything we can to stick to this triple A, that we also need to do everything in Austria in order to implement the necessary reforms. [[Abg. Strache: It's been in danger for a long time! The Triple-A is already in danger!]] I am excited – because you say the danger is there – whether your support is there when it comes to the termination of special rights, for example in the case of pensions. They are demanding more and more in all areas. [[Abg. Street: Your own tasks will not be done!]] I have not heard a proposal from you yet to make a contribution that Austria remains with this triple-A. The Minister for Finance has said very clearly – we do not put it at risk, the opposite is the case, Mr Klubobmann Strache! [[Abg. Strache: You put it at stake!]] You will then hear from the budget debate that Austria is still very, very good on the road compared to the other EU-27. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: The citizens are always diligent, only politics fails!]] This is also a legacy of the black and blue government. Even if you put it down, we won't put it down. At that time, these framework conditions were created to ensure that Austria is so good in economic terms as well as in the labour market. Austria is in the leading field in Europe. This is our homework, which we have to fulfill, but the Greeks also have to carry out their homework, only their unevenly difficult. And there, I tell you, it's no help if we join them. It is only a help if we are in solidarity with the Greeks.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e15166	Mr Podgorschek is now speaking. I set the desired 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e15188	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Mr Lopatka, these 6 million – billions, sad enough! [[Abg. Grosz: billions!]] They are based on the fact that over the ECB we have already acquired 2% of bonds, and at the end of the day, 4 billion have also taken over OeNB in Greece's bonds, and they are inconceivable. - Just so much about your statement. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Strache: So much to the facts!]] Professor Van der Bellen has said that no reasonable economic professor would approve of a division of the euro, each of which is opposed to it. I only mention a very famous witness, Professor Hans-Werner Sinn, at least head of the ifo in Munich, who demands exactly what we say. And, Mr President, we certainly do not beat political change, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. We are only concerned about the future of our home country of Austria, and if this is called a ‘political little change’, then I have to say quite honestly, then we are not in place here as politicians. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bitch.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, if you do not believe us, at least believe your family friends from the Federal Republic. After all, Prime Minister Seehofer and Secretary General Dobrindt, both from the CSU, have already said that Greece is pleading and that Greece has to be led into the placid and that measures must therefore be taken. But also parts of the CDU are already so far that they can express this openly. The German Federal Bank President, Jens Weidmann, has also already agreed in a newspaper interview that a plate of Greece is unlikely to be left out. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kogler.]] Mr Klubobmann's head, you said in the early days that Greece is close to the pleite. So, that's all we can say, and that's all we say: Greece is in favour. [[Abg. Head: No, I didn't say that! “Nahe”! That's a difference!]] You said: Close to the pleite! And we say: [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] Greece is advocating because we are telling the people the truth. But I would very much like to deal with the ESM, because Mrs. Muttonen said that we are not giving up competences towards the EU and that everything is in vain. If I look at Article 10 of the ESM – with regard to the change in the basic capital – there is point 1: The Board of Governors may decide to change the basic capital and amend Article 8 accordingly. – Article 8 states that the share capital is €700 billion. That is, they do not have to ask any government at all if they say that we do not need 700, but 1 000 billion or 1,200 billion. That means that everything goes by the people, by the parliaments, by the governments. Article 27: Legal status of ESM, immunity and privileges. Point 2: The ESM shall have full legal and business capacity for the effort of court proceedings. Point 3: The ESM, its property, its financial resources and assets enjoy extensive judicial immunity. That is, if the rulers themselves are going to be in the pockets, we as parliaments or the governments do not have the slightest chance that they will still be able to counter it. Point 4: The property, financial resources and assets of the ESM are of access by searching, confiscation, inclusion, expropriation and any other form of possession by government action – listen, listen! – or liberated by way of court, administration or law. That is to say, we have immunized them forever and ever, which can operate and switch as they want, and the ESM eventually develops into a monster à la Soviet Union. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In Article 30, on the immunity of persons: The Board of Governors, Directors and Deputys and staff shall enjoy immunity from the jurisdiction in respect of their actions and inviolability of their official documents. That is, everything that happens there is done under the cover of silence. No, thank you! Good night! I can only say: Whoever agrees to this accession to the ESM or that, has already betrayed the future generations.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e15294	Now comes Mr Mag. Kogler. I'll put the clock on the whole 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e15315	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Enough paid? - Yeah, you can say. [[Abg. Kickl: Too much!]] But please, it is only right and just, of those who claim to also ask for an explanation, such as the further settlement of a alleged partial plea – I understand that; we do not even want to contradict it, we were among the first to find out, even in April and May 2010, that you can read that Greece is pleading, in the words “insolven” and not “illiquid” – how we are resolving the crisis that has now occurred. Whether it's such a big one, as always, is another question. But those who say: “Faith paid” would have a duty to explain how less money is paid in relation to all alternative scenarios. This is the minimum requirement, and I would call for it more strongly as the Federal Government, because it is being done here just as if the world would go down if Greece continued to be in a state of swing. So, you've got to go back to the dimensions before, I think. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: The world is not going down!]] And this is also against the background that, of course, one can happen – if we want to deal with it a little bit objectively for a second –: If everyone is always talking about the world going down because of an event that the world would not have to destroy, then there can actually be mechanisms that end up going down the stream more than it would be necessary. [[Calls of the Abg. Silhavy.]] These processes are known. We find ourselves – no one has to take advantage of it, because there are different approaches to content and ideology, so there are also different opinions – that, above all, the European Union, so to speak, the flickering of the states, who are still acting there, does not come to a uniform approach and that is also with a part of the problem. That is why there are several solutions and approaches. And one thing is sure: With a parole you can't analyze it, and with a single measure you can't clean it up. Everyone who claims this, colleague Bucher, is a charlatan. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Now it will be time that Redempt what you promise here! Explain to me how much less money can be paid! That wouldn't be so bad. I believe that some goals can be agreed soon, but one should not only think about the measures, but also make proposals. And it would also be nice if we took two or three hours in the National Council for this matter. This is our access! And by the way, ladies and gentlemen of BZÖ and FPÖ: How we will behave, we will not be prescribed by you! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Just betray your voters!]] But one thing can. You're sure: To act like you, namely, to say no to everything and to throw out the political power you should actually have from the window and simply to refuse from the beginning, so we will not be stupid, I say that to you! [[Demonstration of the Greens, as well as a condolences with representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You are offering your politics!]] We will at least try – and we have proved that often enough... [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: It already claps the ÖVP with!]] That may be possible in this house. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Sit over to the ÖVP to nap a little on the feed trough!]] We will at least try to reach out for negotiation solutions. That is another debate. We're not there yet. Let us come back to the urgent question, to the more or less Greek plea, and let us go through it again! If it is clear that Greece accounts for two percent of the euro area's economic performance, salopp, and the debt ratio is now at 150 percent, which clearly points to a pleite, to insolvency – that's no question! – but then that is still three percent of the economic performance. It's still a lot. But now, please, just hold on. Half may not be able to repay Greece, plus/minus. Then it's only one and a half percent. But it is not that this falls overnight from the ceiling, that can be organized and structured. If we take this once to ten years, we are at 0.15 percent of the annual economic performance in the euro area. And I'm asking you: Why is panic being created here if it doesn't have to be? Why? It's clear: It has to be organized! That is why, for a year and a half, we have been talking about the ordered debt of the state. Granted, it wasn't easy over the night. I would have been easier to imagine, and I've made it easier out here at the speaker's desk – you have to admit that – than it may be. But if we had already had an orderly decommissioning procedure with the new mechanisms, then we could have done what you demand if you thought so far at all – but that would be the most rational thing to push out from BZÖ and ÖVP. Don't make the ESM bad from the outset, because that's where it's planned for the first time! [[President Neugebauer shall take over the chairmanship.]] And also: You need to explain this inconsistency here! I hope that others will make themselves up here and say that simply with these cheap slogans, not only on a permanent and on average, but already today, there is no state to do. [[Abg. Strache: You should not be unconditionally bound to enter a contract from which you can no longer leave!]] There you can throw a lot of fog and then stick around, but there is no solution from it. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] As I said, There's no state to do with you! A few scandals have proved that. That's what you're doing, blue and orange. It says that behind every blue-orange dung you have to send five corruption lawyers behind – and in Carinthia there are ten per member of government! [[Abg. Podgorschek: Call me a blue!]] And by the way: We are probably going to introduce the “Wörthersee-Euro”, logically, because one thing is certain: According to Carinthia, more money has so far gone than to Greece, and we will certainly never see it again, because the Hypo Alpe-Adria has ruined you so far that this is no longer remedial – except with a billion extra tax money! [[Abg. That's a nonsense!]] We now hold at €2.5 billion. But that's just on the verge. So, as I said, 0.15% of economic performance per year. I now turn to you, Mrs Finanzminister, as representative of the Federal Government. Of course, we have different opinions on how we can do this. I have already said that no one needs to claim for himself to know exactly the 100%, but the consideration of the arguments and the resulting action must be justified. It's not always easy, it's clear. But one thing is certain, if we look at the package of measures for Greece: it cannot work that way! We also warned about that. Then: If one is already at the intensive care station – even if he has indebted himself to the accident, it is the question of what you do – and you doctor around the hoses in such a way that you tap blood on the one hand and stop the supply of vital means on the other hand, then may You don't wonder if it's even less touching than it is anyway. That's clear! But there may be a different economic philosophy behind it. But so much Keynesians don't have to be there to calculate what happens when you pull out so much money over the night, where the state apparatus is so inefficient and the state companies produce so many losses and where, in part, corruption is being carried out, which, of course, indicates self-debtedness. If you want to change everything overnight and pull the money out of the cycle, it is clear that, if not at the same time – and that is the point! – reasonable investment, which can only become worse. Minus 7 percent economic decline last year, if I remember correctly. Less 5 percent this year instead of minus 3 percent. It is clear that the quotas are moving even further. What does that mean? That means – and there is no way through it; Professor Van der Bellen has also said – that in Greece itself not only needs to be improved the conditions for investment, because it really does not have to endure the conditions there – we have often been excited about it – but it will also need accelerated investments. That costs something again, but at least something comes back, which promotes growth. Then they can pay back at least 50 percent, which then remain as debt. By the way, it will not do anything on its own if nothing else changes, because then we are standing there again at the galloping interest which they have to pay. And that we always do this in the long run with the rescue shield is not a solution either. It is therefore absolutely clear what the solution must be, and it costs something. But it's still much cheaper than this cheap talk you're holding here, ladies and gentlemen of the BZÖ! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] What does it cost? – First, it must be saved, even against the background that there are negative effects. But the structures belong to improved and made efficient. And you have to start with it now. We can't wait ten years! – Not so much Keynes at once! The second story: It must be invested, the conditions must be created. And when it comes to the question of where to save, it is also to be said: To date, it is not quite clear how much money the Greek budget is still pumped into the arms industry – but not into the Greek, which is known not to exist, but into the French and German arms industry. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] €70 billion has been spent over the last ten years, which is 35 times the Eurofighter purchase. Greece spent so much on the arms in ten years that it could have bought 600 Eurofighters. – That’s just to make the dimension clear! This money went to Germany and France. That means they financed this around the circle. These cycles are broken! This has to be done! And that's why it's about seeing this in a bigger perspective. We will not continue with this little spirit, for then it will be called: Quite a lot of money, although it would not be necessary!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e15514	Next speaker: Mr Windholz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e15535	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs Finanzminister! Mr State Secretary! High house! On the question: If Greece is pleading?, we have already received several answers today. On the statement: Greece is pleading!, Klubobmann has said head: No, no, Greece's not pleading, it's just close to the pleite! Yes, yes, I agree, that's a difference! – Mr Kogler of the Greens has explained to us that we are now talking about a partial plea. [[Abg. Head: That's a difference!]] This leads me now to look back at the introduction of the euro and ask the question: How did Greece come to the euro? And there must be no surprise that we are currently holding this debate in Greece, because Greece has managed to do so by means of turbid figures! The great mistake of the EU was already the establishment of criteria that allowed this. There was no procedure against someone operating with turbid numbers. So: Greece did it with turkled numbers! By the way, there was no requirement in the EU: What do you do with these criteria in one, two, five years? If you have the euro, that's the same thing – even with turkled numbers! Then we've heard, we have to explain ourselves in solidarity, and we have to pump in money. The reason was: A non-olidaric explanation, a non-injection pump is far more difficult for us. The then Minister of Finance has just said to us: All that the booker from the BZÖ says is not right, because this is not a risk, it will be a business for Austria! The Minister of Finance, now in office, has no longer talked about the big business, but she has explained to us that we have a primary surplus. It wasn't that long ago, it was on 15 May. June. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, we can say straight away: Grimm's fairy tale hour! None of this has happened – quite the contrary: The big question is – and this has already been announced by Bucher a long time ago: Are we going to lower our tax money for an action that will bring us zero? My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, there is a need to discuss: Is this way a wise one? Should we bring in this permanent lifeguard? I'll tell you: The population has not only mixed feelings, but also a clear attitude: The citizens want the tax money to be invested in Austria! We need to help the economy! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The Austrian taxpayers have been waiting so long for taxes to be reduced. That would make sense. This allows you to create jobs. But with this action, we minimize the scope. I'll tell you: We won't have any more room for play at all. And what you have experienced in Vienna after the election, namely the red-green handle in the pockets of the population, will be crushed down to Austria when these billions are reduced. My colleague, who I very much appreciate, has already made it a little different a few months ago, because he is already talking about a serious situation and a serious situation. And everyone who smiled at the Seppi Bucher should think about it if – I would like to say – the German Minister of Finance makes the same considerations. That's one thing... [[Abg. May. Kogler: He speaks of no withdrawal from monetary union! From the pleite!]] Of course, Mr Kogler of the Greens sees all this as different, because if it comes from the BZÖ, it must not be true. And of course, everything the German Minister of Finance says is not right. [[Abg. May. Kogler: He's not talking about the Euro exit!]] He's not talking about leaving the euro. So it was a mistake that can still be corrected. But you can enlarge this mistake if you like. There are now grueling words, and I can turn to former Secretary of State Lopatka. I have always regretted that he has left the Federal Government, for he was one of those who addressed problems, such as the privileges of the ÖBB. You have obviously been removed from the government to do a favor to the coalition partner. This is also the great difficulty that Greece and all the national states in the EU expect: Whenever reforms are required, there are unpopular measures, fear of defeats – but they are also present in democracy – and fear of a change of party! In addition, there was always a desire to reform from 2000 to 2006. Perhaps then a little shiny cast builder won a choice, because the voter has occasionally revanced. But these reforms were in truth the opportunity to create scope. But now you're wasting these rooms! I say this clearly and clearly to you. And if you're talking about a political responsibility that it's supposed to take, I'm saying, Yes, but we also have direct democracy! What prevents us from involving the people? [[BZÖ's condolences.]] You have to see that the Austrian population will not support this reduction of billions. Mr Secretary of State other than Lopatka: If you're always talking about the BZÖ being scared and we'd be afraid, I can tell you: We are not afraid of a capable federal government, but of a federal government which is obviously already capable of everything!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e15621	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Kuzdas. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e15643	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Kogler is quite right in his medical diagnosis, because what is going on in Greece is not just a complete brake on the economy, which, it must be said, has been forced on the people in Greece by the EU's representatives, but rather a real cutback. Last year alone, gross domestic product fell by a two-digit amount. We know what impact this has had on employment, unemployment and so on. It is clear that this does not increase government revenue. And the result is a bigger budget deficit and a reduction in the economy. Of course, the responsibility for this development is also – I say, too! – in the case of the troika, i.e. the IMF, the ECB and the Commission, because there will be no savings alone. [[Abg. Rädler: And not with the ruling socialists?- Oh, my God!]] The Socialists now have to bathe out what others have incubated. I would also like to make that clear. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What Greece needs, Mr Rädler, is an offensive package for growth and employment, in addition to the intelligent savings, in order to get out of the downward spiral. Greece needs new structures. This is about increasing competitiveness. First, you have to rebuild the economy, because it's on the belly. The Greeks don't even have so much money that they can pick up the billions from Brussels for co-financing. We also need to talk about this, whether there are any other rules to make them come to this money. In Austria, it would not be possible for one third of economic operators to pay no taxes, for example shipping. For this purpose, pensioners are asked to pay the cash. This is because the shipowners are threatening to let the ships go in another home port in front of anchor. The EU is also called on to move forward with tax harmonisation! How important it is for the economy and the people to be given money, this also shows, among other things, the Marshall Plan, which did not benefit us out of mere charity after the Second World War, but from economic considerations. The measures taken before the economic crisis and then with the tax reform were also important. In addition, in the last Committee on Budgets, Mrs Finanzminister has at least one positive aspect of the decisions of 24. September stresses that people have more money in their pocket. As I said, these measures were also crucial to the fact that we have come through the crisis well and that purchasing power has remained high. I also do not want to mention the offensive packages for infrastructure and thermal renovation decided here in the house, which supported and benefited the economy well. Without offensive measures, it will not work in Greece either. It takes structural improvement to bring the economy back in motion and to overcome the crisis. In this context, I would like to say: It is still not about the euro crisis, but primarily about the crisis of individual states, a crisis of the budgets of individual states, which are not yet comparable to one another, because the causes are completely different. Ireland, for example, has managed the banking crisis well and has a good and intact export economy. Portugal has done the homework and fulfils its obligations. Italy is only right not to compare with Greece because Italy has a good industrial base and does not have a current account deficit like Greece. But Italy needs a government that takes the matter seriously. When we look into the United States, we note: There are some states, such as California, Alabama, Texas, and God knows who are at least as indebted as Greece, but no one is there talking about the dollar crisis and no one is speculating against the dollar because the United States is different. In this context, one has to say: We need more and no less Europe to get through the crises in the future! Ladies and gentlemen, some politicians must also consider what they are doing and what they are saying, because the statement by the German Minister for Economic Affairs on the pleite of Greece has impressively shown that a single minister can mess up the markets enormously. Finally, I would also like to point out that some politicians are sluggish, because it is estimated that the delay in the first package of Greece's aid has played many billions in the hands of the speculators. That means that it would have failed to make a more rapid and coherent decision, even if that was not always easy. But now we are calling for Greece to be excluded from the euro area or to create a core Europe at two speeds or to separate hard and soft euro. I think this is like a lot of experts for an economic spirit course. If one were to exclude Greece from the euro zone – we have already discussed this in this House several times – and to reintroduce the drachma again, by 50, 60 percent, then the debt would become more because they clearly remained in euro. What would be the result? – A further decline in stock prices, the investors would deduct, and the economy continued to kneel. So: What Greece needs is not a cutback, but it is a proper tax morale, an offensive package for growth and employment and solidarity, as we have already received it at another time. I believe that those measures which the Greek Government has decided at today's special session in Parliament, imposed by the Troika, lead to mass unemployment, endanger social prosperity, intensify the crisis and, hopefully, do not lead to the total collapse of the economy. Ladies and gentlemen! The alternatives to the rescue shield, for example a pleite of Greece, would all be worse and more expensive – not for the Greeks, but for Austria! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e15703	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Schools. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e15725	Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen in the House! We owe this interesting discussion to the BZÖ today, and I also think we can understand why the BZÖ is particularly intensively ringing with this topic. Finally and finally you can understand the Greek dilemma: They have once started with 21 Members, then three have fled under another lifeguard, and two others are still open to the question of the system in which they will enter. [[Abg. Petzner: Ha, ha, ha!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: And with how much... did the ÖVP start? With how much?]] [[Abg. Petzner: From 42 to 20 percent!]] In any case, however, I see that the BZÖ knows exactly what it is like when it's bad for you. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Today's representation has somehow given the impression that you know how the Greeks might be if we don't help them. That the conclusion was then that it was not to help them, however, that escapes my logic, but that is not so important to me either. At any rate, I believe, it is clear and for all of us the subject of the discussion. We know that Greece will not be able to help itself by its own means. One is calling it so, and the other call it so, the fact is that this state in Greece is for all of us – for Europe, but also for us in Austria – a state that can become a very big problem that can cost us not only money but also the future. When we look at the Greek situation, we see that Greece urgently needs to take reform steps that have not been thought of for many years, but have been moved, worn away, sluggished, and these reforms, which are necessary in Greece, concern the performance of the public sector, the performance of the economy, issues of competition – quite simply questions of the functioning of a normal economy in the European context. You didn't do that. Greece has spent a lot of money, and then one has, probably, to say that one really has to say, numbers “fixed”. Now it turns out that the foreign payers are no longer coming, that the funds are no longer to be raised, that the loans are no longer to be financed, and now it turns out that there is a need for reform. And our question is actually only the: Can Greece put these reforms without pressure and help from outside, or will Greece come to terms faster if we develop and strengthen this pressure from outside and give the Greeks a future perspective for it, showing them that the effort is worth it at all? I think that happens in Europe, when the Troika in Greece calls things by name and in Greece forces changes, of which everyone knows that this must happen – but in political everyday life it is better to wait for the next day. The Troika is preventing this, and the decisions that are now being made can bring about the success of the project of financing Greece – I say, for there is nothing for sure. The reform steps are necessary and must be accompanied and demanded. That's what the Austrians demand of us. They do not require us to help Greece, but they demand that, if we help Greece, this project must in any case succeed. Therefore, it is a matter of looking very clearly at the need to comply with requirements. The reforming of the Greek economy towards a competitive economy will take years, that is not a question, and it is quite clear that the short-term decline of the economy is possible in the restructuring phase. Ladies and gentlemen, these are hard truths, and none of us have the right to look upon the Greeks arrogantly, not some of the speakers who have done particularly well today. At any rate, we owe it to today's discussion: A few insights have deepened. First: When it comes to it, the greens can also. Secondly, Hard truths are not spared, neither are we. Thirdly, Reforms that are necessary are not to be postponed, and there is also a lot to be done with us – I only mention the universities and the health sector, and I can only encourage the friends in the Bundesbahn to move on quickly. And we learned something else in the discussions of the last week. First: The euro is of great importance to us, and secondly: The euro stands – and there is no one who can only shake around it in some way, because the confidence that the euro is standing is the greatest protection against the fact that Europe does not hold together. The most important thing is determination on this issue. [[Abg. Petzner: You don't believe this anymore what you're talking about!]] This determination may still be lacking in European cooperation, but I find this determination to be always with our Mrs Finanzminister, and that is why Austria is on the right track. I can only encourage and strengthen them and thank them for doing so.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e15810	Next speaker: Mr Themessl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e15832	Mr President. Mrs Finanzminister! Mr State Secretary! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, Mrs Financier Minister, the Greek government thinks of helping their efforts obviously not much, for in the “Kronen Zeitung” it says: Greece's Finance Minister keeps anger against the EU and against the markets. – Obviously, he has not made the effort to look through the Internet or TW 1 in the Austrian Parliament or to hear your speech, how you really use all your power and violence for the Greeks. [[Mr Kopf and Mr Grosz.]] – Yes, yes, with regard to the solution of a problem, I give you absolutely right, one can be quite different. Mrs. Federal Minister, you thought two years ago that paying, paying, paying until you go is no longer the absolute best solution, and you have not heard of the critical ideas – not only of the opposition parties or of various parties across Europe – but also of the experts, the economic and financial experts, who have already warned two years ago that this is the wrong way. Now it doesn't seem bad if you say: Okay, I think that's the right way we're just paying. As long as the taxpayer gives some more button, we pay, that's the only right way. But what I blame you for is that you and this entire federal government have always said from the beginning, for two years, from the outset: There is no alternative. – There is an alternative in every problem! But you have to think about it and at least deal with it! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And now you have the problem that time is running out of you. You didn't think of an alternative for the whole two years. Two years ago, we took the word pleite into the mouth only in connection with the fact that we said: If we do not initiate an orderly démocratisation procedure or a reorganisation procedure with Greece, then that will end in the pleite. In the meantime, other states have responded very well and have been concerned about how this looks when the Greeks really argue. You haven't done this and are now facing the situation that you probably need some scenario within a few days or weeks, so maybe we can get away with a blue eye or two blue eyes half-way. And now to your statements: They say that not only the money we have pumped into Greece is gone – that is clear; the liabilities are also falling, that is clear – and you have also mentioned that the economy, namely the Austrian economy, will suffer very much. And now I'm asking you: What do you mean by the Austrian economy? I don't know if you know the trade balance with Greece. I'll tell you: Once you clear the banks out of your economic performance – and you are just talking about the banks – the Austrian trade balance with Greece from 2009 was such that we imported around €580 million of goods – not billions, millions! – and by saying and writing 140 million € have exported goods. What you understand by economic performance are mostly banks, money products from donors that you have saved with it. And I did not tell you for the first time today, I told you months ago that there has to be another solution, because it is not at all different, and that will give me every economic and financial expert and tell you the same thing. We knew years ago that the Greek economy is weakening, and it is very weak. One should have used the first tranche a year and a half ago to stabilise the economy. This would have made it possible for jobs to be secured, it would have been possible for the domestic market not to break down, and it would have been possible for exports not to break down. How do you expect a country that has permanently had a negative economic performance for three years to repay debt? In this year a forecast economic performance of minus 5 percent is predicted! With minus 5 percent economic performance, the Greeks are not able to pay their own debts, let alone in addition to serving those they have added over the last one and a half years. Farewell Finally, you are from this idea, there is a permanent need to feed the financial markets below! You should have kept the financial markets waiting – you must now anyway, and probably you should write down everything you pumped down there anyway – because it would have achieved that at least economic performance did not break down, and you could have prevented the social unrest for the most part, because not so many people would have gone to the streets if they had kept their job. Domestic performance would not have broken down, even the domestic market. You rejected all of this! You didn't believe any economic experts, nothing at all! And you're in the middle of it all the time. They say: This has consequences. – Then you are asked: Yes, what consequences does that have? – Then you are addressed to the situation in Italy, Spain and, and, what you say: This is not a problem, the Italians have chained a savings package. They have their problems under control. - So it can't be. So, that means you're gnawing fears in the population now and saying: If we let the Greeks go, we expect us to pay 40 billion euros or more. And when it comes to that – and that will be the case in Bälde, because you have not developed a counter-strategy – you go here and say: Yeah, but it only cost us €30 billion under the line. – Do you know how much money this is? And then you go here and say, We can only help the Greeks if the EU or the euro area is united in itself. - I don't know where you've been in the last few weeks. You already know that the Finns are saying that the Slovaks are not participating in the fact that the Czechs no longer want the euro to withdraw from a treaty, that the Poles are very skeptical. Yeah, I don't know where you're going?- Oh, my God! I don't know, are you just on the way with Chancellor Merkel or not? And then another word to Mr Matznetter. I don't know. Did he not hear the speech of red colleague Gabriel in Germany? - If he didn't hear them, I'd give him advice: He can write the speech of Mr Bucher, because it is half taken over from there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e15926	Next speaker: Mr Petzner. Time left: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e15958	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! I have to reject this school mastery, which always occurs here. We are discussing here, this is the task of Parliament. There are two directions to go. One can go in the direction of the Minister for Finance, the direction of the EU's bosses, the direction of the government parties who say: We pay without end, somehow the Greeks are going to gobble through! Although it has not worked so far and one has clearly failed with this plan, we still pay further in! It's gonna work someday, one day. - That's your way. Our path is another, that of saying the following – and it is a pleasure that this opinion, if you look beyond the borders of Austria, will become a majority in the meantime –: Instead of paying more and more and taking a course that has not proved successful so far, it is wiser to initiate an orderly insolvency of Greece to help us help the euro area to save the euro and also to help the Greeks, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Head: Where we don't have the instrumentarium?- Oh, my God!]] That is why we are also dealing with this question. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The following figures are to be found as crazy as this plan by SPÖ, ÖVP and the EU's bosses. The Euro Rescue Screen is also being discussed today. As the fifth richest country in the world, Austria is paying €2.2 billion in cash deposits and € 17.3 billion in guarantees, and it is intended to help Greece. But now the question is: How much is Greece paying for the insolvency of Greece? How much is Greece supposed to pay in this euro save screen? – According to the plans of the EU bosses, Greece – in any case already on the abyss – should pay more than we Austrians, i.e. € 17.5 billion in guarantees and cash payments of € 2.3 billion! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bucher.]] How is this going to work, ladies and gentlemen? – This plan is condemned to failure, and I can only urge you to end this mistake in the interest of taxpayers and draw a conclusion – with the Bucher plan, as we have also presented it. [[OBJECTIVES]] This is a code that should actually be a warning. The Court of Auditors warned only a few days ago and pointed out that 40 percent of the total expenditure of the Austrian government budget goes alone for pensions and interest rates. 40 percent! This number is really shocking! In this context, you cannot answer the question seriously – if we are discussing at an early stage today that the universities need more money – how this should work, how it should be done under the heading, and where this famous business is for the taxpayer, who has also been spoken of by Mr. Ex-Finanzminister Pröll. I don't see this business, but I see a big fiasco coming on us, including the Austrian taxpayer, if we don't say now – according to the motto: “Genuinely paid!” –, this debt is to end and for Greece, an orderly scenario is to be developed, as I have just outlined. This is the only right way that is possible and sensible at the present stage. We are pleased that there is more support for this route, especially on the part of the FPÖ, because I can already recall one thing: What Mr Strache has already demanded! He is like the editor of the newspaper “Austria”. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] He also writes everything sometime to be able to say: I've always said that anyway! Mr. Strache has already said: We want to get out of the euro. – Now it is for a core Europe with a North Euro – our model. [[Call the FPÖ:Go, go, go!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] Mr Strache has also called for the reintroduction of Schilling. Then he insisted that this was a nonsense, so he also joined the BZÖ line with the introduction of a North and South Euro. [[Abg. May. Stefan: I would like to join you so much because you are so well done!]] That means Mr. Strache can do a lot. He can also shout out loud – only from the euro, from the economy and from finance he really has no idea, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e16050	Next speaker: Mrs Silhavy. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e16071	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! In principle, all Members who have been elected to the National Council assume that they want the best for the people in Austria – with different approaches and different accesses. However, with today’s urgent BZÖ, this “best” has remained closed to me. Undisputed, ladies and gentlemen, is that the situation in the euro zone is serious – I think it is too serious to operate cheap polemics. Christoph Matznetter has already pointed out the interdependence of financial markets in his contribution, and the example of Lehman Brothers shows that the effects up to the global financial crisis have been completely underestimated. In addition to the fact that we have managed the financial crisis well in Austria, not least the stability of the social state has made a significant contribution. That is why I am saying this because – the Federal Minister has also mentioned it – we had a decline in exports at this time, but through the maintenance of purchasing power of the population we were able to cope with the crisis properly. Now to the EFSF and the problems of individual countries in the euro zone: The EFSF as a protective shield serves as a transitional scheme in order to address just uncontrolled consequences of destabilisation, and we will be part of these compensation schemes in the ESM, I hope that we will decide by a large majority in this House. Mrs. Federal Minister Fekter, but with all the need for a consolidation path, Greece must also have the opportunity to set economic impulses, otherwise I see all our joint efforts ineffectively – and that is why I have also addressed the issue of “domestic purchasing power”. Nor can it be that we pay in the euro zone for some to enrich, for example, Greek privatisations, Mrs Minister! But also the question of tax and capital flight must not only be left to the Greeks, but we must finally position ourselves in Europe. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Donnerbauer.]] Mrs. Federal Minister! With all the control functions of the troika, we must really insist that the Greeks can also decide on growth-enhancing measures. Now again to the applicants: In the “Financial Times Germany” one writes under the title “The Risky Play with the State Pleite”: "For example, there is a risk of a breach of other countries such as Portugal or in the worst case of Italy – if the markets believe that a debt ratio would be possible there too. Economists fear then the final escalation of the debt crisis, as Italy would no longer be able to support the EU." You should also read this, ladies and gentlemen, of the BZÖ. And how sensitive – yes, you could say: hectic – to react to the financial markets, we have noticed in our own house. I believe that Mr Kogler did not expect the Greens' behaviour in the Financial Committee to invigorate the stock exchanges in the short term, I say, in the negative sense, or irritate them. [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: Irrigate!]] Exactly, that's perhaps the more correct expression. Mr Themessl has quoted the “Kronen Zeitung”, but he has just quoted the title, and I think that is essential: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Höbart]] Mass redundancies of officials, reductions in pensions and salaries, reductions in unemployment benefits and so on. These are not measures that strengthen domestic purchasing power. Mr Kogler has already pointed out quite in detail how important growth is if the Greeks are to cope with this situation. But, Mr Themessl, it is also inside: Alert in Rome and Lisbon. – So if you are already using the “Kronen Zeitung”, I would not argue with panicing from our side, but if you are already starting to quote from the “Kronen Zeitung”, you should also quote everything. It raises the question of what you really want from BZÖ and FPÖ with this policy, except to strengthen the uncertainty of people. Do you want to go ahead with people, there would be a future without Euro for us in Austria? What do you mean by the misinformation? Ladies and gentlemen! A policy of panic-making does not help democracy or the Austrians. Constructive suggestions are missing from you. The Euro Protection Screen is not only in the interests of the Greeks, but also in the interests of the Austrians. You should finally accept this and take note of it.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e16151	Next speaker: Mrs Tamandl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e16173	Mr President. Mrs Finanzminister! Ladies and gentlemen! If the thing that matters today isn't as serious, you'd have to make fun of the way you're openly fighting your brother's war here: BZÖ against FPÖ. And it's quite simple... – Mr. Grosz! [[Abg. Grosz: You need to know about the Vienna ÖVP!]] I don't know what to compare. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Amon.]] [[Abg. Grosz: The so-called woman of the Vienna ÖVP!]] As a member of a community, I must say quite honestly to you, one must also behave in solidarity with its Member States. [[Abg. Grosz: The ruins woman of the Vienna ÖVP!]] – I listened to you, and I listened carefully to you, and maybe you can listen to me. If you want to hear a situation report about the Vienna ÖVP, you can talk to me afterwards in the couloir about it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Grosz: But at the cemetery, or where? You're a female pomp!]] As a member of a Community – and this is the European Union and monetary union as well – one simply has to be solidarity. I believe that, like all other Member States, we need to ensure that the euro remains a stable currency for our Austrian economy, but of course also for our jobs that our Austrian economy creates. In fact, it does not bring us any further if we are now bringing about a pleite scenario by having discussions where we are still strengthening what rating agencies say about Greece, Italy and cetera. I think that, as politicians here in the High House and in Austria, we have a responsibility to ensure that the euro, and thus also our competitiveness, remains within the European Union towards other economic markets and develops further. Of course, it's easy to say: Enough paid!, et cetera, but quite honestly: What would we have if the Greeks didn't get anything from us now or if we were to say that the Greeks should insist, it doesn't matter to us? If we assume that we have an external trade ratio of 60 percent, then it is not that each item goes to Greece the same way. Mr. Themessl! The trade balance is one, but not every part that is exported from Austria to another country and then goes to Greece is a direct trade. But that's something that weakens our companies, and we don't want it! We take responsibility. One can be of different opinion on the measures that the Greeks now have to take. It may be different whether it is necessary for pensions to be reduced. It may be different whether it is necessary for so many officials to be released suddenly. But on one point I believe that we are all in the same position: The Greeks must ensure compliance with their tax laws and the collection of taxes. I believe that it will be necessary for the Member States to make their expertise available to Greece. We know exactly how important anti-fraud laws are, how important the work of the financial police is, how important it is to impose taxes, and how important it is to... [[Abg. Kickl: Send the rhinestone!]] I do not know what Mr Strasser has to look for again, Mr Kickl. Please, take a look at the matter, and talk about it! Get out of here and talk about it! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: He might be Vienna Obmann!]] I believe that we as politicians should be serious about this, and we should also support Greece within the European Union – and any other country that is in trouble. We have a debt crisis in the European Union. The Minister for Finance said so. We ourselves owe more than 70 percent. And I think if we take responsibility, we also need to develop visions: How can we bear this responsibility in this debt crisis? – Mrs. Finanzminister and Mr. Vice-Chancellor have proposed to fix a debt brake in the Constitution, with a 60 percent ceiling by 2020. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: We suggested that! Two years ago, the BZÖ proposed this!]] We have a modern budgetary law. We have now dealt with a crisis. Austria has managed the crisis well because we have taken many measures. And now this debt brake in the Constitution is an important signal. That is what we are going to do, and we will see, Mr Westenthaler, whether the BZÖ will vote if the government proposal is on the table. I think it's much easier to roar out populist slogans in the opposition and say that it's all not, it's paid enough, that's all bad. But we take responsibility. And that distinguishes you from the greens who want to take responsibility in this difficult situation, and that is good.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e16312	Next speaker: Mr Zanger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e16333	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Tamandl, you and your colleagues from the ÖVP repeatedly welcome the solidarity, solidarity with Europe, with the Greeks in this case. I tell you, you have been elected by the Austrian people to this Parliament, and the first solidarity you have to practice is that to the Austrian citizen! [[Complaints and bravaders at the FPÖ.]] ==References== In June 2010, the then Finance Minister Pröll launched the beginning of the end, namely the beginning of the end of twenty billion Austrian tax money by signing the agreement for the EFSF at that time. ==References== In June 2011, Mrs Fekter continued this “successful” path by deciding that the total guarantee volume should be increased to around € 780 billion. Of this, 21 billion euros are spent on Austria. This sum is of a fundamental and all-Austrian importance, which is why we believe, of course, that the people have to speak and decide on. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We believe that this question of a People's Survey and then, if so, a referendum must be brought in. That is why we are proposing the following resolution: ‘The Federal Government is invited to submit to the National Council, pursuant to Article 49b B-VG, a request concerning the holding of a public survey on the takeover of liabilities of € 21 billion by means of the ‘European Financial Stability Facility’ for decision-making.’ The pleite of Greece is no longer a taboo. Even though last week OeNB Governor Novotny said in the Financial Committee that it is not possible to express negative opinions, because then everything is really that way, I am firmly convinced, that has already happened. If you are dealing with companies in the banking sector, with corporate loans, then you have to think about whether you are paying good money, that is the saver, bad money for the borrowers. These decisions are not always easy. There is much to be considered. Nevertheless, it is sometimes necessary to draw a rigorous conclusion, and this is also quite regulated: That is bankruptcy or compensation. It's just the question at which time and how much loss you want to get. I am convinced that Greece will not go down if we set up bankruptcy or compensation here. Not at all! No island will sink, the acropolis will not collapse. There you can quietly question the oracle of Delphi if you find it. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I am not alone with this opinion, more and more economists, that has already been addressed today, there are on my side. The Chief Executive Officer of the Dutch Rabobank, Bert Bruggink, says: It is no longer the question whether, but when Greece is pleading. The debt burden of the Greeks is far too high. Up to 50 percent of their debts were due to the Greeks, says Bruggink. The Dutch Minister of Finance admits that he has already done all the scenarios. The Germans – which has already been addressed today – are also. It is now the question of how to send Greece to the pleite: Does it remain in the euro zone or does Greece withdraw from monetary union? Both have advantages and disadvantages. Unfortunately, because of my low remaining time I can't do this anymore, I would have liked to have done so. But my opinion is: We do not agree to introduce a regulated pleasure here. It is in the sense of the Austrian taxpayer. You just need to look at what is happening here, how much the Austrians are pulled out of the bag. You have lowered the income of the Austrians by setting the 13th. In the case of children's benefit, the benefit of children's allowance is reduced. You've taken the single-earner discount amount away from the pensioner. That's a lot of euros a year. It gallops inflation from it – and not only towards 4 percent, the felt inflation among people is much higher, and that is also the actual one. If you drive to the gas station and look at the spray prices, you will be very black in front of your eyes. Ladies and gentlemen! We have to look at Austria and its taxpayers and not the Greeks!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e16420	The motion for a resolution tabled is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e16469	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Lugar. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e16490	Mr President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! For many, it is a great surprise that Greece is in trouble. If you look at history a little bit, the last 200 years, it must be noted that Greece has been in payment difficulties for almost 100 years in the last 200 years. After the Second World War, Greece was virtually permanently pleaded. Now Greece has been left in the euro zone. I wonder what drove us there. They have been left in the euro zone, have accepted that they have freezed their balance sheets accordingly, and have already known since 2006. In 2006, it was known that not only the convergence criteria will not be met. No, you knew that wrong figures are being delivered and that Greece is on the way to the pleite. This has already been known in the Commission in 2006! And what did you do? - You didn't do anything. You just put your head in the sand and hoped that this cup would pass over to us. Just, why did you hope that? From history we know that Greece has a lot of experience with the pleite. It is almost part of the Greek culture to be pleaded. Now we have granted Greece that there is a mountain of debt that is greater than the Olympic one, and we are now wondering that the Greeks cannot dismantle this mountain of debt. What would have happened if we had let them go, just as they were x-fold in the past, just as many other countries were x-fold? We all know that over the last 30 years, 30 countries have argued. We'll get rid of that. There are such superstars as Russia, twice pleading, Brazil and many other countries that are now successful. That means that the pleite is primarily a problem for the creditors and not for the country. There have even been wars in the past. If countries have previously stopped their payments, creditors have started a war to remind them that they still have something to pay. Do you think that the Germans and the French would have marched into Greece, would the Greeks have stopped their payments, as in the past, as in history already x-fold? - Not at all! That is, the creditors paid, and the creditors were still the banks at the time. And that's what it said: For God's sake, the banks are paying again! Banks have already extorted politics in 2008. And if that worked well in 2008, why not 2010 too? Thus, the banks have gone to the politicians, especially the German and French, and have said: Dear friends! If Greece is pleading, which is inevitable – everyone now sees – then we have to get into the cash register, then it will be expensive for us. And then the banks ordered a loss prevention package from the politicians. The banks have ordered it, the politicians have delivered it, and we will pay it, we citizens. And it works the same way. At the time, Greece had over €300 billion in debt. Of these, about 50 percent would have been hit. That would be about €150 billion. If I look at Deutsche Bank alone making €10 billion in profits this year, €10 billion in a year, only Deutsche Bank, I can tell you – and many experts will tell you – that the banks would have survived. And if there were some banks that wouldn't have succeeded, we could still have saved them. But not Greece on its own and its destruction on us, and ultimately it is going to go down with Greece! But it's not just the banks that benefit from the whole thing. They're politicians, too. The politicians also benefit from those politicians who have put the world religion to debt making on their flags. Unfortunately, there are very, very many politicians who consider debt to be fetish and do this over and over again and again. I spoke to Mr Sallmutter ten years ago; I don't know if anyone else knows it. That was a high union officer of SPÖ at the time. And Mr. Sallmutter still claimed at that time that he was not sure whether the sovereign debt should ever be repaid. Today we know they have to be paid back. And if you can't do that, you just have to go to the pleite, with all the consequences that result from it. We have heard today that the opposition – and I count on it – is not responsible. That's where I wonder who's not responsible. The Greeks now have 350 billion euros in debt. At the same time, the Greeks have brought their money abroad, which is €300 billion. You have to imagine that! This number's not from me. This number comes from a Greek parliamentarian who was here in Austria and gave an interview. He said he has information that is slumbering 300 billion euros of Greek assets abroad. Not all legal money. Now I'm wondering, If the Greeks argue that they have a total of €350 billion and have €300 billion abroad, why don't they access this money? I can tell you why they don't. Because we're up for that. Why should they? Why should the Greeks get into their own pocket when we pay the bills? That doesn't make sense. And that's the problem. That is, as long as we send money here, the Greeks will not touch a finger to help themselves out of the crisis. We should have really benefited from the experiences of the Greeks with the pleite, and they have a lot of experience there. They'd have done this already. The Greeks would have pulled themselves out of the mud cell in one way or another, just as they have done in the past. And the euro would not have harmed it if it had been useful to the euro. Now it looks different. Now the ECB has become itself, now the states have joined, all have chained themselves to Greece. We continue to transfer money down, the debt mountain is getting higher and higher, and now we hope that the Greeks will eventually settle these debts. Just how does that work? At first, the Greeks had problems because they suddenly had to pay 6, 7, 8 percent. Then we reduced their interest rate to 5 percent, later to 4 percent. Now, therefore, the Minister of Agriculture is coming and saying: It must be 0 percent! That is, we finance the Greeks' debts, we also pay the interest rates, we put our money on top of it, on their Giant Mountain, they make about €20 billion of new debts this year – and we hope that they will eventually repay it. How's that going? Look at the story! There's a very good book about it. That is, “This time is everything else. ” There are 800 years of financial disasters. It's inside, there's no land that's only nearly as heavy in Bredouille as the Greeks, it's ever made out of its own power, without a balance or without a pleite. That is, everything we are ordering, all the economic recovery programmes that are in the room here, all the savings measures, all of which will ultimately not work. And that's exactly the point. The Minister welcomed the fact that we are only paying 2.5 percent interest. I can tell you one thing: With what you're doing here, you're chaining to an underrun. This will increase our interest rates, even if Austria is at risk, and that will soon be the case. Austria will soon be at risk, then our interest rates will also rise – and then we lack the margin. On the horizon there are already dark economic clouds, and we are standing with completely worn pants. We have no room to do anything for our economy when it's going on – and I can guarantee you, it's going on very soon, very soon the second wave of the crisis comes, and then we'd love to look out of the laundry, because this government has failed to make the appropriate reserves on the one hand, and has chained us to Greece on the second side, which will cost us billions, and then, if we need money, we'll tear ourselves into the abyss. Listen It is therefore based on the principle that: The banks order it, the politicians deliver and the people pay. That's not supposed to go on! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e16584	No one is reporting on this. I'll close the debate. We come to the votes. Debates of the European Parliament People's vote now! Enough paid for EU Member States, banks and speculators! I would like to ask the honourable Members who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to sign it. – The request is rejected. vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Strache, fellow Members, on the conduct of a People's Survey on the acquisition by the EFSF of 21 billion euros by the Republic of Austria. [[Abg. Riepl: Strache is not here!]] [[Call at SPÖ:Where is the applicant?]] [[Abg. Riepl: Shouldn't we wait until he comes?]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] If we support this motion for a resolution, I would ask for a sign of approval. – The request is rejected. [[18:02:34]] Short debate on a deadline request
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e16659	We are now coming to a brief debate, which concerns the request made by Mr Krainer, Dr. Stummvoll, colleagues, to the Financial Committee for Reporting on the Federal Law amending the Balance of Payments Act, a period of up to 27. ==References== After the end of this debate, the vote will take place on the proposed deadline. We are going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that no speaker may speak for more than 5 minutes, the first speaker for reasons of 10 minutes. Statements by members of the Federal Government or by State Secretary-General shall not take more than 10 minutes. Mr Krainer came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e16689	Mr President. The deadline application concerns the Balance of Payments Stabilisation Act, which is the legal basis and commitment of Austria within the framework of the European Union, within the framework of the Euro Group, that Austria also participates in the extension of the Rescue Screen, the EFSF, in solidarity. We from the Social Democratic Party support this bill. But not because we think it is particularly great to bring as much money as possible somewhere, but because we are convinced that this rescue shield, and at all measures to save and support solidarity from other countries in Europe – whether Portugal, Ireland, Greece or Austria – is better, even for Austria, than uncontrolled, destabilising scenarios, as some of them suggest here. We are not saying that what is happening here is alternativesless. No, no, there are always alternatives, but we believe that the alternatives, which are also partially proposed here, would at least be much worse for Austria. In the previous debate, Mr Matznetter has set the example of Lehman Brothers, which shows the effects of bankruptcy – from banks, sometimes from states as well. The Asia crisis has shown us how one country after another was infected and what financial and social costs it has caused, and has taught us that it is much better to get out of the crisis in a stable way and to work in solidarity. What I am also criticizing is that we have not yet talked much about the causes of the crisis. There are some who believe that the debt has caused the crisis, but forget that at the beginning the financial crisis was the one that then led to the increased debt of the states. That is, some confuse cause and effect. And for the financial crisis, there were a number of causes, you can't do that with a cause. In any event, I believe that one of the insignificant points is the uneven distribution of assets and income in the societies that have led to a destabilisation of society and also to destabilisation of the financial markets and the financial system. In addition, ideologies such as: Private is better than state – so you have to privatize everything – markets know everything better, markets are always the most efficient – so everything had to be deregulated. It turned out, however, that many of these steps that were taken there were misleading. And one of the key points is this uneven distribution of wealth and income, where a very small group of a society has a lot of wealth, a lot of wealth, but the large majority – 90, 95 percent – have no or no significant assets at all. And this small group, which has most of the assets, operates much more risky and thus destabilises the whole system much more. This in conjunction with a number of other things I think is an essential point. We already had similar phases in the history of our economic system, we think of the 1920s, the great economic crisis that was also the result of the US. Even then, there were huge inequalities in society in terms of wealth and income. The policy that followed in the 1930s has set out exactly where to make society more equal. Franklin D. Roosevelt has, in particular, contributed to a much more balanced society through the tax side, within a generation. I think we need to run similar policies internationally at the moment. That is why the five-point programme for justice, which Werner Faymann has now presented, is absolutely right. We must take a very concrete look at how wealth can be contributed to finance this crisis in order to stabilise our society and make it more crisis-proof for the future. One point that I really have to criticise is the focus on debt, the way in which we are currently dealing with it in Europe. As a social democrat, one knows that public debt is bad, because of course they weaken the state. And every social democrat, to whom the social state is important, is a strong state and not a weak state – that is why the natural enemy of the social democratic debt is. [[Abg. It's such a fool!]] That is why we are in favour of ensuring that we maintain the financing capacity of the State and that the debt remains reasonable and is reduced and the budgets are balanced. But what the pure focus on debt and the total out-of-eight loss of other very essential economic factors, such as unemployment, employment, growth, are now seen in Greece, is seen in the way Greece is supposed to deal with its deficit – dictated by the troika. Greece is intended to save, save, save, ignore unemployment, ignore economic growth, which, however, causes it to fall into a vicious circle, as GDP declines, which automatically increases debt, thereby automatically increasing the deficit – and there are hardly any significant measures for growth and employment. I believe that the 3-percent deficit is correct, but why is there not a 3-percent unemployment limit in the European Union? Why is the question of employment and unemployment not at least as important as the debt limit in the light of policy? The debt limit is important, but there are many other points that are equally important, including the question of employment and unemployment. What can you do? – There are a number of proposals on how to increase employment, whose implementation can also be considered in Austria. More employment can also be achieved by increasing growth. A proposal is the extension of the social state. There are a number of social services that society needs. I am thinking of childcare and care, which are very labour-intensive. And we know that we need to expand the social state in these areas. We also see this as quite offensively an employment measure and say quite specifically that we can create a number of high-quality, secure jobs that enable a very high level of value for society and that our society needs, which our families, our citizens, our old people and children need. The second proposal is on education. The longer someone is in education, the later he comes to the labour market. This means, of course, that we can also relieve the labour market. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stefan.]] In other words, if the training period lasts for one or two years, it has a positive effect in a double sense: Firstly, through these two years we have a discharge of the labour market, and secondly, we have more productive participants in the labour market. A third variant is a reduction in working time. There are intelligent forms of reduction of working time. History also shows that these, of course, lead to higher employment, that they, of course, distribute the work more justly in a society. We must therefore really think very specifically about how we can ensure more employment. I've now mentioned three variants. In order to come back to the Balance of Payments Stabilisation Act: It is extremely important – I stress this – to pay attention to debt, to ensure that the budgets are as balanced as possible and that a state has as few debts as possible. But that's not the only number that matters, there are many more important numbers.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e16743	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Stummvoll. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e16764	Mr President. Minister! Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In contrast to my previous speaker, I have really only spoken on account of the deadline. We therefore need to set deadlines because the Balance of Payments Stabilisation Act was not yet allocated when we had the final meeting of the Financial Committee. An extension of the agenda required a two-thirds majority, but we did not have it because, from his point of view, Mr Kogler meant that he still lacked some information from a letter from the Chancellor. This deadline request is also because we want to comply with the commitment at European level, according to which Member States will implement the appropriate national measures by the end of September in order to extend this liability shield to actual €440 billion. That is the reason for setting deadlines, otherwise nothing at all. Not a dangerous threat to the opposition, but a very objective contribution. I would just like to say one thing to my previous speaker, Krainer: I now know, Mr Krainer, why some have made the call “Professor Krainer!”: Because your theory that the global financial crisis was triggered by social injustice is undoubtedly noble price suspect. I congratulate you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e16807	Next speaker: Mr Podgorschek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e16828	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! I could now of course continue the discussion from before, but I believe that the arguments have already been exchanged quite in detail, but I would like to mention a few aspects. The SPÖ is now, I believe, even in a populism trap. Let us follow the political events of recent times: For example, Federal Chancellor Faymann calls for a referendum on the abolition of compulsory military service. It calls for a referendum on whether a wealth or wealth tax is to be introduced. Together with the “Kronen Zeitung”, he has announced that, of course, a referendum should be held in the event of essential changes to the Lisbon Treaty. I wonder, Is the enlargement of the euro protection not essential if billions are to be held? – But please, the SPÖ has to deal with itself or perhaps with the “Kronen Zeitung”. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The second thing I do not understand in this deadline proposal is why this has to be done now. For my part, the suspicion is that we have to be so fast that we can show the Slovaks what good model students of the EU we are that we have everything under the roof and the specialist so that the Slovaks do not trust to vote against this EFSF. We are unfortunately – and I have to say this again and again – the model student of the European Union. But I'll tell you one thing: Expected Don't thank me! Neither thanks to the Austrian population nor to the EU, because the money we send there or with which we are liable is faster away than we believe. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The interesting thing is that even in Greece, a referendum on the exit from the euro is already being discussed. These are not brains that have been created here in Austria, but even the Greeks are already thinking about it. It is so far that in Greece even tax rulings are publicly burned. I assume – and take my word: In Greece, there will be – in fact, there have long been – civil war-like conditions. This will not change the new lifeguard either. So far, I can only say one thing: None of the forecasts you have made about the Greek drama – and this is a drama! –, has entered so far, but at the end of the day always what we have said. Why should this change change now? I mean, it's not a hurry, it's no urgency.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e16886	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e16910	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! It is really the rare opportunity to discuss a proposal for a deadline for its original intention, so to speak, in the procedural procedure. After all the events I would like to address separately, because some of us were also involved, it is right to set this deadline. At the time, I myself said in this committee and in the consequence that I would, if necessary, make a deadline request myself to enable the debate and decision-making of the EFSF – to be made possible! – Actually, I have to correct myself, the balance of payments stabilisation law and thus the liability requirement for the EFSF. Why? – Whether you are for or against this contract, it must be clear that the governments, in this case the Euro-17, must have the opportunity to agree on something, otherwise we will block the shop immediately. Otherwise we would have to say that we are no longer doing monetary union at all, but then there is no northern and southern euro, but then there is no more euro if it is not possible for the states of the euro area to agree on a roadmap – well-noticed: on a roadmap! One thing is also clear – with all due regard to parliamentarianism, which our group and I in particular cannot agree on –: It is not a question of the parliaments, at least not alone, or of 183 Members here, of 500, 600, 700 there, of 200 over there and so on, of thousands of Members in total, to prevent a timetable. So much still has to work in the interplay between Parliament and the Government that the government can comply with at least a timetable, especially when it comes to the fight against crisis or even the fight against crisis, because the matter can be assessed differently. We not only respect that, we also support it. It has to be able to act – in fact, we have too little of it – and it has to be guaranteed. And the timetable did exist. The roadmap was quite clear: End of September/begin October. Just like that. But now, on the other hand, it's part of the thing. Because that is the case, we Greens have already taken a look at what is actually the official timetable for Parliament in June/July. There's a plenary session, today's, so on 21. September, the next would be on Wednesday, 19. October. And that we need an assignment was probably clear. But nothing has actually happened, although it has been pointed out. I know I did this for banal reasons because I just wanted to divide the work. I knew that this must and should come – whether I am for it or against it. But that did not happen, perhaps it was only voting problems. I don't want to do this any more. Only: This is the official timetable for Parliament! [[Intrusion of the Abg. It's funny.]] Actually, it was the white coincidence; I don't think you planned from the black and blue coalition at that time that so many scandals happen in Telekom, in the BUWOG, that we Greens apply for a special meeting. That was not the idea of Black/Blue 2000 until 2006, I would assume that we are now bringing together such a timetable. It cannot be the case that the flying of the Telekom accounts and the affairs, the payments to Mr. Waffenhandler and the payments to Mr Hochegger and so on are crucial to the completion of a Parliament's roadmap, which may be in line with the Euro-17 agreements. As far as it is concerned, the "Graf Ali" is responsible for saving the euro! I have to tell you that. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That was actually the whole background. We could have come to the same level as ourselves. Of course, this was a part-out position of the Greens – I say so self-confidently – because at the same time it turned out that we only... – I mean, that was the case before, that is true, but in the situation and in the rising crisis, it would only have been right and fair if the Members had previously been transferred to the EFSF Treaty, which is in truth and reality in the matter, especially in view of the fact that some of us had the summit results of June and July – especially of 21. July – have praised because the EFSF is finally able to operate because it can finally take out speculation pressure because something is improving. We have honoured this, this outcome of the summit of 21. July, but it must then be understandable to Members that this is at all possible. That's why we asked for it; that's logical, that's right. The Ministry, the Federal Chancellor, has agreed that this will be transmitted – in itself a matter of course, it also had to be fought. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign]] Ladies and gentlemen of BZÖ and FPÖ, be You're glad we put this through! You are probably not so happy, because now you have to read it and deal with the arguments that can be found there.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e16964	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Stadler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e16986	Mr President. High house! Mr Kogler, that's not easy! No, no, you're on the train now. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You're in a twinkling mill!]] You're in a real twinkling mill now. [[Abg. May. Steinhauser: No!]] The population can only decide on this problem, namely Austria's further commitment to Greece's aid, if you are willing to dictate to the coalition the condition that it must submit at least one of these laws as a constitutional law to the house. [[Abg. May. Steinhauser: Do this to you, colleague!]] [[Further calls.]] We said we wanted a referendum. [[Abg. May. Steinhauser:... that of us now? Do it yourself!]] You, excuse me, we can begin to calculate why the coalition does not have a two-thirds majority, whether the coalition has a two-thirds majority with you, whether it has one with us – with us, but it does not get it because we said: We're not playing with this! That is why we will not agree to the deadline today. The FPÖ also says: We're not going with this! The Greens have said as the only one: Yeah, we might want to join you. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: So play with me!]] That is why Mr Kogler is now trying to find out what the great successes of the content and the improvements to be decided by this proposal are. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: We are talking about setting deadlines!]] Yes, yes, it is about this problem – and that is why the coalition has requested a deadline – that, with your support, the necessary legal conditions should be created as quickly as possible, so that money can continue to be lowered in Greece. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Right!]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: That's all simple majority!]] - Well, that's the fact! That is, after Blue/Orange has said: Not with us!, so just stay green. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. May. Steinhauser.]] I love the fact that this causes you to be cheerful. The voter may also be happy when the Greens, who are always talking about basic democracy, say that when it comes to the reduction of billions in Greece, prevent the Austrian population from taking part in it, ladies and gentlemen! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That'll be an interesting question, and we won't let you out of this drawing. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That looks more like nervousness!]] We do not leave you out of this drawing – the shawls were indisputable today, even the applause for the Greens: for colleagues Van der Bellen's polite applause by ÖVP and SPÖ, because one does not want to be surprised with the Greens on this issue – even the corresponding avantages in the main committee by the Federal Chancellor were clear – because one hopes to be able to take with your support this two-thirds requirement. [[Abg. May. Kogler: The Only...!]] Conclusion: The Greens decide with their behaviour whether the Austrian population is allowed to decide or not. This is not a question of how we stand in terms of content. You've got it in your hands, whether it's going over the population or not! We won't let you out of this drawing. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We do not agree with the deadline today; you will agree. You have also rejected this motion for a resolution – I think it is remarkable. In the end, it won't be pleasant for you if it's called billions lowered, government responsible, ministers resigned – but Greens have made the robbers for everything! [[Abg. May. Steinhauser: There are negotiations again!]] This will not be very pleasant for you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e17184	There is no further statement of words to this effect. The debate is closed. [[Abg. May. Kogler: honourable Member Stadler does not want to know the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure!]] The vote has been called for here. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Very good!]] In order to prepare for this vote, I am briefly interrupting the sitting. I'm asking you to stay in the squares. The sitting was suspended.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e17233	I'll start the interrupted session again. We come to the vote on the request, the Financial Committee for reporting on the Federal Act amending the Balance of Payments Stabilisation Act, a period of up to 27. ==References== The vote has been taken on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of Credentials, As this request was made by 20 Members, the vote must be taken. That is why we are doing so. The ballots to be used are in the drawers of the Members' House and bear the name of the Member of Parliament and the name "Yes" – these are the grey polls – or "No" – which are the pink ones. For the vote, only those votes can be used. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Members are called upon to put the vote in the votes cast. I would ask those Members who vote in favour of the motion for a deadline by Mrs Krainer, Dr. Stummvoll, colleagues, to vote in favour of the 'Yes' vote, those who vote against 'No' vote. Be careful to throw only one vote mark. I now ask the author, Mr Zanger, to begin the call for name; Mrs Mag. Lohfeyer will replace him later. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e17306	The vote will end. The officials responsible will now make their votes under the supervision of the scribes. I am going to interrupt the session for a few minutes to this end. The sitting was suspended.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e17345	I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote: Members cast: 161, 115 ‘Yes’ votes, 46 ‘No’ votes. The motion for a resolution by Mrs Krainer, Dr. Stummvoll, ladies and gentlemen, was therefore adopted. According to § 66 para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure, the names of the Members shall be included in the Stenographic Protocol, indicating their voting behaviour. Members voted in ‘Yes’: Ablinger, Amon, Aubauer, Auer Joseph, Bartenstein, Bayr, Mulder, Binder-Maier, Brosz, Brunner, Buchmayr; Cap, Cortolezis scraper, Csörgits; Donabauer Karl, Donnerbauer Heribert, Transmitter; Incubators, eaters; Fazekas, Franz, Fürntrath-Moretti; Gahr, Gartlehner, Gaßner, Gerstl, Gessl-Ranftl, Grillitsch, Großruck, Grünewald; Haberzettl, Hakel Elisabeth, Hakl Karin, Hammer, Haubner Peter, Hechtl, Heinzl, Hell, Höfinger, Hellerer, Hörl, Hornek, Huainigg; Ikrath; Jarolim; Kaipel, Katzian, Keck, Kirchgatterer, Clickovits, Köfer, Kogler, Königsberger-Ludwig, Korun, Kößl, Krainer, Herbs, Krist, Kuntzl, Kuzdas; Lapp, Lettenbichler, Lipitsch, Lohfeyer, Lopatka, Lueger Angela; Maier Ferdinand, Maier Johann, Marek, Matznetter, Mayer Elmar, Mayer Peter, Muchitsch, Muttonen; Neugebauer Fritz; Oberhauser, Obernosterer; Oils; Pendl, mushroom, Pirklhuber, Plessl, Prehauser, Prammer, Praßl, Preiner, Prince; Rädler Johann, Rasinger, Riepl, Rudas; Sacher, Schickhofer, Schitzenhelm, Schmielenschlager, Schönegger Bernd, Schönpass Rosemarie, Schopf, Schultes, Silhavy, Singer, Spindelberger, Stauber Peter, Steibl Ridi Maria, Steindl Konrad, Steinhauser, Steßl-Mühlbachbacher, Stummvoll; Tamandl; Walser, Wenninger, Wittmann Peter, Wöinger, Worm; Zinggl. Members voted with ‘No’: Belakovich-Jenewein, Bucher Josef; Deimek, Dolinschek; Fichtenbauer; Gartelgruber, Grastaur, Graf, Grosz Gerald; Hackl Heinz-Peter, Hagen, Haider, Haubner Ursula, Herbert Werner, Höbart Christian, Huber Gerhard, Hübner Johannes; Jannach, jury; Kickl, Kitzmüller, Kunasek; Laust, Linder, List; Markowitz, Mayerhofer, Mühlberghuber; Neubauer Werner; Podgorschek; Riemer; Scheibner, Schenk, Spadiut, Stadler Ewald, Stefan, Strache, Strutz; Inland waterways; Vilimsky, Vock; Westenthaler, Widmann Rainer, Windwood, Winter; Singer. [[18:42:06]] The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e17536	We are now starting the negotiations on item 2 of the agenda again. I call Mr Hell. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e17560	Mr President. My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen! After the debate on financial and economic policy in Europe, let us return to the report of the Public Prosecutor's Office for the year 2010. My preliminary speakers have already addressed the important key figures, the examination activity and the activities of the public prosecutors. For us, too, as Members of Parliament, who are very often confronted with concerns and concerns of citizens at speaking hours and in personal discussions, the People's Prosecution is a very important institution to show citizens how to achieve solutions to their problems. This report shows that more than 15,000 people have taken advantage of the People's Procuratorate. This shows the need for this institution. In addition to the detailed list of audit activities according to the competence of the Ministries, this report also contains general perceptions. Public attorney Dr. Peter Kostelka dealt with the rights of people with disabilities in the labour market. In May 2007, Austria signed the UN Convention on the Rights of People with Disabilities and ratified it in October 2008. Austria has committed itself to enabling and promoting the participation of disabled people without discrimination. This includes the recognition that people with severe disabilities can also be successful in the labour market. Despite compulsory recruitment, however, there is no right to employment, and the Public Prosecutor's Office notes in this report that not even every fourth employer employs enough disabled people. It's better to pay the compensation tax. According to this report, public sectors, even federal states and Ministries are also impenetrable in their implementation. Ladies and gentlemen! The Public Prosecutor's Office not only examines individual cases, but also considers system errors. This helps us in our work. I would like to thank all the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Procuratorate very much for their work.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e17600	Next speaker: Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e17621	Mr President. Estimated Mrs. Volksanwaltin! Returning to the report that has already been discussed, I too can express a warm thanks to my group to the two lawyers for their work, which is an important monitoring of our activities here in Parliament. Finally, they are also controlling our laws on fitness, and the best practice examples they always mention in their report should also help us to bring about necessary legislative changes if something doesn't work. I did not understand that the colleagues from the BZÖ, out of their personal nature, are talking bad about the work of our lawyers, just because of Mr Stadler, whom I think is just as impartial as I also grant to the current lawyers and the lawyer that they do not act Party-politically, as Mr Grosz said earlier. They do their work excellently and, if you want to see it this way, they are a valuable help for us. A total of 15,265 citizens' concerns speak a very, very clear language for the need for the public prosecutor's instrumentarium and also for the need to listen more closely to what is caused by problems to the public prosecutor's office. For example, if almost a third of the problems related to social issues are related to problems in the labour market, problems in the care sector and much more, this shows that we need action there. For example, when the Public Prosecutor's Report points out that there are problems in implementing the care sector, at the time that goes by decision on the care allowance, I can say: We've already responded. We are already under 60 days, I think at 58 or 59 days, until the procedure is completed. This is, of course, far too long for those concerned, but at least there has been a first step towards improvement. We have also responded in that we have put in place measures in the Care Money Reform Act and in the Care Fund Act, which at least enabled us to reduce the number of paying agencies from 303 to 8. All these are measures that we have done right at the legal level where the People's Procuratorate has pointed out in advance that there are problems. I would also like to address an area that is very, very important to the communities. It is pointed out in the public prosecutor's report that more cooperation between communities is needed in the future. This is an area that we should be much more devoted to in the future. Cooperations are possible especially in the care sector. It is also possible in many other legal and logistic areas that communities work together. This doesn't have to mean merger. But: Cooperation can always be beneficial! In this sense, I should like to thank you, Mrs Volksanwalt, for what you have done so far in your work, and encourage you to follow this path. Continue consistently in the interests of citizens.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e17678	Before giving the floor to the next speaker, I should like to say the following: Members Dr Pilz, colleagues, have withdrawn the request to set up a committee of inquiry to investigate the political responsibility for corruption under the Black and Blue Government and the desire to conduct a debate on this request. In addition, Members of Parliament have withdrawn the request for the setting up of a committee of inquiry for the comprehensive investigation of indirect and direct flows of money without any consideration to the direct environment of politicians and political parties in the cases of Telekom, BUWOG, government radio and ÖBB, as well as the desire to conduct a debate on this request. In addition, Members Dr. Rosenkranz, colleagues and colleagues have withdrawn the request for the setting up of an investigation committee to investigate allegations of corruption and the desire to conduct a debate on this request. [[18:50:20]] Announcement of an application for the establishment of an investigative committee
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e17718	I announce that Deputies Dr. Rosenkranz, Dr. Pilz, Mag. Stadler, colleagues according to § 33 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure have requested to set up an investigative committee to investigate allegations of corruption. There is the desire of five Members to hold a debate on this request. According to § 33 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure shall be debated and put to the vote after completion of the agenda.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e17744	We are continuing the discussion on item 2. Next speaker: Mr Lausch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e17768	Mr President. Dear Mrs. Volksanstalt! High house! The 2010 Public Prosecutor's Report also receives our approval. As our previous speaker, Dr. Winter, said, we also thank the liberals for this comprehensive report. As such, the report is in order and very, very good, but of course much is not in the report. One must criticise the fact that this Parliament has introduced the mandatory Free Kindergarten, but, as the People's Procuratorate has correctly stated, it is an advantage for Pendlers from Lower Austria, if they travel to Vienna every day for their work, but here in Vienna, they do not enjoy a free Kindergartenplatz. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I come from a district – from the Hollabrun district, an ÖVP-dominated district – which is a district with very many counterparts, because the ÖVP has not been able to create jobs there for decades. Thus, a large proportion of the population has to travel daily. That's really significant. I would like to say it in the ranks of the ÖVP mayors, but they seem to have something better to do now are not present here in the plenary room. The interest in the People's Procuratorate Report is probably not particularly great. [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: (winking) Hello!]] – Mr Donnerbauer, mayor of the smallest city, is there. That's very pleasing. There's something you could do already. If Mr Donnerbauer once again takes up the role of the head of state, he may perhaps take it with him that it really is a sense for the population, grotesk and almost a shame – four federal states in Austria are ruled by black and four federal states in red – that for example, it is not possible to reach an agreement with Vienna so that the commuters – the Lower Austrian commuters, who are already twice and triplely burdened and spend much of their leisure time in the train – come to enjoy the mandatory free kindergarten year. This is really not to be understood, not to understand. Of course, the population is right to say: This state government and this process are a consequence. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] At the address of the Greens, who are also speaking in plenary with a resolution for this free kindergarten visit: This is very hypocritical, you have to say. You know, it's country business, you know, you're now a junior partner, the cheapest partner as an election loser in Vienna. One has entered the city government on the SPÖ gang. You would have the chance not to work with dubious resolutions here. They would have the chance – it is state-owned – to place a sign here in Vienna, to prove here in Vienna, not to hang on the gangband of the SPÖ. They could enforce this, it is state matter as said, in Vienna with Vassilakou, but apparently it is not important for the Greens, too, for the sake of appearance and under the rule. The Greens are not a family party either. We already know this at the ÖVP. They have long passed, and the SPÖ cannot prove itself to be a family party. That's a shame. Of course, we liberals will do this. We will always try to play in the media, that this is an expression for the people. Pendlers belong to relief, including financial. They are temporary, leisurely and financially burdened, and we liberals, that can be said with a calm conscience, are the only remaining family party in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e17819	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Lohfeyer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e17840	Mr President. Estimated Mrs. Volksanwaltin! High house! People in the size of a small town, i.e. 15,000, turn to the public prosecutor every year. They are people who do not feel sufficiently informed or unjust and ill-treated. A very important institution is the speech of the lawyers in the federal states. This also creates good opportunities for rural people to benefit from this institution and to make complaints. Social, health, home affairs and justice are the areas in which there are most complaints, and in their perceptions in the annual report, the public prosecutor has made the issue of child and youth health a particular focus and pointed out this so-called open construction site with many shortcomings. Federal Minister Alois Stöger is already more in line with the great need for action in this area in the form of the child health dialogue that has existed since 2010. A paradigm change is to be brought about. Children and their needs are at the heart of the discussion, including the scientific experience of experts from all areas of society. The results of six working groups of this child health strategy will be presented by the Ministry of Health next week. The focus of this new strategy is on appreciation, health promotion, patient orientation and the preservation and strengthening of health resources. The aim is to reduce health risks, promote health development and equal opportunities, as well as structural prevention and overall raise awareness of child and youth health in all policy areas. I mean, child health concerns all of us. Young people need guidance, encouragement, jobs and best education and training to be prepared against unemployment and poverty. Many preventive steps are needed to work with emphasis. The Volksanwälten play a key role in identifying where urgent changes are needed, and also giving us important legal recommendations for this. – Thank you for this, the Volksanwälten and all the employees in the Volksanwaltschaft.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e17880	Next speaker: Mr Hechtl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e17901	Mr President. Appreciate ladies of the People's Procuratorate! Appreciate High House! The 2010 Public Prosecutor's Report is a positive reflection of the quantity of work and a particularly impressive balance sheet. The report shows the extent of the activity. 15 265 The public prosecutor's work is truly a tangible and remarkable result. The People's Procuratorate has helped and helped to clarify many people's concerns in a wide range of areas. However, the report also confirms the great confidence of people in the People's Procuratorate, in our People's Procuratorate, which often helps desperate people in their concerns and problems. The People's Procuratorate also enjoys great recognition. The identification of gaps, the public prosecutor's disadvantages, is important for parliamentary action, even indispensable, I believe. It has had a positive impact on many laws and laws. I am thinking, for example, of increasing the care allowance. I am thinking of compensation for those who are in receipt of the contribution-free insurance in the field of health and pension insurance from the point of view of the care level 3. Although, not least because of the experience and suggestions of the People's Procuratorate, we have repeatedly decided on legal changes that have led to improvements for the people, this report shows us that there is still a lot to be completed and adapted in various areas. I am thinking, for example, of non-contributory health insurance insurance for those who do not have their own self-insurance. With the new Internet portal, access to the People's Procuratorate is made easier, it expands the offer for those concerned. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I too would like to thank the People's Procuratorate for the good cooperation and for their work and continue to wish for success. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e17943	Next speaker: Mrs Ablinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e17965	Mr President. Dear Mrs. Volksanwälten! Finally, as the last speaker, I would like to focus once again on a problem, on a great injustice that you mentioned in the report. It is about people who receive social assistance or whose incomes undermine the prescribed guidelines, which is why they have no chance of granting citizenship. In particular, it concerns recognised refugees, who are disabled because of torture in their professional activity, who are unable to obtain care money or have no income at all, and therefore cannot apply for citizenship; and the Authority has no discretion since the novelle 2005 as mentioned in the report. I bring two specific cases. There is, for example, a Syrian Kurd. He's been a recognised refugee for six years. It is 60 percent disabled and can only pursue a minor employment. His wife is in Karenz, and because of the insufficient income, the four children, despite excellent integration, cannot obtain citizenship. The second example is an Iraqi who has been recognized as a refugee for six years and has been disabled by 50 percent. He's getting care money. Its income consists of social assistance, care and housing aid. It is therefore unable to apply for citizenship under the rules. - That's right. That's where you have to shake your head. [[President Dr. Graf takes over the chairmanship.]] I would urgently ask that we return to the discretionary margin of the authorities, which made it possible before 2005 to grant citizenship in individual cases in financial distress. Because people who have been tortured have the right to stay with us and are recognised refugees, because of that, I do not think we can all do so. I urgently want us to do this and solve it in the next few days. I don't think anyone here in the house can think that's the intention, nobody. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e18008	The next speaker was Mr Vock. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e18031	Mr President. High house! Colleague Hellerer has explained to us that many farmers are insecure because you listen to a few animal protectors. Mr Hellerer, I can confirm to you that our farmers are really insecure. It hardly dares to invest a farmer in a new stable at the moment, because no pig farmer knows what to look like. However, it is not the culprits, but the Minister for Agriculture, Berlakovich, who has not been willing to negotiate for eight months. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Rädler: That's not true at all!]] I think it is a piggy and unfair to the farmers to stand as a protector of the farmers, but at the same time to refuse any conversation and not to sit together with Minister of Health Stöger in order to find a reasonable transitional solution. There is the possibility to act in the interests of farmers – if you want to. But you don't want to, but you want to stand up for each other as a scapegoat, feeling that Federal Minister Stöger, who has admittedly given a very hard time, is ready to talk and compromise. Just to talk and to compromise you need a conversation, and if one minister refuses the other's basis of conversation, then the Constitutional Court will decide. Ladies and gentlemen, either then animal welfare will be lost or our farmers will soon lose their livelihood. But then they can thank Mr Berlakovich.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e18096	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Pirklhuber. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e18118	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Vock has rightly put his finger on the wound, which clearly exists on this side. [[The speaker points towards the ÖVP.]] That is also stated in the report of the Public Prosecutor's Office, and I would like to say that again in all its clarity. I would, however, like to thank this report first of all. Thank you for this excellent report, which we will of course agree with. I am really referring to how many positive approaches are contained in this report and we would be well advised to take these misconceptions seriously and also to take action right here in Parliament and to make requests to eliminate abuses. I take another example from the agricultural sector, which can also be found in this report. Many farmers rightly objected to the fact that they did not receive their payments in 2010. 4 500 farmers were left in the rain without promotions. [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: Then they have not fulfilled the conditions!]] And it's also literally inside: ‘The information of those concerned by the AMA proved to be insufficient.’ So that was clearly a mistake, a lack. In addition, Minister Berlakovich has failed to implement EU law in this area on the whole. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grillitic.]] That's not the only case. As you can see, he simply refuses to hold the talks on the animal husband's question, Mr Grillitsch. It is not the case that a Minister of Agriculture does not take existing laws seriously. This is unacceptable, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP. That's not how it is! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Let us take the report seriously! Let us also try to give concrete support to the good proposals of the People's Prosecution! That is why my colleague, Mr Zinggl, has today tabled the request that nothing other than the existing legislation should finally be taken into account and that the regulation on animal husbandry should be adapted. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grillitic.]] It is therefore up to the government parties, in particular the EIA, to finally signal this willingness to talk. We will make our contribution. I expect Members here in the house to support this finding of the People's Procuratorate. It's all about making the law-compliant state. We are willing to discuss the situation itself, Mrs Höllerer. You know that it is certainly not easy, but if you refuse conversations, then no positive discussion can happen, then no solutions can be developed either. [[Abg. Grill: Well, congratulations!]] [[Abg. Grill: Congratulations!]] That is what we are going to do, Mr Grillitsch. [[Abg. Grillitsch: What did you say to the farmers in Linz? Say that, too!]] I have said that we will be committed to transitional arrangements, and we will do so during the concrete negotiations. You can rely on that. But if you don't have conversations, you can't develop solutions either. That's the thing. That is why I would like to ask everyone in the House to support our request today. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e18218	Mrs Volksanwalt, Dr. Brinek, spoke on a point of view. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e18240	Mr President. High house! I will only make it very short and thank you for the thanks expressed to the public prosecutors to such a great extent. I would like to give thanks to the employees. Without them, we would be powerless. I would like to conclude with you, so to speak, and ask the following question together and leave it in the room for me: When did the People's Procuratorate succeed? – If many people have turned to the People's Procuratorate because of a very bad administration? If we have seen many abuses, however, the administration does not improve and the maladministrations persist? Or if many people can do and solve certain things themselves autonomously and autonomously? That would also be a way to change our culture. Or if, for example, Parliament is able to implement many legislative suggestions quickly and we can talk about quality and further development one day? At any rate, I would like to withdraw and say goodbye to these open questions and add: The People's Procuratorate has always understood itself as a service to Parliament. That is how we want to keep this up in the future. We are looking forward to new constructive meetings and debates next year, but we hope to see some more Discussions on other materials in the autumn in the house. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e18282	No one is reporting on this. I therefore conclude the debate. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We now come to the vote on the request from the People's Procuratorate Committee to take note of this report III-214 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of it to give a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The application is therefore accepted. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Zinggl, ladies and gentlemen, on the production of legal conformity with the animal welfare regulation in relation to the animal welfare law. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. [[19:10:34]] 3rd. Point Report by the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives on petitions No. 54, 57, 62, 70, 72 and 74 as well as the citizens' initiatives No. 28 and 29 (1277 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e18343	We're now on the 3rd. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e18371	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I am proud of the fact that there are people in this country who are involved and who are trying to use direct democratic means of this republic, do so and thus provide Parliament with the basics that enable us to take seriously the thoughts, the desires, the needs of the people, and also to know what affects people, what they are pressing and where they can be used to help them. I have here collected a folder containing 22,000 signatures, from a citizens' initiative, which has worked from Burgenland to Vorarlberg to ensure that the people of South Tyrol receive a second citizenship – the Austrian, the Italian one. [[the speaker holds a white folder in the height]] I'm proud that there are people who are working for such ideals today. I would like to thank you from here, from the Austrian Parliament, very much for this commitment. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] My Dear Ones However, ladies and gentlemen, what has subsequently taken place in the implementation of this citizens' initiative has not really deserved those people who have presented it. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, § 100 of the Rules of Procedure includes how to introduce a citizens' initiative to Parliament. It is clear that these signatures must be submitted to the Parliamentary Directorate and that they must be: Usesus in this House that the President of Parliament always takes over these signatures, as well as petitions. These 22,000 people were hit in the head by the President of the Council. She refused to accept these signatures – you have to imagine that! – she refused to make her premises available. The Parliamentary Directorate was closed. It was refused to accept it there. These 22 000 signatures have been banned in the basement of this House, where these signatures have then been accepted in very dubious legal form, and the office of President Prammer has provided legal and false information. This is not the case, ladies and gentlemen. I would ask you from the Socialist Group to bring your President to the Council. It cannot be said here that the chairman of the South Tyrol Subcommittee may accept these signatures, which he has gratefully accepted. When § 100 para. 4 states quite clearly that these signatures are to be delivered in the Parliamentary Directorate and subsequently passed on to the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives, so it is. This is not a cannibal, ladies and gentlemen of Social Democracy and President Prammer. That's an immense process, and I'm trying to stop these processes! I am also seeking to make this the subject of a presidential!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e18431	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Lohfeyer. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e18452	Mr President. High house! Mr Neubauer, I cannot now comment on this because the petition has arrived in committee – or citizens' initiative, apologies – and we have dealt with it properly there. [[Abg. Neubauer: Citizens' Initiative!]] I really can't comment on what was before. I would like to say to this report that it is the third one this year. It includes six petitions and two citizens' initiatives, two of which have been sent to specialist committees for further processing. Citizens' participation in parliamentary events is very important and a good way to draw attention to issues that we are discussing in the National Council. In order for this to happen even more in the future, it will be possible at Parliament level to agree petitions and citizens' initiatives via the Internet. We are thus taking another important step towards greater citizenship. We have also proposed another hearing, the third one this year, at the next Committee meeting in October, and this time we are dealing with the exit from nuclear energy, the Global 2000 "Raus from Atom" petition, which has joined the 30 communities in Austria and also brought this petition to Parliament. This hearing will be followed by a number of experts on the subject, and a representation of the local authorities will be invited to do so. The fact that this discussion is burning among the nails shows not only the super-GAU of Fukushima or the accident that happened last in France, but also the fact that Austria is surrounded by frontier nuclear power plants and these are in a very worrying state. That is why it is all the more important that, in the sense of our security, every possibility is used to force and support nuclear exodus at the European level. Renewable energy sources and energy efficiency must be forced and the independence of the nuclear industry should be sought. This is certainly a central challenge for Austrian politics in the next few years. In the last Committee on Petitions, as has been said, we have forwarded four petitions and citizens' initiatives to competent committees. I would like to add to the petition 54 “Sale and purchase of properties; Wealth negotiations with the federal states are under way, with a view to the revision of the Federal Forest Act. It was allocated to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry. This petition aims to secure strategic water reserves in Austria. It is intended to ensure that the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Finance is in fact calling for compliance with the ban on sales and also making judicial claims. The municipalities and the federal states concerned have not yet had the opportunity to request the principle of a ban on sales of glaciers, national parks or, for them, strategicly important water resources. Many examples show that the growing desire of the population to participate in political events is quite present. This development will be taken into account in the Committee with more hearings, debates, invitations from rulers and more committee dates. It is gratifying that all political groups agree that petitions and citizens' initiatives are important democratic instruments and that the Committee should continue to gain in importance and awareness. I therefore look forward to another year of sitting with motivation and tension.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e18489	The next speaker was Mr Pirklhuber. 6 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e18510	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Lohfeyer rightly referred to the importance of the necessary appreciation of the question of citizens' participation, citizens' initiatives and petitions. I have to say we have a very constructive working environment. I would also like to stress this positively, because it is not available in every committee. It is also a matter of good will and the willingness of Members to make a little progress. [[Abg. Huber: And in committee management!]] – Of course also in committee management, no question. It is about every individual Member and, of course, about the speakers of the political groups, otherwise no constructive work can be done. I would like to explain briefly why I do not agree with this report – because we have decided the essential things together, and in my opinion, they are also formally correct. One example was the South Tyrol story. We have allocated these to the Committee on Foreign Policy. We have forwarded the Federal Forest Question to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry. But, and this is a concrete point: When it comes to a petition where a municipality has come – by the way the mayor and parties were represented, SPÖ, ÖVP, FPÖ and Greene, in this municipality of Aschach on Steyr – whose mayor Karl Bogengruber and his colleagues, in particular, are calling for an “adequate taxation of assets”, “the abolition of tax privileges” and “the tax equal treatment of labour and capital incomes”, this petition is only taken note of. That means I'll tell you again, but we haven't assigned it to the technical committee. In my opinion, such petitions, even if the government believes that we have already dealt with everything, would be right to re-allocate them to the technical committee. My wish would be that, in the further process, we should add to the right committee the same things that one may not necessarily carry from the outset – for certain political reasons – in the right sense. Now on the content of our next petition meeting on 5 May. October: We'll have a very big hearing again. This petition, which is now a nuclear exodus, which is a European issue, was also supported and brought in by the club members. I think that this shoulder closure, which is just common, very prominent, is very positive. I now also expect to be treated – and we have just discussed this – so that we continue to deal with this petition so seriously. It was also introduced in the European Parliament with 700 000 signatures. Our consideration is that we assign this petition to the main committee after hearing. This would have the advantage that the club members there in the main committee could also seriously discuss the European dimension of this issue, namely the energy strategy of Europe et cetera. Then, too, the Federal Chancellor has the opportunity to consider the initiatives that he has perhaps already started or is willing to start in order to make more active progress as before in the nuclear phase in Europe. So that would be an important step, and I hope for broad approval. In conclusion: Very, very great is that we have managed to also inspire Parliament's management, to introduce online petitions or online support. You will be able to support individual petitions online as early as tomorrow, when you go to Parliament's homepage – this is the trial phase. This means that citizens' participation can be improved, expanded. Any petition can be supported by citizens from the time it is brought in, until that moment when it was dealt with in the plenary session in the Committee. So look at this! Support Get this initiative! In addition, I am convinced that even if we have introduced this once, when it works well, we will see that we need to further expand this, that we must strengthen the participation and opportunities of direct democracy in Austria as well. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e18547	The next speaker was Mr Gahr. 6 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e18568	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) High house! The previous speakers have already made it. The present report on petitions and citizens' initiatives offers a wide range of issues, concerns and problems which are directly involved in the parliamentary process, whether it concerns house pharmacies or broadband. Development or award of the digital dividends, but also the sale of property of the Federal Forests up to the dual citizenship of South Tyrol – a citizens' initiative, whose formal treatment here in Parliament has initiated colleague Neubauer. As South Tyrol spokesperson of my party, I will deal with the content a little bit. I believe that, even if perhaps not all the formalities have gone well, this petition and this citizens' initiative, which brought 22 000 signatures, will be treated and examined in a very comprehensive way in Parliament, even if they are valued by these 22,000 people. It has already been said that, of course, overall rights will continue to be strengthened in the future. The possibility of hearing – once a year, I think – is a great opportunity for people to join directly and participate via online platforms. I believe that this is a support for citizens' initiatives, which may often be more difficult to understand and to achieve a wide range of effects. I have already said that this concern, supported by 22 000 signatures, regarding the dual citizenship of South Tyrol has been examined in advance, already now, by international law, citizenship law and constitutional law. Opinions have been obtained. There is an opinion by Professor Obwexer, a international legalist of the University of Innsbruck. In addition, opinions or opinions were obtained from the Federal Ministry of the Interior. It is found that according to current legal situation Austrian citizenship is generally only in the award procedure according to § 11a para. 4 Z 2 Citizenship Law 1985 can be granted. This means that the acquisition of this second citizenship for South Tyrol is excluded under these provisions. However, there is also an opinion from the Federal Ministry of European and International Affairs. It appears that the granting of a possibility for South Tyroleans to acquire Austrian citizenship in addition to Italian, without a resident in the territory of the Republic of Austria, should in any case require a greater reconstruction of Austrian citizenship law. So, I think, we will take the next step and deal with this petition after the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives in the Committee on Foreign Policy, and, as a next step, in the South Tyrol Subcommittee, we will create the framework and the preparatory work to enable us to make a political decision later on. Why is this petition a relatively comprehensive one? Of 500 million people living in Europe, 50 million live as a minority in another country, and there are 134 minorities in Europe. That is why the South Tyrol autonomous model is a prime example of how to deal with how to integrate minorities and strengthen and expand minority rights. Although in the case of South Tyrol many things have been overcome in recent years – it has always been separated from Austria for 90 years – there are still things to be asked to do that I believe can improve and optimise, and this petition or citizens' initiative should contribute to this. In summary, it is to be said: The roadmap for the future is clear. We will now consult, we will involve external experts – this is the wish of some of us here in the Committee, as well as in the South Tyrol Subcommittee – and we will have the framework bed and breakfast. This is the first time that the Commission has been able to take a decision on this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e18632	The next speaker was Mr Vock. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e18653	Mr President. High house! First of all, we are of course pleased that both citizens' initiatives will be passed on to competent specialist committees. This shows that we are taking citizens' concerns more seriously than just ending up here today. However, we are also experiencing today once again how representatives of the SPÖ are turning to the National Council for help. Now I don't know. Is it not possible for these Members to enforce themselves within the Party or to be in favour of their own government? Both are, of course, a serious problem, because thank God not ours. But I understand that. It may sometimes be that the government team stops in such a way that it doesn't want to talk to its own Members anymore. We have here the petition 57 with which the National Councillor Hagenhofer addressed to Minister Hundstorfer, among other things, the request “Faire Pensions for voters”. What I don't quite understand: If a pensioner doesn't vote because he's frustrated by the government, he won't get a fair pension, will he? It is interesting that this is a request from a then SPÖ national councillor to a SPÖ minister. But we understand that if, obviously, the basis for the discussion is no longer available, one is looking for the way through the National Council. Similarly interesting is the petition 54 concerning “Federal Forests: Sale and purchase of real estates”, the Mag. Johann Maier introduces, fearing that the Federal Forests sell strategic important water resources. If the opposition were to claim that the government was selling our water resources, there would be a call in this country. But if it says a SPÖ delegate?- Oh, my God! – Of course I understand this concern, we share it. Actually, the Committee on Petitions – Mr Pirklhuber has already said it – should be a possibility of direct democracy, perhaps also a minority right, so that even an opposition party can bring something in. We all understand the opposition, however, if representatives of the government parties cannot enforce themselves in their own party and look for the way through Parliament. We will continue to be happy to support them in the future. It is only these Members who, if there are proposals to be voted on in this sense, must also have the courage to break out of this force of the political groups and to vote in favour of the opposition. [[Abg. May. Brunner: Your own petitions!]] Then: On the one hand we cannot say, please help us, and on the other hand, if you offer them help, you will vote for the force of the political groups. [[Congratulations with FPÖ, BZÖ and Greens.]] In this sense: We like to help, but then you also need to have a little more courage to agree with the opposition.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e18697	Next speaker: Mrs Haubner. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e18720	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, who are still in the plenary room! The Committee on Petitions has always been a point of contact for citizens, petitions and initiatives and is becoming increasingly frequent. I have had this experience particularly as a chairman, since I have had the honour of chairing this committee for over a year. I suspect a very simple reason why more and more citizens are choosing this path of direct democracy: that they simply no longer trust in the policy offered by the government, that they no longer believe in policy's ability to act and therefore use this instrument of direct democracy. In 2010 we had three meetings, in 2011 we now have five meetings and a wealth of agenda items. At the beginning of 2010, we had an average of 16 agenda items, at the beginning of 2011, we had around 30 agenda items and now, although we have more meetings, we had 52 agenda items in the last session. [[Congratulations on BZÖ and Greens.]] This shows that there is a great need for this instrument – in the case of important concerns, as citizens' access to their right to express: There are problems, I want something to change. We try together – and this is perhaps the special thing about this committee – we have common interest, because something is going on, namely through intensive work, more meetings, good preliminary work, but also through the opening of the committee. I think Mr Pirklhuber or colleague Lohfeyer said we have a big hearing again next time. Especially on the very sensitive topic of nuclear energy – Euratom, nuclear waste dumps, exit from nuclear energy – we have completed a lot of hearings in the past. It is also a common concern for us to facilitate access as a whole, through simple electronic consent. This new form of participation, the improved presentation, we will soon be presenting together to the public and showing that we have to take a step in the interests of the citizens here without much change in the Rules of Procedure – otherwise we will have to wait a long time. This report again contains a variety of topics. They are a mirror of society, you could say, if you see that there are more and more social concerns. I am thinking of the various citizens' initiatives against the reduction of family benefits. In this report, we now have, among other things, a petition that cannot be saved on the back of children and young people. People do not want them to be shortened rather than to take up necessary reforms. They do not find this fair and fair and do not understand it. This time again we have a concern – Mr Vock has already mentioned it because it was introduced by a former colleague – which also deals with a very hot social issue, namely the pension system, which I believe should only demand that there be no zero round for pensioners, that is too little. We need to see that the pension system as a whole does not become a patchwork anymore and that there is a negotiating marathon every year, namely on the questions: Which pensions will be increased? Which pensions are not increased? How are they adjusted? Here is much more to do, and people feel that. Here is an absolute need for action. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] What I particularly want – it has also been mentioned by my previous speakers – is that, in addition to good cooperation, the government parties are jumping over their shadows sometime and are increasingly assigning important topics to the specialist committees. There is still a great difference between opposition and government parties, and I believe – apart from the fact that no one falls a stone out of the crown – that we could really discuss the topics very well there and make the people who bring in these initiatives feel that they are not pervasive, because we are accepting their concerns, they are discussing here a little, and that is it, but that we are really serious about their problems. [[He was in favour of the BZÖ and the Deputies Mag. Brunner and Dr. Pirklhuber.]] A positive example, which has already been mentioned, is the allocation of the citizens' initiative to the Foreign Policy Committee of the dual citizenship of South Tyrol. Not only is it an initiative of around 22,000 North and South Tyrols, who were also personally present in Parliament – I also had the honour of having talks here and listening to their concerns in person – it is simply a legitimate concern that our friends from South Tyrol have. It is not only a statement from the Ministry of the Interior that says: [[OBJECTIVES]] The current legal situation does not make it possible. Therefore, a possible solution must be found in the Committee on Foreign Affairs – Mr Gahr has spoken in this direction – in the interests of our South Tyrolean countrymen in this matter. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Petitions is usually not at the heart of parliamentary interest, but it is a body that takes up real problems from the immediate environment of human life – problems that are raised to us and which we have to treat here as responsible politicians and parliamentarians. In times when many people are frustrated, in which unfortunately many of God's people no longer use their right to vote, we must try to ensure that this form of political expression of will – in addition to the popular questioning and popular desire – is extended to include this form of political expression of will and direct democracy, and that we also deal with the issues truly responsible and serious. I would like to thank all the Committee's colleagues for this.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e18821	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Brunner. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e18843	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start by thanking all those who have made the effort to bring citizens' initiatives and petitions to the committee. This requires a lot of commitment. At any rate, I am glad that there are still citizens in Austria who find it worth the effort, To engage politically, and I think we should continue to make it easier for people to do so. As an environmental spokesperson, I would like to take out a petition. This is about the ban on plastic sacks, which we have had the last time in the Committee on Petitions. We will not vote here today, not only because of this petition, but also because we feel that the opinions of the Ministry of Agriculture are inadequate. We are not satisfied with both content and handling this petition. The plastic sack, I think, is pretty much the most unnecessary environmental pollution at all. It does not make up the large proportion of the waste, but it is simply unnecessary. A plastic sackerl can easily be replaced and it is the symbol of our disposable society. I think it would be a first important step towards waste prevention. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That is why I did not understand the opinion of the Minister for Agriculture here at all. The requirement was to introduce a plastic sacckerel ban in the sense of the prevention of waste, and the answer was: We have high recycling quotas, we separate garbage! Recycling and waste separation is important, but does not really have anything to do with waste prevention. Waste prevention is once again a step higher. Unfortunately, the Minister for Agriculture has still not understood this. I think that is very bad, so Austria unfortunately falls back in the area of waste prevention. And the opinion he has also given on this is quoted in relation to plastic sacks, which were commissioned by the plastics industry. I think that's not the right answer when it comes to it. I find it inappropriate that especially the Minister for Agriculture, who is responsible for the environment, uses the arguments of the plastic industry against environmentalists. I am also sorry that the petition was not assigned to the Environment Committee, as Mr Haubner mentioned. I think there would be the place to discuss the content of this ban. We have already tried to do so there on opposition requests, where the government parties have so far not been able to do so. I think it would be good for us if we were once again to come up with the momentum of committed citizens, and it would be fair to the petition that we should also deal with this issue in terms of content in the Committee on the Environment. Especially when the Minister is inactive here, committed citizens need to give impetus to the debate again. Unfortunately, this is not happening. We will still stay here and also work for the plastic sackerl ban. That is why I conclude with the words: Austria needs an independent, strong and committed Ministry of the Environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e18900	Next speaker: Mr Lipitsch. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e18921	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! It has already been mentioned by my previous speakers. I have been in this committee since this legislative period, and if I take up the first meetings we held on this committee have, and how this has developed in these three years, I think it's a great thing. We should continue this path, because this is really direct democracy, and that includes all areas of life, like the newly introduced – and we already have many – petitions and citizens' initiatives on the agenda, but also the opportunity to hold these hearings. If I make the collective report today – six petitions, two citizens’ initiatives – I would also like to thank the bodies where we request opinions very much, because they also deliver the opinions and we often request additional opinions. – Thank you very much to those who make these comments. It is, of course, true that, if something goes well, people see, I bring a little further, I am going to listen to it, and this also shows the variety of petitions and citizens' initiatives that are coming. I would just like to draw up a citizens' initiative which we are dealing with today, namely those relating to the country doctor's office in the market community of Grafenegg. We already have the next citizens' initiative on rural health services and house pharmacies here. That means that there are possibilities around it, and we have allocated them to the Health Committee. I believe that this is also very important, and the discussion should show where a petition, a citizens' initiative is being dealt with properly and where it should be dealt with. I think we are on the right path, that we have also allocated four requests to committees this time of eight applications – let us say so. We will also be moving in this direction in the next discussions, I believe. It is actually up to us – that is what the three years have shown – how we are shaping this committee, how we want to bring something forward for citizens. I think we are on the right path, and we should continue in this form too.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e18967	Next speaker: Member of the jury. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e18988	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, this Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives has been very well discussed. There are allocations, there are statements from ministries. What is causing me a little bit – but this is like a red thread through this house – is simply this refusal and this inactivity of our two government parties. When it comes to pension increases, when it comes to young people and families and social issues, this political commitment of citizens is simply smeared off, coldly smeared, because we – and I see this already in the last half of the year – are actually no longer working for our citizens, but are only discussing more about rescue shields and how we should distribute our money to the best possible and most economical way in Europe. [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: This is not true!]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I am with my colleagues who really highlight this political commitment of the population, but then I am not with our government parties – I say it again – who simply dispose of these problems, which the citizens really have, here in plenary. Hopefully, this should change in the future, that should get better. If the government parties simply don't want to work anymore, then at the end of the day they should be so brave to clear the way for new elections. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] From the petitions I would like to refer to a closer approach to those that the ÖVP club has introduced, namely the broadband offensive for Austria. I would like to help with advice and action. The country of Carinthia has implemented this broadband offensive as an example since 2003. We have invested €8 million and we are with the broadband offensive pioneers in Austria. For this we have received four awards from the European Union from various Commissions: from the Competition Commission, from the Technology Commission, from the Committee on Rural Affairs and from the Commission for Infrastructure. That is, we in Carinthia accept this challenge and we also do something for the citizens to make this infrastructure available. If today Villach and Klagenfurt are the only cybercities of Austria, where 30 megabits per second are available in each household, then this is a demonstration project from Carinthia. Dear ÖVP club, we are very much at the side of the board when it comes to the implementation of the Austrian broadband initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e19037	The next speaker is Mrs Hellerer. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e19058	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I am with all the previous speakers who have appreciated the work of this committee. It's been playing all kinds of things last year. The Committee has received much more petitions and citizens' initiatives, and I also support all those who have said that we are intensively concerned about the various topics, that there are good preliminary discussions that we are now facing the third hearing, which is well prepared and will also deal with very prominent issues, namely nuclear exodus, Euratom and, of course, nuclear deposits. It will be exciting to hold these discussions there, and I am also convinced that, overall, we are also on the right track with this committee in the further development of modernisation. As has already been said today, six petitions and two citizens' initiatives are included in the collective report and are on the agenda, with two petitions – the petition No. 54 concerning ‘Federal Forests: Sale and purchase of properties’ to the Committee on Agriculture and Petitions No. 70 on the allocation of ‘digital dividends’ to the Research, Innovation and Technology Committee. The Citizens' Initiative No. 28 on ‘Austrian citizenship for South Tyrol’ has already been discussed here and is discussed in the Foreign Policy Committee. The Citizens' Initiative No. 29 on the maintenance of the home apothecary of the rural doctor’s office in the market municipality of Grafenegg is assigned to the Health Committee. I would like to address them more precisely because they are my community and the Signatories fear that health-related, health-care deficiencies in rural communities may occur in the future due to the lack of general physicians. We know that in the next few years about 30 percent of general physicians will retire, and today it is already true that open contractual offices have to be registered four to five times in certain regions until a doctor can actually be found. This was also the case in the municipality of Grafenegg. The young physician, who could be found and who will take over this contractual office, cannot remain at this place of ordination. There has so far been a house apothecary, but unfortunately it is only 5.5 kilometres away from the next public pharmacy; it should be 6 kilometers legally. Now I ask you: Do you know how difficult it is to lay down 6 km if you are not the same mobile? For old people or for very young with strollers, this is simply not possible without a car. Therefore, this young physician is also required to establish a new ordination, which will be at a corresponding distance to the public pharmacy. There is already a construction site and on this construction site the house apotheque was also approved. The community citizens of Grafenegg say: We live in Schilda. [[Abg. Kickl: That this is possible in Lower Austria?! Who's the head of state?]] On the one hand, there is a well-functioning, well-introduced ordination in the center of the community, which threatens to be orphaned, on the other hand, there is a construction site that is 2 kilometres away from where there is a house apotheque, so to speak on the green meadow. That really doesn't understand any more. The situation of the municipality of Grafenegg stands for example for many other communities that will be in a similar difficult situation in the future and may not find a general physician, if it is not possible to continue to operate a house apothecary there, because it is simply not economic for a young physician to work there. It is particularly important that the population should be well cared for and not provided worse than in the urban area. In future, as has already been said, citizens will have the opportunity to give their consent online to citizens' initiatives and petitions. We all soon have the opportunity – I think it will run from tomorrow in the trial operation – to look into how this presents itself. I would also like to invite everyone: Look at what citizens' initiatives, petitions are currently under consideration and how consent can work in the future! Perhaps you can also make a little sense of it, because I think that direct democracy, just as it can be lived by the population in this sense with an approval, is really important. It's the right step. I would like to thank all those who have worked so hard on it, including the chairmen of the political groups, for they have all contributed this idea. It is a modern, contemporary development of the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives. I have already said today that direct democracy is going online. It's not that way, I know, it's not right, but it's a wishful idea of me, and I hope that this can be further expanded in this sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e19095	Next speaker: Mrs. Dr. Winter. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e19116	Mr President. High house! During the morning, the statement took place that there had been 30 agenda items in the Scientific Committee and only relatively little time to do so. What do you want me to say? . We had 52 agenda items in the Committee on Petitions and also relatively little time. But time is just a big, important factor with us, which is not quite that present and which one can have in this way. These 52 agenda items have consisted of 48 petitions, as mentioned above, and four citizens' initiatives, with nearly 20 petitions – and this is certainly an outflow from the Fukushima disaster – dealing with nuclear exodus. We have – and this has already been mentioned – initiated and guided a hearing for the next meeting in this regard. I think this is extremely important, since one of these atomic petitions has also been signed by all the club members of all parties. However, we cannot accept this collective report – and I feel very often like a Tibetan prayer mill – because I praise the presidency on the one hand, but on the other hand I have to criticise the fact that the government parties do not respond accordingly, that petitions and citizens' initiatives in particular are not treated in the same way as we imagine that they are relatively often brought to the attention. And notice, even though this is always being introduced and said by the government parties, is – and I am firmly convinced – a “primary of the first class”. Then: What's going on? It will be taken note of in the Committee on Petitions, but in the end there will be the same conditions and the same majority in plenary. So what's going to change here, what's going to happen? Unfortunately, he's getting rid of it like that. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Höllerer has just explained what happened to these petitions and citizens' initiatives that have come to the National Council and led to today's debate. But exactly the one petition that is really very important to us, which has not been mentioned and which has practically been brought to our attention. It is about the petition of my colleague Bernhard Themessl, the petition concerning a fair and transparent real estate agent regulation. There is a lot to be disputed here in the procedure. ==References== It was introduced last October last year and is now being dealt with practically only. However, the changes in the regulation on state-of-the-art and practice rules for real estate brokers, which were made by us on 25 July. ==References====External links== At the time, we were very likely to point out that these changes – and these are the commissions that have been shortened by three to two – are likely to lead to a standstill in this sector, and some companies are also very threatened with existence in this regard. You have to say that's exactly what happened. Now, after a year, you can take stock of it. But there are other criticisms. In the industry's view, inequalities in this amendment to the Regulation have been identified, namely that remuneration for the placement of private spaces and remuneration for the placement of business premises can still not be treated equally, but can be calculated differently. Minister Mitterlehner then referred to our amendments that he would also conduct an EU-wide survey on the legal or state-of-the-art rules of mediation fees. This opinion is still not available. As a result, he was also in favour of the abolition of the current real estate market regulation as well as the reorganisation. There is no opinion on this either. We are still in favour of the abolition or replacement of the rental contract fees and also for a tax deductibility of the Real estate placement fees, which are very possible for business premises or companies, but not for private individuals. Finally, I would like to take up again the question of Advocate General Brinek: Is it better for us – and I am now referring to the Committee on Petitions – to have many petitions and citizens' initiatives, or would it be better and better to demonstrate a better political climate in this country, would fewer citizens' initiatives and fewer petitions come in, and the citizens would be more satisfied with the political climate in that country?
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e19188	Next speaker: Mr Huber. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e19210	Mr President. High house! Many praises have already been expressed on this committee today, and I think that is very much related to the leadership. That is why we should all once congratulate Ursula Haubner. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] But if we talk about South Tyrol today – and we have to – then I have to say that the ÖVP is not fish and not meat. The South Tyroleans are really tired that official Austria negates its concerns and simply does not respond. We should not only talk about dual citizenship and create legal conditions for it, but also about anchoring Austria's defence power function in our constitution. This could be recorded in a Preamble or directly in the Constitution. But this summer the Foreign Minister and Vice-President in South Tyrol said that there is no change to the Constitution. For dual citizenship, 22 000 Tyroleans have signed. These 22 000 Tyroleans have certainly thought of something, and these signatures must be respected. You must not forget one thing: In 1919, South Tyrol was joined to Italy, and in 1922 about 400,000 people were forced to be Italianized. These people and their descendants have a right to double citizenship! [[In the case of the BZÖ, as well as the members of the FPÖ.]] As South Tyrol speaker of the BZÖ – and for me it is so that I am at all the only one who works here for the concerns of the Tyroleans – I already have to say one thing: [[Abg. Kickl: Well, after! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] There are millions of double citizenships in Europe today. Mr Gahr says that this is very difficult and is not legally possible. Please, we need to create these legal possibilities as national councillors, for which we are here. In practice, there are already a lot of people today who have double citizenship. There are many marriages, for example, where the husband is a Tyrolean and the wife is a South Tyrol woman. Their children, when born in South Tyrol, have double citizenship. These kids have two passports, but both administrations don't know anything about each other. There's no such thing as that, but there's it. It cannot be the case that these people are denied citizenship, provided that they themselves want it. I also believe that this is a real signal towards Europe. This would be a European solution, because dual citizenship must be enshrined in the Constitution, as well as the defence function. The people in South Tyrol and also in North Tyrol are really disappointed by Vienna and Innsbruck. They are tired to hear the plattites of a plater and a spindlelegger, they really have it up to the top. [[Abg. Gahr: Hello, hello! A little more respect!]] If it is not the case that this citizens' initiative is taken seriously if one does not attack it in the Committee, and if one does not really accept the concerns of these Austrians, it is very sad. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] After all, there are thousands of double-citizenships in Brazil in thirteen countries, and those are also Tyroleans who have emigrated mainly from Wildschönau to Brazil. They all have dual citizenship. Then we cannot deny this to our Tyroleans. The next thing we urgently need to talk about is that the ÖVP today officially says that the Brenner border is not an unfair limit. It's just legendary. There we all have to keep together, because this border is perceived as wrong by all the Tyroleans – today, still, also by the young generation. No one talks about it, not Dr. Wolfgang Schüssel in the committee last time – now he is no longer here. This is obviously no longer an injustice, no one feels it as such; we are in the great, beautiful EU, everyone has freedom of travel. - It can't be. These things, too, are included in the Constitution, and this must never be forgotten. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] No Austrian has chosen to become Italian in 1919, not a single one! Many had to emigrate. Those who have remained have the right to double citizenship. We'll see from the BZÖ that they get them. And above all, we will treat these 21,000 Tyrolean signatures with respect – and not like the ÖVP look that they are sending somewhere!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e19286	Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig is next spoken. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e19308	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I cannot understand the dissatisfaction of the opposition parties today. I cannot fully understand why the report cannot be approved. It is precisely in this collection report that four petitions and two citizens' initiatives were allocated to the specialist committees. This is a very, very positive development, with which we could all be satisfied in this Committee on Petitions. Mrs Winter, I do not see any different treatment of petitions by the opposition parties and those of the government parties either. I see no difference at all, and every petition will be dealt with equally in this committee. Opinions will be received, it will be discussed in the Committee – I think we often have very excited discussions on the Committee's petitions. If the petitions are taken note of, they will also be discussed in the plenary session. I do not think that taking note is a “primary class”, but we then discuss directly here in plenary the concerns of the citizens. Of course, that does not mean – and this is perhaps the different view – that the opinions are always in the interests of the supportive Members. It is true that there are also opinions that may not like, not as you would wish. You just have to take note of that, that's living democracy. This does not mean, however, that citizens' initiatives and petitions are not taken seriously. On the other hand, I really want to defend myself, because I think that we are discussing very well in committee. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: But I don't think you were there as...!]] – I am always in the Committee, and I think we are really discussing well. I would also like to say a word to Mr Vock, because he was concerned at the fact that the relationship between the SPÖ and the Ministers might not work quite well: I can really take this worry from you. We have a very good understanding and understanding with our ministers. Nevertheless, it is also the right of Members of the government groups – I would like to stress that – to support petitions. A petition is assigned to this report, namely that of Mr Maier. As far as Mr Hagenhofer's petition is concerned, I think it was well justified by Federal Minister Hundstorfer that the fears that the intruders had were unwarranted. That is why you can take note of them calmly, of which I am really convinced 100 percent. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: We have also unanimously accepted that!]] Mr Pirklhuber, you mentioned the petition “No Saving for Children, Youths, Families and Social Affairs. ” I'm all your opinion. I am also 100% sure that all of us will continue to be accompanied by the concerns of this petition in the political discussions, because I am convinced that the question of justice raised in this petition is one that has a great deal to do with us. If you look at the figures, you know that only 1 per cent of the population has one third of the assets, that wealth taxes in Austria account for only 0.5 per cent of GDP – for example: In France it is 3.4 percent, in Switzerland 2.2 percent. That is why I am convinced that this petition, even if it is taken note of today, will still be very busy with us. In us, in social democracy, the bringers have really strong partners.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e19358	Next speaker: Mr Obernosterer. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e19379	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! I do not want to repeat much of what my previous speakers have said. I have only recently been in the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Your predecessor would definitely like to go back to the plenary!]] Mrs Haubner, I must say that this praise to you as chairman was not for nothing: You have a quiet presidency, it seems to me almost as in the Tourism Committee, it is very harmonious. This is not the case in every committee. The most important thing in the petitions or citizens' initiatives is that they are taken seriously. When they get into the house, they have to be taken seriously. I have looked through this and have to say, without counting these points individually now, there are many things in which the legislation is quite clear, but when it comes to implementing outside, it can sometimes be made more civil-friendly. A law also has a certain range. One time has already been mentioned a few times: the reception of the house apotheke. I know this from my region and also from Hermagor. Although there is a very clear requirement, with a lot of good will it can also be possible to ensure that these supply constraints cannot be met at shorter intervals. I have to say that I have read 5,5 kilometres here – it is no different with me in the Lesachtal, because it is up to 15 kilometers until you come to the next house apotheke. But if it is not possible otherwise and the density is no different, you also have to do so, as I said. Short to the greens: You said you can't go here today because of the petition to the plastic sacks. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Plastiksackerl!]] It was clearly discussed, and you know the reason why it is. We know that there should be a European system. We have therefore said that we will not go ahead in Austria now if a general regulation can come from the EU. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: We could have that discussed in the Committee on the Environment!]] As I said, it was taken seriously, we discussed clearly, and there was a clear reason why it was rejected. Furthermore, Mrs Colleague referred to the subject of real estate agents, where 3 to 2 percent has gone down. We also know this problem, which is certainly different in the central area than in the country. What one's suffering is the other's joy. Of course, those looking for housing are happy that they have to pay less. The brokers must put this one percent in, that certainly hurts, but that does not threaten existence. I think it was more served by being able to help the many people seeking housing, because we also know the practice of real estate agents. It is sometimes billed flat-rate and not over 3 percent. That's just been corrected down. The petition “No Saving for Children, Youths, Families and Social Affairs ” was also addressed. Yesterday we heard from ÖVP-side that there will also be something in this direction next year. It is important that certain points, which seem to have already been dealt with, be re-examined. It is constantly being rethinked, new facts are coming to the table again and again. I am sure that this petition will find its fulfillment in the near future, because I believe that family and youth are a topic that should be promoted better in the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e19442	Next speaker: Mr Wenninger. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e19463	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Before I agree with the general praise of the reform steps, the Committee's work, I would like to say something about the Greens in terms of the Pirklhuber petition, the ban on plastic sacks. I think Mr Brunner has already answered it very clearly. This is certainly not the central environmental issue at the time of the energy transition, but it has a symbol character. That is why I would like to remind you that there is a motion for a resolution which we have decided here in the plenary session, which states that, despite the forthcoming European regulations, steps are being taken in Austria in order to give up the nylon sacckerl, this sign of disposable society and the waste of resources. We are perfectly on a line in content. We will continue to put a lot of pressure together, because we are also very close to the citizens in this area. I believe that this is no reason not to give the collective report approval now. We could move much more together if we agree. Anyway, I would like to thank the chairman and the group leaders for the enormous reform that is taking place in the Committee – the numerous hearings and the online signing option in the future. It is nevertheless necessary to put some arguments from the head to the feet. The thesis that it is to be associated with dissatisfaction with government policy when citizens bring more petitions and citizens' initiatives, I cannot stress. This is perhaps the view of my colleague, Mr Winter; My colleague, Mr Haubner, has formulated this similarly. The right to petition and the introduction of citizens' initiatives is part of our democracy, just as representative democracy is anchored in parliamentarianism in Austria. I see it as a positive sign when the citizens increasingly turn to the Austrian Parliament to address their concerns and concerns. Another comment on the way in which it works: It cannot, however, be the task of the Committee on Petitions to simply delegate to specialist committees. We could then leave it to Parliament's management, and the President of the National Council decides: Subject matter anyway, forwarding to the technical committee. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: No! We want opinions!]] We already have the task of evaluating content, getting opinions and then bringing it to the plenary session of the National Council. It is a “first class funeral” when something is discussed here in plenary after an opinion, a somewhat clumsy way of dealing with the concept of democracy. I would particularly like to address this to Mr Vock. On the contrary, the citizens therefore address us so that we can debate the requests here in the National Council's plenary session and then come to a decision. Each of us is free to submit the content in the relevant specialist committee in the form of a request. I am especially looking forward to hearing the exit from nuclear energy. This is a sign that there is great national consensus here that the nuclear exodus, the energy transition that the Federal Government has launched, is seriously supported by Parliament and that there is great contradiction in the Austrian population.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e19503	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Lettenbichler. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e19524	Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen at home in front of the screens! [[Abg. May. Gaßner: Do you think who else is watching?- Oh, my God!]] High house! In this House, we are repeatedly making confessions for a functioning, viable rural area, and I believe that if we already confess to it, then we must follow these words even more. In addition to the already mentioned petition to preserve the agricultural pharmacies, we find in the collection report the demand for a rapid award of the digital dividend. Well, ladies and gentlemen, what is the digital dividend? – As you all know, television and radio have switched from analogue to digital transmission. This has made large portions of the frequency spectrum free, and this gain at available frequencies is called a digital dividend. Ladies and gentlemen! The fact that fast Internet access is a prerequisite for a healthy economic development of rural areas is also largely a matter of agreement in this House. From our point of view, it must not be a disadvantage whether you live in the country or in a city. Cross-border broadband development, however, is also a site issue for businesses and for people who have or want to settle in rural areas. Today, it is obvious that, for example, a comprehensive power supply, a dense channel network or a good transport infrastructure are also available in remote areas. In the future, of course, it must also be our goal to ensure a broad supply of a fast, comprehensive Internet infrastructure. From our point of view, it is urgently necessary to use the above mentioned digital dividends. The mobile operators are waiting for it and the population has a right to it. The development of glass fibre is of course also a reasonable alternative, but still too expensive – perhaps not in urban areas, but still in the countryside. However, the Ministry's opinion of March of this year revealed that the auction of frequencies will be possible in the course of 2011, at the latest by the beginning of 2012, nothing has happened so far. Even now it is already the case that the auction will only be started in the autumn of 2012, i.e. only in a year. Ladies and gentlemen! I guess it can't be. The competent minister Bures is required to finally take steps and establish facts in the award procedure. There are technical possibilities to bring the fast internet relatively easily into rural areas. It is difficult for me to understand why this opportunity is not taken. Finally, I should like to add one aspect that seems to me to be particularly important, because the award of the digital dividend must also be taken into account that there will be no discrimination for remote areas. It does little to help us if we grant the frequency and then forget about the rural regions and only serve the conurbation centres. That is why a resolution was tabled by the Federal Council on the initiative of our colleague Georg Keuschnigg with the support of the SPÖ and decided to take particular account of this in the tendering conditions for the auction of the digital dividends of the rural area. Germany has set itself a very ambitious goal of achieving at least 90 % coverage in all regions by the end of 2015. In Austria, we are still very far from this, and Mrs Bures has been called upon to act quickly. – Thank you for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e19561	As the last speaker on this item on the agenda, Mr Preiner is speaking on behalf of the European Parliament. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e19582	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. I take a position on two petitions, on the one hand on the request for a broadband initiative in rural areas. In this regard, I should like to mention that this initiative is an important boost for the regional economy, for private households, but also for schools and other rural educational institutions. The Burgenland again takes on a pioneering role in the ranking of the Austrian federal states. The further expansion plan of the country of Burgenland has been made available for this year and for 2012 € 700 000, of which more than €500 000 is co-financed by the EU, € 87 000 each from the country of Burgenland and the federal government. We also intend to implement 80 percent accessibility with this initiative of broadband Internet expansion in the country. Of course, aonTV will also be able to be used better accordingly. The second petition I address is the petition entitled “No Saving for Children, Youths, Families and Social Affairs”. In this respect, I refer to an OECD study from the spring of this year, which states that we spent and provided 2.15 percent of GDP on family benefits already in 2007. However, this OECD study also states that we have taken third place in an OECD-wide ranking of 33 states. I should like to quote some examples explicitly. We know that there is already the Free Kindergarten in many federal states and that there is also the mandatory last kindergarten year. For this, for example, the Federal Government provides €70 million to the legal guardian. In many federal countries, however, students can also consume the free semester ticket. The Federal Government itself has provided 47 benefits for families and young people, but also the countries and many municipalities provide further financial social benefits here. I would also like to mention that there has been a novelty since September of this year. The school book itself has fallen, not only for students in compulsory schools, but also for all. Therefore, there is a savings for all parents of students of say and write € 700 million per school year. Finally, I can neither express the hope that there will not be a comprehensive, general introduction of study fees in Austria – neither at colleges nor at universities. [[Call the ÖVP: At technical universities...!]] I think that this access to education must be financially accessible in the future and must not be a financial burden on the middle and lower incomes. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e19624	No one has been reported here in the word. I therefore conclude the debate. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We are now voting on the request of the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives to take note of its report 1277 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. [[20:24:34]] 4. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (1275, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Punciation Act 2000 (1400 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e19667	We're now on the 4th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Steindl spoke. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e19695	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! With this government template, the Punciation Act will be adopted in 2000 ....................................................................................................................... This change of law is about the first transfer of the agents of the Federal Ministry of Finance to the customs office in Vienna. The second and last instance is to be transferred to the Independent Administrative Senate in Vienna. A competence centre for punching control will be set up at the customs office in Vienna, which will include all punching control organs and the precious metal control laboratory. This competence centre will take over the registration of precious metal companies. The creation of a pooled and nationally responsible organisational unit is intended to increase the efficiency of puncture control. The uniformization of the service and professional supervision at the customs office of Vienna and the precious metal control laboratory reduces the corresponding friction losses and may also increase synergies. The existing sites of punching control as well as laboratories are maintained. This is important both for the economy and for consumers. The cost of punching checks will be paid as before by dealers and manufacturers of precious metal items. Ladies and gentlemen! Overall, I believe, the measures to make administrative processes and control activities more efficient. Finally, allow me to point out that, especially with Austrian jewelers, goldsmiths and dealers, we are sure that the precious metal and jewelry items contain the proportions corresponding to the punching. This is not always the case – and this is what our jewelers and goldsmiths always assure me – when jewelry is purchased internationally or on the Internet. That is why I appeal to you and to the consumers that, as far as possible, they get their jewelry from the Austrian goldsmiths, jewelers and dealers. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e19734	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Gartlehner. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e19755	Mr President. Estimated Secretary of State! I'll do it very briefly. I believe that it is a right decision to transfer this activity from the administration – into the customs authority. The customs authorities themselves are being upgraded by this, I am convinced. I believe that the development of the customs authorities in Austria – filled with new high-quality, very demanding activities – is thus further in line. We Socialists agree. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e19786	Next speaker: Mr Podgorschek. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e19836	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! I can only congratulate the fact that the first step towards administrative reform has now been taken, because the government has dared to impose on the social partners – against the Chamber of Commerce and against the Chamber of Workers – something that now brings a little savings. It's not much, but it's a little bit. If we continue at this pace, I could imagine that in 2030 we were about there that we had brought a big administrative reform behind us – but fun aside. Ladies and gentlemen! We will, of course, agree to the Puncing Act, because it really is a small step towards administrative reform. Unfortunately, the effects are relatively small, but Mrs Fekter said that she did not want to make the big throw in the administrative reform, but only progress in small steps – that was a small start. Only: Our problem – the budgetary problem – does not solve that. Even the Federal Minister has admitted in the last financial committee that the debt of 80 percent of GDP – and that is what we have at the end of the day; if we add the distributed areas, we already have far more than 80 percent – becomes dangerous. She also said – I still have a very good ear – then we get into a debt spiral. That is why I think it is very important for us to take appropriate measures, to take real administrative reform and also structural reform. Unfortunately, the Court of Auditors can say again and again what it wants, or the Austrian Convention has already made concrete proposals, and we have always discussed that from this point of view, but it is coming continuously – I am from Upper Austria and I know these discussions – this deadly argument, the people do not want it, the people lose their identity, and, and, and,. In reality – and this is what the ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP simply have to say and internalize – is about your positions of power, which you do not want to give up. [[Call to the ÖVP: In Vienna we have none!]] I understand it in part, but if even ÖVP mayors make concrete proposals in the Mühlviertel, that four communities should be united into one city – three are they?; the fourth is then the city of Aist – and then I see the resistance that exists in its own party, then I'm actually sorry. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: Three! Three!]] [[Call to the ÖVP:... Upper Austria...!]] - No, you already have to convince your party colleagues. The problem is – this is the least taken into account, and that is also the reason why I am so busy today in my speech – that this smallness of our communities leads to a disintegrating of our landscape. Take a look at how everything is displayed! The internal cities are being destroyed, and there is no reasonable commercial policy or settlement policy to be made. I ask the ÖVP once again that it will finally show a willingness to reform in this direction, because if the ÖVP had maintained this thinking, then Hernals and Ottakring would probably still be independent communities today. I must say that Lueger, the great Christian-social mayor of Vienna, was probably progressive in comparison to today's ÖVP.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e19896	Next speaker: Mr Huber. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e19953	Mr President. High house! At present, the entire audit of the puncture is solely with the Federal Minister for Finance. This is certainly a good regulation – and that is why we will agree – because it certainly makes sense to have a second instance. The only thing that would interest me is what happens to those officials in the ministry who have so far decided in second instance, because it is being transferred. Very briefly to the Committee meeting: I think you should think about it in the future. If such a financial committee sits together and meets and the ÖVP comes up with a completely new agenda that is not coordinated with the opposition, which simply comes up with it in secret – with regard to the European financial framework and liability – that the liabilities are increased from €15 billion to €21.6 billion, then this is something that should never happen again. I believe that the Federal Government is called upon – especially the government’s club members – to include the opposition early enough and to vote with it.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e19980	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Schickhofer. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e20002	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I think we are taking another important step in terms of greater efficiency in the administration with the Punciation Act. It's another step. We know that especially in the permeability of the employees, we have achieved a great deal in the Federal Ministry of Finance together with the Ministry of Defence and also a strong cooperation between Post and Telekom and the Federal Ministry of Finance. That is to say, we are increasing efficiency and we are using employees who may no longer necessarily be needed in this field, in the fight against undeclared work, in the fight against illegal gambling and in the fight against economic crime. I believe that this government is putting in place efficiency-enhancing measures in many areas and is thus able to achieve more with the same use of resources. To Mr Podgorschek: I am of course pleased, if you, as FPÖ, in the Styria, are taking part in the reform efforts. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] We have now managed to bring two districts into one district. We are in the process of negotiating a comprehensive community structural reform together. I believe that Mr Voves has assumed a great deal in the area of property taxation. We've achieved a lot. I hope that now a number of reformelans will be transferred to the ÖVP's parliamentary group by the head of state in charge Schützenhofer from 17 districts to seven regions in the new municipal structure, so that we can continue to focus on the small regions throughout the country, perhaps in the reform of the county's headquarters, and I remember the Schütthofer model. [[Abg. Steibl: But I will remember that!]] [[Abg. Steibl: Yes, yes! Whether they can be included, we'll look at that!]] I believe that this part has been very well done by Mr Voves on the revenue side. We have implemented €1.4 billion more in the asset sector – from our group. They want to be more and more efficient. If we take the Styria as an example – your national head office representative – we will implement it throughout the country, and we will see that we are becoming slimmer and more efficient everywhere, so that we can have more resources in the field of education, in the field of social security, but also in the field of economic promotion! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e20060	The next speaker was Mrs Bayr. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e20108	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Due to the financial crisis, among other things, the gold price also increases, and this precious metal becomes a more desirable asset. [[Interlocutory call to the ÖVP]] This also increases the pressure to promote more of it, and this also makes working conditions – at all the conditions under which it is promoted – worse and worse. I would like to give two examples: on the one hand, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, which is known to serve the proceeds of illegal gold to arm militias, that people should be dragged away and recruited into forced labour for the promotion of gold. They then stand up to the hips in the mud and do nothing but try to wash a few little gold grains out of the mud from sunrise to sunset. The profits flow into the pockets of Warlords, land on dark accounts in tax havens, and the UN embargo against the Democratic Republic of Congo is bypassed by the illegal transfer of the gold to Uganda's neighboring country, punctuated there and then transported to Europe. In fact, it took the approval of the Mining Ministry, but there is no such thing as ever. The second example: It is estimated that there are 15 000 to 30 000 gold producers in the Amazon region of Guyana – and that in the case of a total population of 230 000 people, this is an immense proportion. Although Guyana is actually part of France, so that French and European laws also apply, and the use of mercury would in fact be prohibited, mercury is very often used there in reality to gain gold – with very bad effects on the health of people who have to work with it, with effects also on groundwater and the environment. There are more malformations in newborns and other severe diseases, apart from the destruction of fauna and flora. Together with the illegal destruction of gold, prostitution, arms trafficking, drug crime, violence and much more. The Brazilian dealers on the other side of the border wash this gold again. In both cases, UN expert committees conclude that it would be important to develop a detection system so that the trace of the gold can be traced to the real origin. It needs legal proof, proof of origin for gold and other precious metals. I think that legislation such as the Punzierungsgesetz, but also the international treaty on the puncture of objects from precious metals, to which Austria joined in 1975, would certainly have the opportunity to become an initiative and a little towards legal proof, similar to that of the diamonds in the Kimberley process. The case is – to do, quite certainly, in the sense of a comprehensive and coherent development policy. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e20154	Mr Mag (S). — (FR) Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council. On behalf of the PPE Group, I should like to thank the Commissioner for his - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e20175	Mr President. High house! I would like to thank you very much for the debate on the punching law, especially because all the speakers in the debate have acknowledged that there is a step in administrative simplification here, by pooling and summarising at first instance at the customs office in Vienna, or in the second and last instance at the Independent Administrative Senate. I can also say that even if the employees involved in punching control are formally assigned to the customs office in Vienna in the future, the services in Linz, Salzburg and Graz remain, of course, in order to take account of consumer protection as well. It is only on the point raised by Mr Bayr. I do not think this can be directly regulated in this law, but in itself it is a reasonable proposal and it will also be taken with all those international bodies, where these points are discussed, whether such things can be considered in accordance with the UN report. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e20208	No one is reporting on this. I therefore conclude the debate. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 1275 of the supplements. This draft law is subject to a special standard production procedure, namely the notification requirement laid down in Directive 98/34/EC to the European Commission. The necessary notification procedure has been completed so that a decision-making of this draft law is permitted. I am therefore seeking the approval of those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who also wish to vote in third reading for a sign. – That too is unanimous. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[20:42:59]] 5. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (1331, e.g._Other Organiser Protocol and Additional Protocol between the Republic of Austria and the French Republic amending the Agreement between the Republic of Austria and the French Republic on 26 March. Agreements on the prevention of double taxation and tax prevention signed in Vienna in March 1993 circumvented in the areas of income and wealth taxes (1401, e.g.) 6. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (1332, e.g._Other Organiser Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Austria and the Government of the Republic of Kosovo on the promotion and protection of investment (1402, e.g.) 7. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (1333, e.g._Other Organiser Agreements on the promotion and mutual protection of investments between the Government of the Republic of Austria and the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan (1403 D.B.) 8. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (1334, e.g._Other Organiser Agreement between the Republic of Austria and the Republic of Tajikistan on the promotion and protection of investment (1404, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e20300	We now come to points 5 to 8 of the agenda, on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mr Magistrate has spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Haider. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e20327	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! I refer briefly to item 5: Report on the amendment of the Agreement with the French Republic on the prevention of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion, says tax evasion. Two years ago, with the help of the Green Group, the Austrian banking secret was thrown overboard, eroded, submerged, and it was a basis for such amendments to these agreements by no justification for the elucidation of the Austrian banking secret. That is why, although we are of course in favour of avoiding double taxation and preventing the tax evasion, we will remain true to our consistent line and will not agree because you are in favour of such decisions, and we will not tire to point out again and again that two years ago Austrian banking secrecy was thrown overboard. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Since the Secretary of State – if he is grateful to me for taking time to follow the debate – is present and the word “tax evasion” has already fallen, I would like to point out something to you, Mr State Secretary. [[State Secretary Mag. Arbitrator talks with a Member of the Government Bank]] If you've read the newspapers in the last few days, you've certainly come to know what Crédit Suisse, a Swiss bank, has done now. You remember, two years ago, a staff member of the Crédit Suisse sold a CD with 1 000 German tax sinners to the German Fiscus, and the German Fiscus then sued these tax evaders, who park the money in Switzerland, and drew them into account, but at the same time the Crédit Suisse also complained of aid for tax evasion. Now the Crédit Suisse has agreed to a payment of €150 million to terminate the proceedings with the Düsseldorf Procuratorate. This payment of €150 million is a debt admission of this bank, which also has two branches in Austria, and the German Minister of Finance has also announced that the Austrians on this CD are called the Austrian Fiscus. I therefore ask you: What did you do? Did you suisse the Crédit Suisse? Has Are you suing these Austrian tax evasioners to make them responsible? How do your negotiations with Crédit Suisse look? – I am already eager to answer my question, which I have tabled on this subject today.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e20384	The next speaker to speak was Mr Obernoster. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e20406	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Agenda item 5: Amendment of the double taxation agreement with France. . We know that the OECD countries have drawn up new directives in order to be able to deal more efficiently with tax crime, and we also know that this change is necessary. Austria has already concluded this double taxation agreement with some other countries. Why is it so important for France in particular? – After Germany, Italy, Switzerland and the USA, France is the fifth most important sales partner in the Austrian economy. Today, when the forecasts vote – almost € 2.6 billion were exported in the first half of the year – we will first exceed the 5 billion euro limit. Last year, in 2010, there was a trade surplus with France of €1.32 billion, and that is why this agreement is also necessary. To points 6, 7 and 8: Investment protection agreements with Kosovo, Kazakhstan and Tajikistan. Why is that so important? - We know these are hope markets. We know that these agreements also improve the political climate between states. And, of course, what's the most important thing: It is thus a protection built up for the companies that invest there in the form that they are semi-safe. This agreement makes it possible for companies to become active in these countries. We know Austria is an export country. We know how many jobs in Austria depend on exports. That is why these directives are important to ensure the Austrian economy, to safeguard jobs in Austria and that we can continue to be this country of export. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e20439	Next speaker: Mr Windholz. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e20462	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) High house! We will consistently refuse to approve Agenda item 5 of the Double Tax Agreement. We would like to point out once again that there is a written agreement, also signed by the two government parties, that the establishment of investigation committees will be a minority right, but we are still waiting for implementation. The signature is there, but the implementation is still missing, and that is why we will consistently express our protest here. In the rest of the agenda items that are being negotiated here, namely the TOPs 6 to 8, we will give our approval, as they seem very useful to us.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e20490	Mr Matznetter spoke as the next speaker. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e20511	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Unfortunately, double taxation agreements, of which we have recently decided on a number of occasions, repeatedly give the opportunity to see that there is here in this House a political group which does not support one of the most reasonable revisions, namely those on OECD standards, on a truly incomprehensible motive, because: Who do you want to “protect ”? I can only quote: In Austria, banking secrecy continues to apply, unhindered, without restrictions, without any changes. Nothing changes. Zero. No hinting. But for foreign perpetrators who park tax fraud here for money laundering reasons, so to speak, you don't want any cooperation. And in the case of Austrians and Austrians – mainly men – who have black money abroad and withdraw taxes, they do not want to give the Austrian financial administration a chance to do so in the information route. And what does that mean? – This is nothing but that you, as planned, want to maintain a protection system, that certain people do not have to pay a tax that is the same for all, while at the same time we have the highest tax rates for workers and employees and small self-employed. This one doesn't ask human beings whether they want to pay or not. It is suddenly not important for you to transfer the entire payroll data at the end of the year. This is not important to you, but in your opinion the oligarch of somewhere should have his black money and not have to provide any information. I really can't understand your position. And that will also bring you difficulties in the election campaign. Therefore: Think about it! Join us to do something to make it more decent in our country. Austria, according to some countries, is in the so-called "Schmuddelecke", and we are always called together with tax havens and so on. Therefore: Let's see we get out of here! And written to you in the main book: Get in there! – I hope you will remember, Dr. Fichtenbauer; that is not so long. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Fichtenbauer.]] As far as the investment protection agreement is concerned – we will decide today – I would like to point out: There is a positive part, which Mr Obernoster has already mentioned here. There is protection for our investments, especially in the case of jurisdiction there, but do not be deceived, ladies and gentlemen: The majority of the proceedings under such agreements now concern Western industrialized states, with what is otherwise regulated by a legal order being taken by corporations to enforce compensation payments through arbitration. This is therefore not quite unheious – and therefore also my appeal to the Secretary of State to act very carefully so that we do not get into the following situation: We defend our system of general care in the EU directives, but we may have a situation that is not the best by means of investment protection agreements. In this sense: So good rules – and thank you, Secretary of State, for the speed of these agreements, this “fifty-sheet” which some have held out to us that we would only conclude twelve anyway, has not entered into force, but that we really have a broad network now. Thank you very much for this work, which is done well by your house. Thank you, of course, also to the officials, because this is an extremely difficult work to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e20581	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Stadler. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e20603	Mr President. High house! My previous speaker has now prompted me to say a few things about Austrian banking. First of all, ladies and gentlemen: Did you know – with my colleague Matznetter I am not so sure – that you are so-called PEPs? Since yesterday, when I saw that on TV, I know that now, but I had to figure out what a PEP is. So all of us in here are PEPs. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] – Did you know you were a PEP? Paula – Emil – Paula. Not that you misunderstand. [[Call:PEP, not Depp]] A PEP is therefore someone who has a public office, and that includes parliamentarians. All accounts of all parliamentarians, including all spouses, all life partners, all children of these PEPs, all spouses of the children of these PEPs, all partners of the children of these PEPs and of the parents, as well as all knownly related persons of PEPs, including persons in other close business relationships, that is, all of us parliamentary staff, are subject to full control by the banks regarding increased suspicion of money laundering and terrorist activity. These accounts are ongoing – and there is no need for suspicion, but there is sufficient “founded acceptance” – in accordance with § 41 of the Banking Act, to report to the Federal Criminal Office on money laundering matters. Ladies and gentlemen, did you know that? Did you all know that? I didn't know. Last night I watched that on TV. And then I read that then the Federal Criminal Office would have the task of immediately informing the corresponding PEP or the parents, partners, their partners and so on; so to speak, all relatives. Ladies and gentlemen, the question is: What is that immunity, Madam President? And it is also true that Mr Scheibner has only learned by reporting on the request of the public prosecutor to the Parliamentary Directorate that he was traded as PEP, although the law states that a person concerned must be informed immediately. This is not an accusation to you, Madam President, but I would just like to tell you that this Parliament is adopting laws with which we are making ourselves potential criminals, just because all of this seemed necessary in relation to 9/11. Oh, sure! Since then, you can do whatever you want in the country. But by the way, this is not just the case with us, because the whole thing is based on an EU directive. And then the authority says: We don't care about that, and we didn't understand that! Immunity of a Member of Parliament? – We don't care! – The problem of immunity is not at all found in the Banking Act in relation to PEPs that have immunity. I would just like to say to you, Mr Matznetter, that what you have previously related to the double taxation agreement and the voting behaviour of the FPÖ has nothing to do with what you then gave as a reason. Why the FPÖ is doing this, perhaps someone else will explain it here, but the reason you, Mr Matznetter, are referring to the FPÖ, so to speak, that the money-laundering companies are supposed to be protected, is not at all right. On the contrary: We all here as PEPs are potential money washers and terrorist money providers! And how fast this is, we have seen the Scheibner colleague. The Raiffeisen bank goes here – that is why I say once again, I am glad that I do not have an account at Raiffeisen – and once again discovers at the “PEP Scheibner” a reasonable assumption that money laundering could be available. Mr Scheibner explained everything to the bank, but he reported it to the Federal Criminal Office. And the Federal Criminal Office doesn't tell Scheibner that he was being traded. He is only aware of this after this request has been received from the Directorate of Parliament. However, this Raiffeisen bank has seen no reason to suspect money laundering at the PEP Strasser. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] - I only replicate on you. Mr Matznetter, you are so important to me with what you are saying here so “smooth” that I have to explain to you what it really is. You didn't check that. Although they have agreed to this law, they have not overturned it. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] You, Mr Matznetter, have not convinced that you are suspected of being a PEP in terrorist and money laundering. And that can happen to you at any time. Tomorrow, for example, someone can claim that the Member and State Secretary had been out of service, so pledged a super-PEP, money laundering. Then there is a desire for extradition – and the colleague Matznetter does not even know, although the information about it needs to be provided in accordance with law. Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to tell you what is possible in this state. Do not talk about it, Mr Matznetter, that it should protect anyone, because this 'protection' is used to take action against individual Members! And you can prove this on the basis of the case of discs. Ladies and gentlemen, the same bank did not have any money-laundering suspicions on Mr Strasser's accounts, where there would have been a million-height suspicion. Unique! Of course, it is clear, purely “at random”: One PEP is a black PEP and the other PEP is just an orange PEP, and that is why the world is different, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] So much to your PEP system that you defend yourself here today. [[President Mag. Prammer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Ladies and gentlemen, these are the reasons why we distrust you. These are the reasons why we say that the abuse of power is as it is already presented in the law.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e20688	Mrs Mag. Schwentner is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e20710	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I can only agree with Mr Matznetter that an investment protection agreement can be a delicate one. We have discussed this recently in a very wide-ranging event. There are many points you have to look at and take into account, and they have been mentioned. We also know that there will soon be EU-wide multilateral agreements. Nevertheless, we have agreed to this bilateral agreement with Kosovo, not least because we see it as a positive sign of Austria's foreign policy towards Kosovo, which is not recognised by all countries, including not all EU countries, even by all WTO countries. Nevertheless, I would like to say that it is a bit ambivalent, on the one hand, to support the investment protection agreements – all five parties are now doing so, as far as I have now understood – but on the other hand – and I think this is more essential as far as Kosovo is concerned – for example, the expansion of the judicial system in which we were involved is now slowing down over time. In the meantime, the last Austrian judge in Kosovo has been withdrawn. I think it is a problem that Austria's commitment to justice and democracy is increasingly being reduced. We should look not only at investment but also at our task in relation to democracy and justice in Kosovo. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e20743	Mr. State Secretary Mag. Arbitrators now speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e20764	Madam President. High house! On the subject of double taxation agreements, the renewal of the double taxation agreement with France that has already been concluded: As has rightly been said, it is about the implementation of the renewed OECD standards in terms of transparency and willingness to provide assistance. It is not a question of evading banking secrecy with regard to Austrian citizens. However, this is an important element for sustainable economic relations, as well as investment protection agreements. An example: In the first quarter of the present year Exports from Austrian companies to France increased by 18 percent per year. Of course, double taxation agreements within the European Union do not have the importance they sometimes have outside the European Union, because they provide a wide range of stable legal frameworks, but are an important and reliable part. Investment protection agreements are another building block in a chain of stable relations and essentially ensure two things, namely fair treatment of Austrian investors abroad, which is important, because if you decide to use money and know-how abroad as an Austrian company, you also want sustainable, stable relationships. This also puts economic relations on safe legs and deepens them. Today, several of these agreements are on the agenda. One concerns Central Asia, an extremely exciting market. Economic relations there depend on the commitment of both sides. In connection with the DBA talks in Tajikistan and Kazakhstan and the EBRD meeting, I also noted how important these trade relations are for Austria and what interest there is in the area. For example, Kazakhstan is the most stable and prosperous country in this Central Asian region. And we have a bilateral trade volume, which for the first time exceeded the one-billion limit in 2007. 50 Austrian companies also have branches or representations in this country. Tajikistan is not yet as important as Kazakhstan. In 2009 we had exports of 2.8 million and imports of 1.5 million, but we have great opportunities in this country, because the topics discussed there are infrastructure, hydropower and related to the whole energy issue. These are the areas in which Austrian companies have a special know-how. For a number of reasons, I think Kosovo is important, because the Balkans, on our doorstep, are an important economic area and trade relations between Austria and this area can and do contribute to stability in this region. This is why the Investment Protection Agreement is particularly important for Kosovo because of its neighbouring situation, both politically and economically. I am also pleased that I have been able to draw your contributions to the debate that the majority in this House are in favour of the decisions.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e20816	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Gaßner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e20837	Madam President. Mr State Secretary, thank you very much for explaining these investment protection agreements to the fullest extent and much better than I could. It's nothing more to add to it. If one reads through the introduction to this investment protection agreement, one can see that it is the point of reference that decent working conditions are to be created. This is about respect for human rights – in Tajikistan this will be a problem – and minimum labour standards must be respected. Then I found something quite exciting, namely: It is stressed that "the need for all governments and civil actors to be equal There are measures to comply with international anti-corruption efforts, especially the United Nations Convention against Corruption”. If you look at the discussion of the last days and today, I think Austria has a lot to do to fulfil this Treaty. Ladies and gentlemen, it was in the discussion that we were again talking about community alliances. Mr Podgorschek said that there are four communities, we have only three communities in the Mühlviertel district. But I can tell you something about this: Indeed, the industrial association is very much in favour of bringing these communities together. It's okay. If they want, it's good. Only by examining a Linz university professor, who is based on completely false figures. This professor takes the quota, the yield share ratio per capita from 2006, multiplying it with the 11 000 inhabitants of the combined communities and there comes to good 2 million surplus yield for this new city. But if he takes the 2009 yield rate, it is only more than 200 000 more yield, and then I look at what remains of these 200 000 when you calculate the combination with all the drums and dran. I am glad that this project is going so well in Styria, Mr Schickhofer. It's all right. Only one – and on the other hand, as long as I can: This cannot be forced, it must still remain the case of those concerned!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e20885	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e20907	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Today's agenda deals, among other things, with three agreements on the promotion and mutual protection of investment between the Government of the Republic of Austria and the Republics of Kosovo, Kazakhstan and Tajikistan. The aim of these agreements is to support Austrian companies in foreign investment. The aim of these agreements is also to develop bilateral economic relations. The three agreements still to be concluded today complete the fifth dozen of such agreements, which also form the basis for investment in Austria, which serves legal certainty as well as the protection of the environment, safety and employment. Procedures for expropriation, compensation and dispute resolution shall also be laid down. In this context, it should be noted that SMEs are increasingly becoming active in the issue of cross-border investment. Moreover, the effects of employment are also positive: on the one hand, in connection with rising direct investment, but not only on investment, but also on exports, especially as exports often increase with increasing direct investment. In total: good for business and employment. That is why we will agree to this agreement – and I can invite you all to do so.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e20946	Mr Linder is speaking next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e20967	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Dear ladies, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Matznetter is not here now, yet I tell him: We certainly do not vote against this double taxation agreement, because we want to protect any black money washers or anyone else, because you - we have already heard from Mr Stadler - have good opportunities to check accounts; and I am convinced that you do the same. – That is obviously so; I am a little surprised myself. At any rate, we are in favour of the agreements on the promotion and protection of investment with the Republic of Kosovo, the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Republic of Tajikistan. We believe that this is a right and important way to promote external trade relations and to protect businesses investing in these countries and thus support exports. However, I would like to see the same protection and the same help given to Austrian businesses, especially small businesses, because, ladies and gentlemen, after this difficult summer season, the small gastronomy companies have to fight with enormous problems. At the moment, the mood in these farms is just on the ground. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] – We had a very bad season. And by the way, only minus numbers since 2009. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Hörl.]] You know why? – Because we have had a black tourist reference since 2009, so only minus numbers. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Economic data are really bad in this area. We would therefore expect these small businesses to be given assistance, if not financially, at least in terms of reducing bureaucracy and all the many conditions. We need small businesses to maintain the diversity of Austrian gastronomy, and we must avoid that it is only going in the direction of system gastronomy. We need this variety of Austrian gastronomy companies, especially as far as tourism is concerned. Let us show the domestic companies that we are just as behind them as are those companies exporting abroad!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e21035	No one has been reported here in the word. The debate is closed. The rapporteurs do not wish to conclude. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we shall vote on the request of the Financial Committee, the conclusion of the State Treaty in question: Protocol and Additional Protocol between the Republic of Austria and the French Republic amending the Agreement between the Republic of Austria and the French Republic on 26 March. In March 1993 in Vienna, agreements were signed to avoid double taxation and to prevent tax evasion in the areas of income taxes and assets in 1331 of the supplements in accordance with Article 50(1). 1 C. 1 Federal Constitutional Act to grant approval. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to do so to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall also vote on the request made by the Financial Committee, the conclusion of the State Treaty in question: Agreements between the Government of the Republic of Austria and the Government of the Republic of Kosovo on the promotion and protection of investment in 1332 of the supplements referred to in Article 50(1). 1 C. 1 B-VG to be authorised. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to do so to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request within the meaning of Article 49. 2 of the Federal Constitutional Act that the Albanian and Serbian language version of this State Treaty, in accordance with Article 49(1). 2 B-VG should be made known by giving rise to public consultation in the Federal Ministry of European and International Affairs. Whoever gives his consent, I ask for a sign to be given the same. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request of the Financial Committee, the conclusion of the present State Treaty: Agreements on the promotion and mutual protection of investments between the Government of the Republic of Austria and the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan in 1333 of the Supplements in accordance with Article 50(1). 1 C. 1 B-VG to be authorised. Whoever gives his consent, I ask for a sign to be given the same. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall also vote on the request of the Financial Committee, the conclusion of the State Treaty in force: Agreements between the Republic of Austria and the Republic of Tajikistan on the promotion and protection of investment in 1334 of the supplements referred to in Article 50(l). 1 C. 1 B-VG to be authorised. Whoever gives his consent, I ask for an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. Finally, we shall proceed to the vote on the request within the meaning of Article 49. 2 B-VG that the Tajik language version of this State Treaty in accordance with Article 49(b) of the Treaty. 2 B-VG is to be made known as a public consultation in the Federal Ministry of European and International Affairs. Whoever gives his consent, I ask for a sign to be given the same. – This is unanimously accepted. [[21:16:31]] 9. Point First reading: Request by Mr Otto Pendl, Mr Mag. Heribert Donnerbauer, Dr. Peter Fichtenbauer, Dieter Brosz, MSc, colleagues concerning a federal law amending the Federal Law on the Rules of Procedure of the National Council (Reg. Act 1975) (1618/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e21145	We're now on the 9th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. The applicant comes first with Mr Pendl. I'll set the clock up to 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e21174	Madam President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Allow me, first of all, to thank all the political groups for having spent a very long period of time in this working group, because the discussion in this working group was really targeted, and we have, even if it has taken a long time, achieved a unanimous solution with a common request. [[Demonstratetive applause by ODP MPs]] In addition to a dispute, we have tried with this proposal to abolish the ever-increasing non-professional immunity and to reorganise the objective immunity, so to speak, and to extend it. The same is true of the introduction of so-called Parliamentary secrets or of prohibitions of investigation for preparatory work in connection with parliamentary activities. However, since this is not just the case with the House, after a longer discussion, it is considered that a committee opinion should be carried out in this context. From this we have gained some knowledge. In any case, I'm convinced: If, as we have done in recent weeks and months, we strongly accept this issue, then there will certainly be further useful suggestions. To this end: I think you can discuss the number of people. However, I also believe that if credit-damaging behaviour occurs, we need to discuss it further. This has also given us numerous professionals along the way. My request and invitation to all political groups – we still have time, we have already planned committee dates – will finally be positive in the autumn of this year. I would really invite you and ask you to try everything we can, and I think we all wanted it from home anyway. In this sense: We're there, as I mean, on a good path, and I'm convinced that we're going to be able to do this this this very day. In any case, I would like to invite you very cordially.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e21221	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Donnerbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e21242	Madam President. High house! I can only underline everything my previous speaker said. He has presented this very correctly, and I believe that we can also be confident that we will reach a conclusion very quickly in the next few weeks, although it is clear that we are, of course, once again discussing the concerns, the points that have been critically noted even now in the context of the review process, and in any case also there and there. I believe that it is not possible to go beyond this, both from science and from practice, especially from the law, for example. Barber's Chamber of Advocates, concerns are expressed that there are effects which, I believe, we all do not wish, namely, that clearly non-supporting practices – slanderous claims or similar things – by doing them in any form here in the House in the future – not only by a speech in plenary, but also by a request or by other means of making them a negotiating subject here. I believe that this is a point that we simply have to look at once again: whether there are any effects that we do not want. I believe that this work should be carried out, that we will deal with it in the next few weeks and that the opinions will simply be taken critically again, and then, I believe, we will find a good solution to a re-regulation of parliamentary immunity. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e21281	Mr Fichtenbauer has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e21303	Madam President. High house! Only from the fact that critical statements, which sometimes go so far as not to want the instrument of immunity at all, should not be given cold feet. What has been developed in the working group is well thought-out and well-balanced. It is also to be remembered – this is also written by the Ministry of Justice – that the right of immunity is primarily not a subjective right of the Member, but an outflow of popular sovereignty: that the elected representative in the representation of the people has to speak freely and without hindrance or to present his case. The fact that in future what we have said in the House can be repeated without penalty is not due to the literal interpretation of Article 57, but to a judicture of the Supreme Court, which is actually moving away from the word of the law, so that it is reasonable to return to the original text if another person, who has said what another has said, is free from punishment, because truthfully, truthfully, can report: What the honourable Member himself has said, he can also repeat Penalty-free outside the house, so that the proper reproduction of a content made in the house should be subject to immunity. Not to be forgotten is that a large part of the right of immunity is missing, namely the so-called non-professional immunity, and the matter is reduced only to the objective immunity, although taking into account modern requirements, of course, with the extension of the means of communication and to the level of staff. A little bit makes me hesitate, because what Mr Stadler mentioned, I heard for the first time yesterday: that we as PEPs have become a special class and there we have developed under the surface a termite building which is affected by a tendency to criminalise or by the willingness that PEPs, persons of exposed political position, must be particularly observed and subject to special surveillance. So, I have not, so far, imagined the rule of law, so that I would actually have to think of it or remember that we have been enriched with the present draft, which, of course, has been followed by opinions that we will consider, or in the light of yesterday's opinions, Rethinking an official's statement in "time in the picture" that PEPs are Peps. I am not ready to be a suspect just because I work in the House as a free-elected Member to be a suspect in principle, along with a family. I don't think anyone in this house wants that.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e21348	Mr Brosz has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e21369	Madam President. High house! What is on the table today is a part of the proposed change in immunity, the part where the Rules of Procedure are concerned. This is relatively undisputed and has actually not included the delicate points to which the opinion procedure referred. These are the constitutional provisions that we will discuss on another occasion. I was already quite surprised at the way this discussion has been held during the whole opinion process and during the public debate over the last few days. I would just like to remind you of what was the starting point for the considerations. The starting point for considering the issue of immunity was from our point of view – and I think there has been broad agreement in the working group – that there have been serious shortcomings in the interpretation of immunity law by the judiciary – and that was also the outcome of the investigation committee. Now, of course, you can say: Why do you have to change the law if they are, in part, illegal? You could try to do that differently! – But: Not all things, has shown themselves, were illegal, but there are also gaps. I would like to address this again, and I would also like to make it clear where the weaknesses have existed from our point of view. In current immunity law, we have also provided for the fact that it is not necessary to make extradition desires if there is obviously no link to political activity. But what happened in practice? – Completely contends whether there has been a connection or not, the court has basically made extradition requests. There were cases in there – I don't want to call names, that's not what it's all about now, but: As the suspicion of incitement to a murder has to be related to political activity, justice has never tried to explain either. We have had cases where witness statements have come from a committee of inquiry, where a private company of a Member from a country day has been involved. There seems to be someone in justice there, perhaps there could be a connection. So we had a lot of extradition desires that would not have actually been in this house. - Point one. Point two: Just where it has become delicate, in many cases where parliamentary immunity has been touched in the core, has been determined – without information and in extremely delicate cases; I want to name it. This has affected almost all areas. Case one: Subject-matter immunity, right of truthful reporting. Classical case: Speech by Mr Westenthal at a special meeting of the BZÖ. The press service of the BZÖ reflects this speech in the press service – a classic case which is covered by immunity law. What's the prosecutor doing? - She found out. It also further points out on the basis of statement and tries to find out: Well, we can't interest the Westenthaler, but now we'll find out who wrote this press release of the BZÖ club! – The classical form of parliamentary immunity in the sense of objective immunity, but justice was completely wreaked. That is then, I think, not because they failed to hire it, but because it did not really lead to results that they found out who wrote it. But from our point of view, this is a classic abuse, a clearly illegal procedure. Case two of the illegal procedure, from my point of view the most delicate point of view: the attempt to seize the Pilz laptop in the Causa Strasser e-mails. That, I think, has to be broken on the tongue: Strasser responded to the publication of fungus and said: A moment when the fungus got the e-mails, she must have surrendered to anyone – that is to say, suspicion of abuse of office! That's where we have to sort of find out. Strasser writes an ad, the ad is taken over by word, and there is a process of justice, where exactly this desire, namely the idea of Strasser to seize the laptop of fungus, is actually granted. [[Abg. May. Stadler: One to one!]] One to one, literally taken over. And this point, I think, really needs to be broken on the tongue. I would also like to carry it out here because this public debate continues and no one from the legal scientists who have been criticised here has addressed these delicate cases. And I'm already asking: If parliamentary control is disadvantaged, will it be suppressed if informants have to assume that the information they pass on to Members may appear in those laptops where Members' documents are seized and the informants fly? And whoever, as a judicial expert and as a legal scientist – I am right, Mr. Fichtenbauer – does not somehow even make alarm bells ring, I think, should also ask whether immunity promotes or not. In this context, one could also have said: It's illegal! Why do you need to change the law? But it will be complicated, because what has not been protected so far becomes clear: If one does not come to the Member of Parliament Pilz or to his laptop, he probably has staff, and these employees probably have the documents somewhere – and that is not protected now. This procedure, namely to say that I am not getting it from the honourable Member, but I am getting it over the staff, which is possible under the current rules. And I have already asked whether it is not reasonable to strengthen parliamentary immunity by protecting the core area of parliamentary detection and giving this opportunity to justice. From our point of view, a clear yes. Third case – even in our view, it has been a clear abuse, but the regulation is now making it clearer – the case of Haidinger in the Committee on the Interior. Haidinger – also known – has appeared in the Committee on the Interior. There were ORF images – this is how the procedure went; by the way, this is all reflected in the Committee on Inquiry's final report, in several reports, including in our report, in other words in the parliamentary documents. We can then read in this desire, we have seen in the television pictures how Mr Haidinger and the Member of Parliament Pilz entered the hall. From this joint entry of the hall, it was then concluded that Mr Pilz quoted things in the committee that he could only get from Mr Haidinger, so there was probably abuse of power in the game. And the suspect was, Mr. Pilz has inspired Mr. Haidinger to abuse his office. And so did the investigations: Suspicion of the instigation for abuse of office. In this case... – Listen now [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] You know, maybe that'd be better! [[Abg. Wöginger: Now you've been talking alone all the time!]] That is what we agreed on in the Committee on Immunities. In this case, it has continued to be so that a desire for extradition has been made against Mr Pilz. This demand for extradition has not been accepted. And what did the justice do? – She heard him as a witness, under the duty of truth, because the demand for extradition was so to speak not accepted as an accuser. And now we are talking about these abuses that have occurred here in the judicial system and have been the cause of the reflections on the re-regulation of immunity law. I think there's a lot to it and we need a change here. Now I am with Mr Pendl: You can see in individual points whether there are better formulations. It has been said that things have been drawn from my point of view to the hair, for example, that one should no longer be determined if there is a bomb threat because Members are somehow affected by it. Whoever reads the law sees in the explanations that in the case of a rather delicate case, namely the theft of laptops from MPs, where all the documents are on it, it is explicitly stated that this can be determined – although the core area may also be affected: when the laptop is gone, Hekles can be on it. So, if you say you can't figure out in extortion, you can – how was that? – in the event of bomb threats, it's mysterious to me. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Donnerbauer.]] But it's not inside. – You can read the law; we have signed it together, too, and I suppose we know what is inside: that by the way, exactly those acts are excluded from non-examination, where there will now be new rules on corruption. In all these cases, it is now in the law that it can be determined explicitly. So from me we can make it even clearer. I am concerned only with paying attention to what the intention is, and I am still sharing it, and we should remain on it as well. Let me come to a last one where the second point is actually concerned. There were three major criticisms. The first point was, as has been said, this form of non-examination. [[Abg. Wöginger: That's a speech!]] The second major point was the accusation of abuse of parliamentary immunity. To make this clear again: It is then claimed that the innocent citizen can no longer defend himself if Members make repeated accusations in the public. What is the case now? – Parliamentary speech here, parliamentary questions, parliamentary requests are full of immunity, civil law and criminal law. Every Member may, in accordance with the current immunity rule, claim that things are in plenary session again and again, he may repeat them on questions. It is protected by truthful reporting. Every medium in Austria, every homepage, every press service, any other MP can report what has been done in the House – this is covered by parliamentary immunity. The only thing that is not included now is that the honourable Member himself, as a person himself, repeats the same things he says here. I would just like to say once what the consideration was. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pendl.]] Yeah, it's a lot more wilder in there now. How does it work when television interviews are made? – The ORF cuts beautifully, gets the stories, can take them from the speaker's desk. If a private medium insists that this is an interesting story and says to the honourable Member: Go, you can tell me... – Yes, then “it will come, ” of course! Wheeler, great! Don't cover, don't go! [[Abg. Riedler: Then let him come here!]] It's all right! That's what we know about the wheeler. [[Abg. Wöger: What does that mean?]] If the point is that the private medium is coming and says: Go, can you say what you said in the plenary in front of the camera again?, and the honourable Member says exactly what he said here from the speaker's desk, because in front of the door in the coloir, then it is not covered by immunity. And that's where you have to ask the question if that makes sense. That's exactly where it's going. I'm just saying, If you want to prevent abuse, you have to abolish parliamentary immunity entirely. On the other hand, it is the form of how information can be protected. This is a balance of interest. It can be said from me that in delicate cases, such as a accusation of slander – which has never occurred in this House under criminal law; I do not know a single case of immunity where it has been about slander – which is otherwise handled. Should be! But do you know where it appeared? - In the case of evil renunciation. And do you know who the biggest complainant in this house has been for years? - Karl-Heinz Grasser. Karl-Heinz Grasser has shed massively discovering Members with complaints, she has sued civil law, has caused procedural risks of, in the case of Kogler, well over 100 000 €. Rumpold has caused process risks of more than €200 000 in cases where, I believe, it can be proved that Parliamentary Enlightenment has been carried out here. [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: Did you vote? Did it turn out it was true?]] Most cases, by the way, we have won. [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: Then it fits eh!]] But that's an interesting point! It's good that we've had a little speaking time left today; we've got some aftertaste. But you know what the point is: What's going on? – Mr Moser is sitting there, and you can ask Mr Moser how these cases are going. Who of the Members will get the documents in case of delicate cases, corruption cases, abuses in the ministries, in all cases, so that it is documented, where it is only necessary to copy the documents, so that they can continue and give them to the prosecutor, and then they can find out? What happens is that information flows, and that the parliamentary right to interpolate, the right to question, is precisely there to check this information in order to be able to ask the questions, where the ministers will then think well, they say the truth or not. And look, in the Telekom case, at what has been done there in the questions put by Mrs Moser on information and where it has now become clear why the proceedings have been conducted. [[Abg. Wookers: In there!]] That's exactly the point! And outside Parliament, can she not say anything about it because it's inside? Should we protect Mr Grasser? Should we protect Mr Strasser so that he can, as far as possible, present complaints to the parliamentarians in order to threaten them existentally in order to prevent them from being informed? – This is the question we should discuss. I am very much in favour of continuing the discussion, but that we maintain the broad guidelines of these proposals, because it strengthens parliamentary control, protects them, and because it is a sensible measure to make parliamentary control viable.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e21545	Mr Mag. Stadler is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e21567	It is already remarkable, High House, if you take a little note of the calls from the ÖVP on this subject. You don't want any information – it's always been like that – of course not! There is no political group in this House that is so hostile as the EIA! That's the way it is. That's an experience, we know that! That's why I have no hope at all. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] And then you come out, Mr. Donnerbauer, and say that the Ministry of Justice has objections. That's great! That's where I expected it! – The Ministry of Justice did not have any concerns about breaking constitutional law, nor did it have any concerns about disregarding the media law when they wanted to take action against BZÖ employees. [[Call the ÖVP: Oh!]] You have tried to cover this for a while in committee. Who said, “Oh!”? – It is only employees of the BZÖ, there it is meat for the ÖVP! But woe, if a black man is affected, then howl! The Lord Strasser – you have protected him for years, your grass; Straster, Grasser, everyone! Now, when it comes to finding out what's really behind it, you're all coming and saying: Oh, my God, we never believed that! We would never have believed that! How would it have been discovered if these people had been allowed to cover the decks with complaints – with the money they had previously invested as bribery money? How? – We do not have the money at our disposal that people have put in their pockets in certain procurement operations to accuse Members. That would be the square of the Chuzpe, that before one takes a money and then condemns the honourable Member with the money, who tries to reveal it! - That's how we're going to come! This is your world, not ours. They will have to note that parliamentaryism is developing independently of the Austrian People's Party. Parliamentaryism means: Enlightenment, control. This is modern parliamentaryism, and it will not be able to stop the EIA, ladies and gentlemen, the High House! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] And here I also purchase that one has to put on the hind feet when a black bank is trying against an orange MP, an evil bill... [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer:... a citizen caught! Don't do anything!]] Yeah, yeah, exactly the Raiffeisen party, it's getting up the most. No bank has several MEPs in a parliament – Raiffeisen already! No bank apparatus, this crack, has such a media power as Raiffeisen – Raiffeisen already! No bank has come up with the idea of deliberately expressing suspicions against an opposition politician while at the same time ignoring all money laundering operations at Raiffeisen's accounts with an ex-minister or several ex-ministers – Raiffeisen already! The fact that this is a random black and the other is just oppositional is probably pure coincidence. Typically ÖVP, I think, ladies and gentlemen! That is why I warn you, ladies and gentlemen, of the SPÖ to take into account the concerns of the EIA in any way. The previous handling of immunity has shown the following, and I can illustrate it to you on the basis of the Huber case and the Stadler case. For months there have been no further investigation of the prosecutor's office, but no charges either. Today I asked an employee of the Minister how long this is going on, what is happening now. – Delivery desires, no political context, huge media coverage, then it is determined – and then it turns out, it's nothing, so you don't charge, but you don't stop either. We shall put in a parliamentary question, we have already announced this to this employee. For months nothing is to be done, because unfortunately there is no charge against the misguided representatives of the opposition. – This is your Ministry of Justice, which is now supposed to have the major concerns about our immunity proposals? This Ministry of Justice is hostile to this House, ladies and gentlemen! I don't want you to overlook that. This Ministry of Justice is trying to make policy against individual political groups, and we will not allow that to happen. I tell you in no uncertain terms, I asked the prosecutors, but to make an accusation, but to make a main trial. In the meantime, it has been found that Mr Pleischl has made sure that a procedure against me takes place. You know why? At the meeting in Kössen by the way, Mr Donnerbauer, he dropped his pants, he said why. – Because I treated him so badly in the investigation committee, he said. He's never seen anything like it before. Besides, he said, I suspected another prosecutor that she was taking part in a conservative meeting. This conspirative meeting has served to think in a SPÖ law firm about how to accommodate more red judges because there are supposed to be too many blue judges in the court. – So if this was a meeting of the little gardeners, I don't know! Of course, this was a conspirative meeting where one tries to get a state power under party political control. The man denied that. He said it was nothing. – That's the justice you claim to have concerns about what we're doing here? Ladies and gentlemen! In order to provide information to ensure democratic control, I will ask the last and worst address, namely the Ministry of Justice. There we must finally note that the activities and inactivity of the Public Prosecutor's Office must also be subject to parliamentary control, ladies and gentlemen, the High House! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That is why I say, on an immunity that ultimately affects the honourable Member, because it is pointless to make extraditional requests formulated far away from the legal situation, only to bring about a media report to harm the honourable Member, because it does not bring an accusation, I and my whole group are prepared to do so, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Reduce immunity to objective immunity, but do it in such a way that at the end it is not the informant of the stupid that one does not cross the little citizen! Make sure that the honourable Member is able to talk about what he has presented here in the House or what he has put in motions, outside, too! That's reasonable, that's modern, and that serves to clarify and, at least, not those who have much to hide and cover up.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e21646	Mr Dr. Strutz has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e21668	Madam President. High house! In that respect, Parliamentary Stadler is right to find in this draft law – including from my point of view – certain vague formulations, such as the notion of the abolition of non-professional immunity, which in principle leads politicians to be seen in the public as potential suspects, as the colleague Fichtenbauer so aptly stated. It is clear to me – and I would remind you this in the context of the Rules of Procedure debate – that today we are not inseparably discussing the concept of immunity as a certain privilege, a right that is necessary in order to show, eliminate, make public. In addition to the rights that politicians have, the obligations must also be clearly defined, because only in this way the framework conditions for parliamentarians are clearly regulated, so that the public does not lead as a potential suspect. A potential suspect is – if one generalizes the debate over the past few weeks – anyone who, in addition to his parliamentary activity, also pursues the pursuit of a profession. That is why I believe that the concept of non-professional immunity is also a false one. Most of you do not sit here as a major professional politician – I do not wish to do so – but have a function, and there is also a certain political protection for this function. I have been following the press reports on the secret business of our parliamentarians yesterday. In principle, anyone who, in addition to his political function, still has a profession is suspicious. Especially suspicious are the self-employed. This can be read in public as follows: 138 out of 183 delegates have a side job. So I don't have a side job. Many other lawyers, self-employed persons who hold a mandate here, will not feel that their profession is considered a secondary job, the amount of income is so to speak hidden; whether the lawyer is Jarolim, who then suddenly says that his clients are not known whether the colleague is Cortolezis, who is in principle obliged to hide their customers, whether they are lawyers or whether they are lawyers. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim:... you comedian! That must not be true!]] [[Abg. Amon: Why? That's right!]] [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: That's absurd!]] [[Abg. Amon: He's right!]] Mr Jarolim, I think you have not listened properly now. - Okay, call back. What I would like to say is that Members must also be clear about their duties. May we, in addition to our political activity, exercise a profession? If so, what is disclosure? Should the customer data be disclosed, the income should be disclosed? – This is a legal uncertainty that in reality does not make the exercise of our profession easy. I believe that as long as we have not clearly defined our obligations on the one hand, we do not need to discuss the extension of the rights for so long. That is why I urge those working groups that have been used to clarify the question of lobbying activities, because the law of incompatibility is clearly regulated in parallel with the immunity rules, otherwise we will continue to be held in the public as principal suspects or potential perpetrators, and I do not want to have that.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e21744	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. I accept Amendment No 1618/A to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. [[21:48:39]] 10. Point First reading: Parliament's motion for a resolution (Doc. Christine Muttonen, Fritz Neugebauer, Dr. Alexander Van der Bellen, colleagues and colleagues concerning a federal law amending the Federal Law on the Rules of Procedure of the National Council (Regulatory Act 1975) (1657/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e21790	We're on the 10th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. First, Mrs Mag. Muttonen as an applicant for the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e21817	Madam President. High house! The importance of European policy has increased greatly in recent years. More and more issues are being dealt with at European level today because they simply cannot be resolved nationally. How extensive policy has become at European level, we can already see alone the large number of EU sub-committees that are increasing. But at least at the plenary session there is a European issue directly or indirectly on the agenda. However, it is most impressive that some 20,000 documents are now sent to Parliament each year, which represents a huge administrative task and challenge. That is to say, the previous Rules of Procedure is not designed for this intensity and quality of EU policy. That is why, with the proposed changes in the Rules of Procedure of the National Council, we want to fully extend the National Council's European instruments and adapt them to today's and future European challenges. The National Council, through the renewed Rules of Procedure Act and the EU Information Law, which is also soon to be voted on, will become more operational and manageable in its EU policy, as it will receive more comprehensive, faster and efficient information that it needs for its work. For example, the digital transmission of the documents is changed automatically and in real time. The new EU database, which is set up in the Directorate of Parliament, also requires any manual processing, which means substantial administrative simplification and reduction. The amendment will also extend the scope for action of the National Council. Detailed rules are laid down in the case of a subsidiarity action or a request to reject certain EU initiatives. In addition, this amendment facilitates the convening of the EU's main committee and the EU subcommittee in order to react more quickly. We also increase transparency and democratic control of EU policy decisions. In this context, I would like to draw attention to the introduction of written information by the respective ministers, i.e. an extended obligation on the Ministries to inform Parliament, the instrument of documentation request, the possibility of holding a survey on EU matters, the possibility of a debate in all committees on current field-related EU issues. Another point that is also very important – EU policy goes beyond Parliament: It is also our task to increase the transparency of European policy in the public sector. In this way, Parliament's new EU database will be made available to the public as far as possible. Through all these new measures, we are taking a major step in the quality of consulting EU projects here in the house, which we can be quite proud of. I should therefore like to ask all political groups to participate constructively in the further consultation process in this regard. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e21872	Mr Neugebauer has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e21894	Ladies and gentlemen, I find it remarkable that on a day when corruption and suspicions over a wide range of areas have determined the debates, there is still something to smile about, namely, when colleague Dr. Strutz talks to colleague Dr. Jarolim and he is not willing to open his soul in order to accept this praise as well. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP.]] With this amendment of the Rules of Procedure, we want to make a bundle of adjustments in order to optimise parliamentary practice and the daily processes of European political work in Parliament. We are at a high level, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. I do not want to say that what we have developed in this regard is based on a good cooperation of all political groups, but also on an excellent preliminary work by the Members of the Parliament's Directorate, who are making an excellent legal assessment for us as far as the subsidiarity tests are concerned. The amendments to the Rules of Procedure in connection with the EU Information Act must be seen; the review has ended last week. This will help us as a whole – both amendments, Rules of Procedure and EU Information Act – to optimize our daily processes accordingly, to take an active part in the legislative processes in Europe and to improve public information, such as the new database accessible to the public. Thankfully, my previous speaker has listed all positions in a complete way. As this is the first reading, I am looking forward to the debate in the Committee.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e21937	Mr Hübner has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e21960	Madam President. Yes, one thing is clear: With this law, we are following the constitutional law that we have already produced last year. That is, this law will be necessary. But, Mr President, and my colleague, Mr Muttonen, one thing I must say: We are not actively involved in legislative acts. We're talking, we're writing, we're informing – but we're not involved! Let's go to the core of this whole story. Let us, for example, take § 31d in the new Rules of Procedure, as you have proposed, which is a rather thick paper, and see what we really do about the main committee. First of all, there is the statement to the government. In this, the government can be told what it wants, and unless there is any compelling policy of integration, the government or the member of the government representing the Austrian Council should do so. In view of our constitutional reality, which the government essentially chooses, what Parliament is supposed to do, because the government has a corresponding majority in Parliament and, so to speak, the principle of separation is on the head, given this constitutional reality, this is not very much. Then come those things, which are nothing at all, but which are made the most invertebrate and effort driven. These are the 20 000 legislative acts that we as Parliament can do directly. Because of Article 23f, for example, we can address wishes to the relevant EU institutions; “desirable”, that’s what it says. The second is the subsidiarity test. We can write a letter to the reader in which we say what we don't want. Even if everyone writes the same letter, which is extremely unlikely, nothing nevertheless happens; apart from the fact that the Commission is examining again. We can also take note of this, of course, if we get comments on the reasons why a member of the government deviates from our orders in the opinion. Only if the Constitution is changed can we contradict it. How that will work, we'll see. So in total, we'll have to do what's requested here in one form or another, about the way you've done it anyway, but we shouldn't lie to our own pocket and say we're going to work and do something. There is enormous employment on our hands – in a matter where we have no real competence. We will not be able to carry out our actual task, namely the representation of the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e22004	Mrs Mag. Musiol now speaks. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e22025	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Hübner, you can of course find a hair in the soup in everything you talk about Europe. The fact is that the new Rules of Procedure are, so to speak, something that has been determined under the Lisbon Treaty. The content has already been illuminated in detail by my previous speakers. It ranges from debates on current issues in specialist committees, in which we will also be dealing with Europe-related issues, on the possibility of holding surveys, on EU affairs, on a deadline for the annual report of the members of the government, on subsidiarity complaints and on subsidiarity reports. The fact is that a regulatory work has been created that takes all of this into account. There is also an extension which is agreed at least once on a consensus basis and which is still to be done, and this concerns the request for a document, in relation to which further steps must be taken. Not to be forgotten is also the database in which EU documents can be found. . That is certainly a Rules of Procedure, which offers transparency, information and participation. At this point, I would like to thank not only the staff of the Parliamentary Directorate – as Mr Neugebauer has already done – but above all also the employees of SPÖ and ÖVP and the Green Club – at least one is present – who have really tried to find a good solution in many discussions. I think you did. – In this sense: Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e22061	Next speaker: Mr Hagen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e22083	Madam President. High house! I see this a little different from the greens. This is not the big throw, which has been created by this change in the Rules of Procedure. Parliament is getting a little more information about EU projects and EU activities, but in reality not much will change. You can talk a little more, but decisions will still be made outside again. That is, in reality, the large, important decisions in the EU will be concluded by the government with private contracts. Parliament is being rescinded, actually, the highest legislator to vote on it. So there's no improvement in sight here. That's why the whole thing is neither fish nor meat. It's actually not much, it's a little drum swirl, and finally, it's going to be hot again. There's no more in there. Mr Hübner referred to it very well and in detail. I can only support this. We see it the same way. That's not the big throw. We can produce a little more hot air, but more is not inside. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e22113	No one has been reported here in the word. The debate is closed. I accept Amendment 1657/A to the Constitutional Committee. [[22:01:33]] 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report by the Immunities Committee on the request of the Landesgericht Innsbruck (24 Hv 69/11b) for approval of the official persecution of the MP to the National Council Ddr. Werner Königshofer (1397 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e22155	We're on our way to the 11th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. We are going into the debate. No one's spoken. That's why she's already closed. We now come to the vote on the request of the Committee on Immunities in 1397 to decide on the following: “In the examination of the request of the Landesgericht Innsbruck, GZ 24 Hv 69/11b, for approval of the official persecution of the MP to the National Council DDr. Werner Königshofer will be in the sense of Art. 57 para. 3 B-VG notes that there is no link between the criminal act alleged by the private prosecutor and the political activity of the Deputies to the National Council Ddr. Werner Königshoferbestands.’ I ask those ladies and gentlemen who follow this request for a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. [[22:03:04]] 12. Point Report of the Immunities Committee on the request of the Public Prosecutor's Office in Vienna (502 St 28/11s) for approval of the official persecution of the MP to the National Council DDr. Werner Königshofer (1398 a.k.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e22217	We're on our way to the 12. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. The debate is open and closed again because no one has spoken. We therefore come to the vote on the request of the Committee on Immunities in 1398 of the supplements to decide on the following: “In consideration of the request of the Public Prosecutor’s Office in Vienna, GZ 502 St 28/11s, for approval of the official persecution of the MP to the National Council DDr. Werner Königshofer will be in the sense of Art. 57 para. 3 B-VG found that no link between the incriminated facts and the political activity of the MP to the National Council DDr. Werner Königshoferbestands.’ I ask those ladies and gentlemen who follow this request for a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. [[22:04:24]] 13. Point Report of the Immunities Committee on the request of the Public Prosecutor's Office in Vienna (604 St 8/11z) for approval of the official persecution of the MP to the National Council of Herbert Scheibner(1407 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e22275	We're going to the 13th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. We are going into the debate. There's a word message. Mr Mag. Stadler has spoken. Ladies and gentlemen, how much time should I have for you? The BZÖ still has 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e22337	Madam President. The demand for extradition of the public prosecutor's office in Vienna is based on a report from Raiffeisenlandesbank Niederösterreich-Vienna AG, where the colleague Scheibner has a Giro account. This report was obviously forwarded to the Federal Criminal Office in accordance with § 41, under the terms of the Banking Act, because it is a so-called PEP, a politically exposed person. There are about 300, 300 PEPs in this House, i.e. not to forget Members and all Members of Parliament, our spouses and parents. And it is the Scheibner's colleague who is planning a case of money laundering, and this money laundering, Mr Pilz, looks like this – money laundering, not corruption, because you're talking about corruption: It looks like eight years after the basic business, Herbert Scheibner is said to have gone to a subsidiary of Eurofighter to say: Now you have to transfer me 5 000 € per month, and please do so for a year, in total 60 000 €. I still have to tax them, then still stay at €30 000 for the fact that eight years ago I would have liked a type decision for you – where, by the way, he was originally against this type decision. There was a completely different minister and, by the way, a completely different party, quite wildly behind the fact that that type was purchased, which was then purchased. At first, Herbert Scheibnerder was the one who did the longest and most persistent resistance. [[Abg. Wöginger: It doesn't use anything!]] So, ladies and gentlemen: What company do such an address take seriously eight years after the basic business? - I don't think so. And if, after eight years, anyone came to the idea of having a billion-dollar business paid €60,000, I would make a request for recognition for this corresponding person – yes, I repeat it here again. [[Abg. Wöginger: You've said that before!]] But whatever I did is to make it clear first to the Minister of the Interior, again ÖVP, that her own officials have disregarded the law, for they should have informed the Scheibner Member immediately that such a report has been made. They didn't. [[Abg. Ursula Haubner: Incredible!]] I repeat it again: The news was only about the media after the public prosecutor's request for extradition was reached here in the house. § 41 para. 3 of our Banking Act, however, provides for an immediate understanding of the account holder concerned, about which there has been a corresponding report. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Nobody's interested in that. As long as it's not about black PEPs, it's meat what you do with other PEPs. And then this Raiffeisenbank comes up with the idea of constructing a money-laundering case, even though it was previously disclosed to her and explained to her what it is about, while at the PEP Strasser, PEP Grasser and all the other PEPs who have their accounts there, she has never come up with any money-laundering suspicion. It's a coincidence. These are, of course, all blacks, ladies and gentlemen. I repeat it – this will now be heard even more often by Raiffeisen; there are also media that are not so mainstreamly connected, black and giebel-oriented that are ready to report on it objectively too: Whoever has an account with Raiffeisen in this country must know that he must never get into the Austrian People's Party, for otherwise his entire account data will be played to the public in vain. And all this, ladies and gentlemen, with a mere alleged money laundering suspicion. Whoever has an account with Raiffeisen needs to know that he cannot stand in the way of an interest in the ÖVP, who has an account with Raiffeisen, must know that then, if it serves the Austrian People's Party, in particular the Lower Austrian People's Party – there must be a distinction, because there are areas in the Austrian People's Party that really do not participate – the law no longer plays a role. By the way, I would also like to take the decision of another Raiffeisen organisation, for example Upper Austria. This seems to be a specification of Raiffeisen Lower Austria. In the moment that Raiffeisen Niederösterreich has thus decided that it has to serve the Austrian People's Party if it now plays account data to the public at once, the law no longer plays a role. Then, too, the bank no longer plays a role. Then the people get over it mercilessly. I can only guess to everyone: Solve your account with Raiffeisen! There is no bank that is so dangerous when it comes to political links, such as Raiffeisen Lower Austria, ladies and gentlemen. - That's the first one. But it would be possible for everything to be somehow argued if the Bank had just reported those account details to Parliament, which are supposed to be money-laundering suspects. - But no, she sent everyone here! Everyone! Pimperl transfers that have nothing to do with the so-called money laundering at all. Everyone can see the act over there now and can look at all these account movements. Bank secrecy, banking law no longer plays a role. Nothing! It doesn't matter at all. If Raiffeisen has decided, now the ÖVP needs a discharge because ÖVP politicians are in the shooting field, then Mr Konrad has decided in this way. And please, it's absurd to believe that this didn't go over the desk of Mr. Konrad, Lord Oberjägermeister. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Then the leaf shot is due. This is the whole policy that Raiffeisen operates. And that's why I'm saying: Raiffeisenkrake will now realize that we don't like it. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We are not the most powerful party in this country, but we will not like it if Raiffeisen believes that we are the subject of political calculations and political strategy decisions for the Austrian People's Party. [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: What about the payments to Scheibner?]] - Please? Also a Raiffeisen representative. Yes, please, no Raiffeisen representative. But of course, Raiffeisen Lower Austria! You all crawl before Raiffeisen Lower Austria because that is your guarantee of existence and existence. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the ÖVP.]] We have seen that at Mr Pröll. Mr Pröll feeds Raiffeisen Lower Austria and Mr Pröll will be at Raiffeisen Lower Austria, of course, continues to feed after leaving politics. [[Abg. Tamandl:...! That's a joke!]] Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, this is your banking system. And, of course, we're going to take a little different care of this banking system now than it has been. I can only say that Raiffeisen will now have a lot of joy with us, because I will warn the citizens about it every week: If anyone has to fear coming into the balance with the interests of the public, then he must not have one: a raiffeisen account, ladies and gentlemen! I can only guess anyone's gonna break up their raiffeisen accounts right away. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] To the immunity case itself. I am glad that this is going through the stage quickly, because Herbert Scheibner is able to explain all of this to the prosecutor's office. [[Abg. Wöginger: That's clear anyway! Everything!]] We'll see. Please, on the other hand, I would like you to have a corruption case in connection with the Eurofighter, because I guarantee you that this would be a contractual solution. Yes, you know, what group would have the greatest panic if the Treaty were to be dissolved? – The Austrian People's Party and their Fast Partyman Grasser! Ladies and gentlemen, that's how it looks. No political group in this House must fear that this legal transaction will be reversed than the Austrian People's Party. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the ÖVP.]] So that's even the biggest chuzpe that's sitting in here, and now you think you can knock on the thighs because it's the Herbert Scheibner. First, it won't happen to him. Secondly, I would like to see a case of corruption coming out, because then you would be the first to cry, because at the moment the treaty would be settled back. At the moment, the whole building is collapsing. At the moment, what you have prevented in the Eurofighter Investigation Committee, that is to say, information. At the moment, the Enlightenment would be enforceable. Unfortunately, this is not possible in this case.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e22490	Mr Pilz has now come to speak. I would like to speak for 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e22511	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Perhaps everything is not in detail what Mr Stadler has just said. [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] But it is important to point out the difference; perhaps it was a mistake of Herbert Scheibner to choose Raiffeisen and Hypo Alpe-Adria. [[Abg. Amon: The accounts have opened the prosecutor's office, not Raiffeisen!]] That was a mistake, and I'm going to come back to this mistake. Let's start first in 2000! Coalition negotiations between FPÖ and ÖVP: Not only did Herbert Scheibner report to me that these coalition agreements were a sub-agreement which is not part of the coalition agreement, which reads as follows: FPÖ undertakes not to agree to a Thomson Investigation Committee. [[Call the ÖVP:Sideletter!]] The first question is: Why? What was Thomson? – A arms business from the late nineties, where there were serious accusations against the later Chancellor Dr. Schüssel. - That's it. And there was certainly an interest in not being investigated. I would like to make it clear whether there has been this side agreement and whether Herbert Scheibneran has cooperated with it. We will be able to clarify this in this House because there are other witnesses outside of FPÖ and also ÖVP for this side agreement. - It's just at the beginning. [[Abg. Chicken: fairytale uncle!]] Then to the year 2002. Mr Stadler, you can, of course, represent this as if Eurofighter were a rocket aircraft and SAAB grips were the plane of free and non-corrupt banking. It wasn't quite that way. I assume – and this will show later investigations, in particular of the public prosecutor’s office – that SAAB and Eurofighters, as usual, have used exactly the same methods, until perhaps, I say, careful, to bribe officials, not just politicians. Herbert Scheibner – colleague Stadler said it correctly – was not a representative of Eurofighter, but a representative of SAAB. So he was better at nothing and nothing worse than Karl-Heinz Grasser, he was only more unsuccessful. This is the big difference between grass and scheibner in the interception type decision. [[Abg. May. Stadler:...! That's absurd!]] Mensdorff-Pouilly is now blaming himself to his clients in London, having achieved the goal of returning to competition with the funds he had been made available to him, namely that SAAB grips – which had already been eliminated due to the floating price clause – were taken back into the competition. And we look into the files and see, there's a statement from Minister of Defense Herbert Scheibner. That doesn't mean he took money for it. [[Abg. May. Stadler: I guess I want to mean that!]] But it says that the suspect, including the prosecutor's office, is that he was the very person who helped to break through the interests of British Aerospace and its money-broker Mensdorff-Pouilly. Or do you really believe, Mr Stadler, that British Aerospace has lulled all the non-participants about Mensdorff-Pouilly and left the parties involved in lubrications unlit? - No, that's what the prosecutor now explains. [[Abg. May. Stadler: We explained this to the committee!]] Let's leave it there! There will be a parliamentary investigation later. And now the great Lower Austrian Raiffeisen conspiracy: Do you really want to explain to us – and I am really not a great friend of Mr. Konrad and of Raiffeisen – that Mr. Konrad founded a letterbox company behind the back of Herbert Scheibner, to which Herbert Scheibner has then transferred money in error and misguided by Raiffeisen? [[Abg. May. Stadler: This is not a letterbox company! How do you know that's a letterbox company? That's what you claim!]] And then Herbert Scheibner explains why he did not report this to Parliament and says because he never had an income? [[Abg. May. Stadler: This is absurd!]] And then he's asked by Armin Wolf what's going on with the letterbox company and he explains, yes, he shared fees with two people there? [[Abg. May. Stadler: That's absurd!]] Mr Stadler, explain to me what this is! You say you're getting a fee that's not an income?- Oh, my God! This is a complicated matter that will not only interest the prosecutor: the indebted honor of the ex-defense minister. The indebted honor! [[Abg. May. Hakl: The speaking time is over!]] Mr Stadler, I shall now give you a point of order. Yes, Herbert Scheibner has probably made two mistakes regarding raiffeisen and money laundering reports, whose correctness the prosecutor has to verify and not me. First: He should probably have gone to the Hypo Alpe-Adria, since he would have been partially well removed or better removed. Or: He made the mistake of not joining the ÖVP in good time, which would have been quite a possibility given his political career and the change of party. But in retrospect, to criticise the fact that there is a money laundering advertisement of Raiffeisen, which a prosecutor takes at least so seriously that he will review it once and, in this context, take the legislative steps against the Austrian National Council, the Parliament – this accusation cannot be raised rightly. There is great doubt that Herbert Scheibner is someone who is worth it and who is suitable to serve as Minister of Defense or as a representative of that Republic. There are many reasons, and there are not only Eurofighters and the dubious businesses that are now moving the public prosecutors who should lead us to think more carefully about Members like Herbert Scheibner. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, who find nothing to be the former Minister of Defense, without saying anything to Parliament, then to do Austrian military business and perhaps to need the full weight of their former office and possibly to miss it. I would like us to deal more closely with this, and I would like us to have Members of which the people who have chosen or not to vote know exactly one thing: To whom they are obliged – whether they are exclusively committed to voters or smaller or larger arms companies. And one thing I'm saying to you, Mr Stadler: This question has clearly been answered by Mr Scheibner, Mr Scheibner, by his practice. It was more important to him to be obliged to arms companies than to the people who chose or did not choose him, and that is why it is being properly examined – now by the prosecutor and certainly in another round parliamentary. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e22716	Mr Magistrate. Stadler reported again. Ladies and gentlemen, two minutes of the rest of the debate are left. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e22743	Very soon: Now we have seen what the Peter Pilz has: nothing but ridiculous suspicions. There is no business the Herbert Scheibner has done with the Austrian federal army, none! Come out and say what! You're not able to do that! Except for an unproven, flat-rate and even stupid suspicion, you have nothing. Secondly, There are no mailbox companies. These companies have been registered there for years and days. There are Austrian businessmen who operate these companies, and these companies are not illegal and have been exposed. [[Intervocations at ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Thirdly, For the notification, he has previously obtained a expertise from Parliament's Directorate. The criminalization is an infamy. You don't have anything in your hand. You don't have anything except ridiculous false claims, you're throwing my colleague Scheibner and you think you can win something?- Oh, my God! - We'll drive you out! [[General hustle and bustle.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] For one thing we do not allow, that is, that the Lord believes Pilz, he can choose here who he shoots. If not, my dear friend! You chose the right one this time. Raiffeisen is a very different chapter. [[Cheerfulness and intermediate calls at the ÖVP.]] This is no coincidence that business activities from 2009, business activities from 2010 at once, in autumn 2011, where the ÖVP is in distress, will become the subject of suspicion. [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] For two years not, but now at once – we're going to explain, we're already with them. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: What does it mean to “turn out”?]] But Peter Pilz won't make us criminalise our colleague Scheibner just because you believe with your imagination you can turn a rope on him. You don't have anything in your hand! If you had something in your hand out here, you could've put it out. With us you can discuss everything, especially with me. But with white pants coming out and then risking a big lip, that's Peter Pilz today.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e22816	Mr President, I would just like to say that at this point, and I would also like to make this clear again with the political groups: The expertise of Parliament's management can only be drawn up if they are carried out via my mission, and I have not given a mandate. This means, of course, that each Member has the opportunity to provide information on his own report, but there is no expertise in this House. I just want to make this clear. [[Abg. May. Stadler: He picked up! Let's call it a statement of information!]] Nobody's reported word anymore. The debate is closed. [[Call to the ÖVP: Thank God!]] We now come to the vote on the request of the Committee on Immunities in 1407 of the supplements to decide on the following: “In consideration of the request of the Procuratorate of Vienna, GZ 604 St 8/11z, for approval of the official persecution of the MP to the National Council of Herbert Scheibnerwill be in accordance with Art. 57 para. 3 B-VG notes that there is no link between the incriminated facts and the political activity of the Member to the National Council of Herbert Scheibner.’ [[Intervocations at the ÖVP in the direction of the Abg. Huber.]] I ask those ladies and gentlemen who follow this request for a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. The agenda is exhausted. [[22:25:19]] Request for the establishment of a Committee of Inquiry
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e22874	We shall now proceed to the debate on the request of Dr. Rosenkranz, Dr. Pilz, Mag. Stadler, ladies and gentlemen, on the establishment of an investigation committee on the investigation of allegations of corruption. This request has now been distributed to all Members. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e22985	We are going into the debate. In the sense of § 57a para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure shall be the speaking time in this debate for each five minutes. The first speaker has a speaking time of 10 minutes; Comments from members of the Federal Government may also take 10 minutes. President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e23012	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! This is the second request we are making in this context and which we are quite similar in the matter. During the first discussion we had recently about the upcoming – and he will come – examination committee, Klubobmann Cap said with a certain degree of permission: Yes, if even the opposition can't agree, how should we agree?- Oh, my God! The condition for an agreement is the agreement of the opposition! As you can see, we took this seriously. It is not quite easy to come to joint requests with very different basic attitudes, such as those of the Freedom Party, the BZÖ and us. But we have formulated this joint proposal. I'll tell you why. Firstly, because it was not particularly complicated in the matter. We have summarized all the essential points in very simple negotiations, in very simple negotiations. No one of the three opposition parties has disagreed that Deutsche Telekom's topic is to be examined in all its details. No one has disagreed that the topic of BUWOG is to be examined in detail. No one has disagreed that the theme “Novomatic tries to buy a law in this house as an organized gambling”. No one has disagreed that the government radio, i.e. Tetron/Adonis, must be examined in the Ministry of the Interior, but also far beyond the Ministry of the Interior. Granting citizenship – these were very simple conversations. All three opposition groups have said: Okay, there's allegations, let's examine these allegations in parliamentary terms. And it was similar with the question of the ÖBB listing, Faymann, Ostermayer. With an addition, that we have said after a brief discussion: Yes, if there is further evidence, we will definitely write “as well as similar cases of other Federal ministers. ” There is a certain behavioural conspicuousness also outside the SPÖ as regards ads. If, for example, I follow up on the relevant activity of the Minister for the Environment, there are at least some good reasons for me to look very closely at. Before Josef Cap starts radiating and signaling: Look, you could get a problem there, too! , I say: [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fichtenbauer: He doesn't agree anyway, he doesn't care!]] Well, if you look at the practice of this federal government, it's no big surprise that the problems are quite similar. Maybe Werner Faymann invented that, but he wasn't alone for long. Well, of course, this has been imitated by other parties, and I argue that the ÖVP was the only party that has successfully imitated it. But that's what we're going to look at. These were the substantive negotiations. The crucial point, however, was another: There has recently been the attempt by SPÖ and ÖVP to congratulate us on a government proposal to a committee of inquiry in an impressive insolence. I know nothing similar – that government parties agree on how Parliament in a committee of inquiry should control the activities of governments. And you wanted to invite us next Wednesday? – To present us with a government proposal and to say: This has a majority, and you can consider whether you agree or not, perhaps there are small negotiation possibilities, but no more. We know your cow's hand, and the cow's trade was quite simple and quite open, because you think that this is still going on in this house. The cow trade is quite simple: You do not consider the investigation of the Faymann Inserate, and we do not give up the investigation of the suspicion of the party financing of the ÖVP in the questions of Telekom and Tetron, directly or via the Industrial Association, because in this case it is simply and simply an organized system of donations, which unfortunately is still legally illegal in Austria, in the Federal Republic of Germany. They risk three years in prison there. That's it! And this cow trade was clear, and it was perfectly clear that next week exactly this ultimatum should have been presented to us: Join us or don't join us! And it's one clear, with all the differences of the opposition fractions: The opposition in this House will not be involved in a cover-up committee instead of a committee of inquiry! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the FPÖ.]] That is why we have now tabled this proposal. Of course, we are willing to negotiate this request. As opposition groups, we have no majority in this House, and we need a majority to decide. But don't underestimate one: We have a large majority for these investigations, the majority of honest and decent people in the Austrian population, behind us. I would not recommend making it happen to you, which in the end is stronger: A parliamentary majority of the dishonesty and non-preparation for clarification or a majority in the Austrian population, who want exactly that and expect Parliament, namely that each of these points will be clarified in full. Now, of course, there are reasonable objections and indications that we need to pay particular attention to some questions. For example: What happens to the investigations of the judicial system? – Yes, of course, if it were to go to the ÖVP, we would only examine parliamentaryly if all procedures were completed, i.e. in two to three legislative periods. That's pointless. But we will take into account the investigation interests of the judiciary. I am in favour of addressing the President of the National Council and saying that it must be possible to have a discussion with the Court of Justice, where particular investigation interests would be at risk in the coming weeks and months and in which areas it is already possible to start investigations without any particular threat to the surveys carried out within a committee of inquiry. These are practical voting problems, which are important and which can also be solved positively by us. But the first problem we have to solve is quite simple: We have to force the government parties to examine all that is contained in this proposal together with us. So, and now I expect Josef Cap, or whoever comes out in his name, to say, Okay, you've fulfilled our condition, the opposition has agreed. We will discuss a few details until next week, but then the Investigation Committee will be set up. And I expect the ÖVP to say – it will certainly be different –: Well, if we can't rely on the SPÖ this time, we'll be there too. Finally, you know that you cannot prevent this parliamentary investigation. That is why it makes sense for us to do this together as quickly as possible – but on the factual basis that the opposition has now worked out together. I'm just telling you one thing: If you continue to try to delay this and to delay it, and if you continue to try to restrict the investigation committee's mandate, and if in particular you, by the Austrian People's Party, continue to try to prevent the investigative committee from investigating illegal party funding for the Austrian People's Party, then it will not happen. But then we will have to consider by the opposition whether and how we are turning to the Austrian population to mobilize the majority of honest and decent, also against a repressive and preventable majority of the government. I would like it – for all of us, including the government parties – if you now come to parliamentary reason and negotiate with us quickly. There is an objectively well-founded request. I think it makes sense to negotiate only this request. Forget any coalitions! We don't need you anymore. Carriers You have something to do with improving this project, and then we can start very quickly with the work of this committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e23086	The speaking time of the Members who have now spoken shall be 5 minutes each. The first is Mrs Mag. All right, let's talk. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e23107	Madam President. High house! Mr Pilz, thank you for the ultimatum you have put on the table here. The performance – you are now apparently the united opposition spokesperson or leader – was the opposition party that they packed all the requests they made a week ago and now sold us that they have discussed, negotiated intensively, and really raised concerns and concerns about how best to explain in our country. At the beginning of the story: Telekom is in the centre, course manipulations, funding of retired government members and their infrastructure, awarding of the government radio, payments to agencies, where we receive daily new news and findings about the media, hunting experiences, including the guarantee of fire and very often also with economic guarantees, consulting orders for retired government members – and above all, the idea of indifference and, above all, the economy is floating into one's own pockets. This dimension, this economic damage that has taken place in the companies that concern the reputation of the Austrian Republic and its agents, but also the damage to employees is enormous. Especially the damage to credibility, we need to look at this dimension. There is a common issue, which we have already discussed in several meetings here. Mr Pilz, you have said that all those who do not wish to agree to the request of the united opposition parties are the dishonests, the dishonests and the immoderate. I really want to reject this, because all the colleagues here in this House are trying to work daily for the interests of the people and not to get into their own pockets! [[Congratulation with SPÖ and ÖVP]] [[Abg. Neugebauer: Diction Pilz!]] We have a common issue. I would like to ask colleagues, also from the opposition parties, to work to ensure that we can formulate the joint mandate and that we come to a consensus, because that is democracy. I know that this is always a very intense debate that comes to a consensus, because you always have to find yourself on new positions that you have to represent. It is probably most difficult for you that you are not equal to your position, but that there are negotiations on it. But I think that the negotiations on the further procedure have already begun, and there are already dates fixed and set out. [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: What dates are fixed? Between SPÖ and ÖVP?]] There are dates for negotiation. You mentioned earlier that negotiations would take place next week. We have the task of taking a democratic decision, ladies and gentlemen, and I rely on the wisdom and serenity of the representatives of the five parliamentary parties here in this House.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e23165	Next speaker: Mr Dipl.-Ing. Deimek. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e23197	Madam President. High house! Yes, Mr Bartenstein, it has really been said a lot, but not all. Let's go get some more of that. There are a few points which have now been raised by Mr Lapp, who are inside this joint motion by the opposition parties, which are also important. Of course, the whole telecoms story, where, among other things, it is always suggested as an argument that everything has been taxed. Well, it is also about taxation, but not only, because not everything that has been taxed has also found its right way, and not a few of these funds, which have been taxed, have been found in the final effect, not legitimate, or in any case in the pockets of politicians or politicians. Public radio – a similar picture. – You really have to let it break on the tongue: There's an award, then the contract is terminated in retrospect, and then there's a re-allocation. [[Abg. Dr. Bartenstein: This is often the case!]] There you can say that this is very often the case in the economy – but only when there is a very good reason. And you can be sure that in the economy – you will know, Mr Bartenstein – there is a great deal of dust in such cases, because it has been influenced. It's not by chance anything. It was not by chance that anyone made a wrong decision, but it was subsequently influenced. And that is what is disgraceful. Now we are coming to the additional things that are quite worthy of mention in this case, namely citizenship. I know, I'll be right back. Look at that shit! – No, not colleagues Scheuch, but Mr Colombo, for example. It wasn't really Austrian, but it had to be Austrian, very quickly – without festivals, without other things. What is also important and interesting is the whole subject of the ÖBB listing. There is, please, – and it has already been mentioned several times today – a confession by Mr Ostermayer. It is not – and I would like to stress this specifically – about the criminal relevance. That's what somebody else's checking. But if I can read the following in a press release today: "This situation has been known for years and has been discussed and examined in detail. Since 2008, six parliamentary questions have been put and answered in full," I have to say: Go, go, go, go, go, go, go, How are sometimes – I do not say: always, but I say: sometimes – parliamentary questions answered in this House? – With the standard layer: Ingerence, outsourced society, according to the motto: We like it! Above all, Mrs Finanzminister is very good at her answers. Sometimes it also says: There is no new knowledge from this! It's going – again! – not about what has happened under criminal law, but simply about political responsibility. It's to be examined! And when you stand down and say, Well, the whole ad story was like this: The companies wanted to advertise!, then I have to say: I believe so, but they didn't want to advertise to this extent and they didn't want the Minister on the listing and they didn't want many others either, but they were forced. There is political responsibility to be examined. The following sentence from the press release mentioned above: “Here has become visible a system aimed at plundering popular wealth....” – I agree with this sentence. It also says: “Here is a real need for information so that political responsibility can be determined and legal consequences drawn.” – This must be underlined. I also join those words. Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, join us in this proposal so that it can really be examined!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e23244	Next speaker: Mrs Dr. Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e23265	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Lap, I would like to thank our wisdom, including our serenity, for the appeal. I believe that wisdom says that we should finally restore confidence in politics and trust in democracy. I think it is also a command of wisdom to avoid in Austria conditions which, unfortunately, are still more to be observed in other countries. Especially when you appeal to this wisdom, you would have to go to our request, because it is also about that we finally create clarity at the BUWOG. How often the SPÖ, indeed in a certain wisdom, has held: Yes, it has to be examined! Think of my colleague herbs! It's always been because you're investigating that. Mr Jarolim even said that until the summer of this year the Committee of Inquiry should come to the "Causa BUWOG". Now, at once, there is no more talk about it. This is the clear signal that you have closed a cow trade in your mind with the ÖVP: No government radio, no BUWOG! - All right. The revelation was now. Now the second point: the serenity. – Yes, my goodness, we have already shown enough serenity by taking it, with the ads since 2007 – I have to correct: not only since 2008 but since 2007! – simply leave the thing in the room like that. This serenity lasted more or less four years. But now it's enough! Now we need some information. While it is not necessarily a criminal law matter, it is primarily a political-moral matter, especially in the sense that the persons involved – and that is the frustrating thing for me! – do not find the slightest injustice of not being aware of any guilt at all. They do as if that were natural. That is the problem: no injustice in the face of the deepest political-moral crime! I don't understand that, and unfortunately I can't stay there, although I have been in this matter for four years anyway. But now it's really enough. Or: citizenship. – Why do you have a problem with the SPÖ to investigate the “Causa Citizenship”? You're not in there yet, at least according to my knowledge. But you don't know what's hiding there. So I don't understand why you're getting rid of this matter from the beginning and really just crawling into the Telekom areas. This is only one aspect, as we have heard several times. Even in gambling, the SPÖ is now at once quiet. It brings much more into this intercoalitionary cow trade than the ÖVP. The SPÖ pays for it all the time: To the BUWOG she abandons, at the end of the game, abandons the government radio, abandons citizenship – only so that an investigation is not made on the ads! Please, that's a bad cow trade! You're really going into a bad deal. That's where the added value of yours is great. You have to say that very clearly. Now I am curious about how the argument of the ÖVP will sound. I dare a prophetic announcement. The EIA will say: Yes, we must focus on a very clear and clear subject of investigation, and we must not compromise the judicial proceedings. But I say quite honestly: We just summarized it very clearly and clearly. After the series of periods of time, with fixed time periods, we can precisely outline the individual chapters, systematically, clearly and consistently. And we can immediately negotiate with the Public Prosecutor's Office and make up for what time corset, in which time rhythm it should be in, so that justice is not affected. That is what I am telling you at the beginning of your argument, which you will probably repeat to me as a replica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e23329	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Stadler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e23371	A good proposal can be taken up. Are you there? Let's take the van der Bellen in! I don't have a problem with that. Are you there? Is that a promise? There has been no mention of the ÖVP so far. You do not even take part in this debate. That's what makes you look deep. Is anyone speaking now? [[Call the ÖVP:Yes!]] Well, then he'll come out and say, If the van der Bellen insists on it, we agree! Then we'll talk about it. You can do that with us. Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, this request is the response of the opposition to the control periphery you are planning. I mean, you really have to thank my colleague, Mrs Lapp, for leaving here and saying in a certain sense of indifference or inadequacy: Yes, the dates are already fixed! So far: But not with us! No, the government controls itself, there are already the dates fixed. Control? – What do we need the opposition to that? That's what we're doing. Exchange my control inactivity against your control inactivity: This is the deal that has been going on between these two government parties for years and day, ladies and gentlemen. Just, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ and of the ÖVP, this time it is a little different: not only because, as Mr Pilz said, the majority of the people believe that this is all to be controlled, but also because the legal situation has changed a little. One of the few good legacyes of the former Federal Minister Bandion-Ortner, who was still a giant compared to her successor, is that she left behind the leniency regime. And there you can do what you want: The Leniency Regulation, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, will help to ensure that all the events at Telekom come out sooner or later. I guarantee you that! Mr Bartenstein: A chandelier lying goes to a glamour where he loses the benefit that would be granted to him by the chandelier arrangement. That is to say, it can be assumed that a chandelier is not lying. And in my opinion, the evidence offered here is very credible. – The first change. The second change is that you have a climate of hostility that I have actually experienced since the time Willi Molterer announced, it is no longer possible, it is enough, no longer. At present, we actually have a situation that would have led to the early elections of the National Council. Red looks around the back, about his media, that as far as possible black works. With his former director-general from the ÖBB, Schwarz then looks at the fact that a Faymann-Inserateng’schlatterl comes out. – Loud testimony comes on the plan at once. This little game will continue. Today I've read, now red shakes Mr. Huber again and says: Mr Huber worked with Mr Hochegger. It's getting more and more funny. It was the Lapp that suggested that something had already come out. I don't know if you've already discussed this at your appointment. I've got the suspicion that you're not in control anymore. The hostilities between these two parties that are open, which are massive, would even lead to national elections if you didn't both have to fear at present that they would end disastrously because you both would get one on the roof from the voters. Otherwise, we would already have national council elections. You have prepared it well from red, but it has got you this ad story a little bit in between. Their spinal doctors have made a line through the bill. Black tried it too. With the blacks, the great talents are now around Mr. Rauch. He has learned from Ernst Strasser, is an apprentice from the Strasser – is not really pleasant for you! He also believes that he has to earn his merites now, so to speak, and he now shows it to the spindleleger how to do it right: with a so-called “dirty camping”. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Donnerbauer.]] The election campaign is already being prepared. That means that, in reality, everything would be campaigned if it didn't end disastrously if you didn't get one on the roof by the voters. And now you think you can prevent control at this time? – You no longer have it under control! You can't stop it anymore, ladies and gentlemen! If today Jarolim, Herbs, Krainer no longer say what they said before some meetings, then this indicates that you are actually in danger of a committee of inquiry happening. That's why they can't talk anymore. That's why you're sending Mrs. Lapp out here. Madam President, Mr Prammer announces about the ORF that there will be this control this year. But no one speaks to the opposition because the government says: We will not let the campaign of the opposition get dirty! Ladies and gentlemen, if you believe that this game is going on, you'll be fooled. I'll tell you: This game doesn't go up! Now a reference to the award of citizenship. This is not only a Carinthian theme, but also a topic in red Salzburg. That is, reason enough for the SPÖ, that no longer like this as a topic. And the argument with justice has even come to your attention today by the Minister of Justice, who himself said: What we need to clarify here is to inform Parliament, and what we need to clarify from the judiciary is to inform justice!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e23423	Next speaker: Mr Amon. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e23444	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Today, the BZÖ's words are really defamatory. That's really remarkable. I believe, by the way, that the only party that really needs to be afraid of elections is the BZÖ, because it would be more than uncertain if it were to be part of this House afterwards. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: We are not afraid! The ÖVP is so bad that we're not afraid! The ÖVP is so bad that we don't have to be afraid!]] Today I have listened very carefully to what you gave of yourself from the BZÖ. Mr Grosz, for example, asked literally this morning for a standing committee of inquiry to be set up on the basis of the inquisition. I assume, Mr Stadler, you know what the Inquisition was. There were the investigator, the prosecutor and the judge, all three in one person. Such a procedure is worse than corruption as a whole. Mr Stadler, this is something we cannot imagine. I would like to say this to you in all clarity: No inquisition! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That is also what you made in your speech in the previous debate when you claimed that the Raiffeisen would have opened accounts on behalf of the ÖVP. This statement is really absurd! [[Abg. May. Stadler: In the interest of the ÖVP! Listen! In the interest of the ÖVP!]] If someone opens accounts, it's the Vienna Procuratorate. And I have to say, The Vienna Procuratorate can be blamed a lot, but if she has anything to do with the ÖVP, you really can't blame her, Mr. Stadler! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] So, please, do not turn away from the problems that the BZÖ has with the need for explanation, so that you can blame us here! [[Abg. May. Stadler: We have no problems!]] [[Abg. Dr. Moser: Maybe you could say something about our request!]] I also believe that it is unheard of and is also a kind of inquisitorial process if you, Mr Pilz, are speaking here of illegal party funding at the People's Party. Put a proof of this on the table! Claim You don't have things taken out of the air! I'll turn that back. It's wrong. There was no illegal party funding. Dr. Pilz, if you have such proof, put him on the table! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I wrote down a few words this afternoon, which I'm going to say tonight. It says, among other things: Opposition does not make a common request today! Throughout the afternoon, there were three different, partly contradictory requests from the opposition, you have accused us, the government parties, but we would only block. – Completely absurd! The two government club members invited you to a discussion next week, where you will try to agree on a joint request for an investigation committee. I don't know why you're acting like that. Then one is asked by the media, where it is said that the opposition would speak “with foam in front of the mouth, ” because the government parties are blocking that way. Foam in front of the mouth, that's very bad, because that's a sign of great emotion. We want to clarify matters, ladies and gentlemen, not with emotion. [[Demonstrative applause with the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Moser: Yes when?]] In the sense of Mosers, let us win back confidence in politics! Much more we win it back when we approach these things objectively. It's got, like, mine. Ladies and gentlemen – the President announced it at 6.50 p.m. – all three opposition parties withdrew their request in succession – apparently they did not make it with the quality – and a new joint request. Good. I have looked at it very carefully and have to say: That's what it's like when you're making hush-fush actions. I take the first subject, which is divided from a to f, and note: Unfortunately, there are only two points inside which Parliament can actually review. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: That's it!]] Only two points relate to the execution, ladies and gentlemen. And I can't do that! Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, I may kindly ask you: Accept the offer of the club members of the two government parties! [[Abg. Dr. Moser: What is not execution?]] I can tell you. If that's what it says: Taxation of all payments made by Telekom Austria to their lobbyists, consultants and intermediaries. - Excuse me, not to be angry, but it is the duty of the tax authorities and not the task of Parliament to review the proper taxation. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: This is execution!]] That's where you have to look at tax law! Don't be angry with me, but it's not Parliament's job to ensure proper tax collection. [[Abg. May. Stadler: This is execution! Constitutional law, first semester!]] So my proposal is: If you accept the offer of government club members, come to the discussion. But I also say one thing to you: without limitation, without limitation. We invite you to open an open conversation. Let us see where we can reach agreement, and then we will set up the Committee of Inquiry and ensure that we are informed.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e23625	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request made by Dr Rosenkranz, Dr Pilz, Mag. Stadler, ladies and gentlemen, on the establishment of an investigation committee on the investigation of allegations of corruption. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. [[23:00:58]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2011-09-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00118_d8e23663	I am still announcing that in today's session the self-employed applications were submitted 1660/A to 1678/A(E). Questions 9287/J to 9340/J were also raised. Finally, a request from the honourable Member is Mag. Stadler has been brought to the President of the National Council. The next meeting of the National Council, which will concern business communications and allocations, will be convened at 23.01 a.m. – that is immediately after this meeting. This meeting is closed.
