ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e4173	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen! I'll open the 99. Meeting of the National Council. The Official Protocol of the 98. Meeting of 22. ==References====External links==* Official website As prevented, MEPs are reported to be dusters, Grossruck, Dr. Fichtenbauer, Ing. Hofer, Vilimsky, Dr. Lichtenecker, Dr. Moser, List, Petzner and Donk. I announce that the meeting will be transferred live by the ORF by 1 p.m. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e4207	For this meeting, the Federal Chancellery on the representation of members of the Federal Government made the following statement: The Federal Minister for European and International Affairs Dr. Michael Spindelegger is the Federal Minister for Agriculture, Forestry, the Environment and the Water Industry Dipl.-Ing. Nikolaus Berlakovich. It is also announced that the Federal Minister for Finance and Vice-Cancellor Dipl.-Ing. Josef Pröll is represented by the Federal Minister for the Interior Dr. Maria Fekter because of his illness. [[09:06:47]] Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e4255	We arrive at the current hour with the theme: “No Euro-Haftungssch screen without a referendum, Mr Bundeskanzler” First of all, Mr Klubobmann Strache. You have 10 minutes of speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e4282	Madam President. Gentlemen on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! You can turn it and turn it as you want: Unfortunately, for SPÖ and ÖVP, the Austrian interests of God always come last. We can and must also note this once again in the face of the EU surveillance shield. You say it always when the European Union adopts measures: Brussels first! This is exactly your attitude, which you also live in this government. As a Federal Government, you are energetic and determined always when it comes to giving Austrian tax money to the European Union or to EU pleas banks or to the Member States, as is the case at present. This is the development that must now be seen in the so-called ‘EU rescue shield package’. This is an "EU Speculant Assistance Package", which will be decided by your side, Federal Chancellor Faymann, nothing else: an EU guarantee for EU plea banks, for creditors to be removed from the drawing. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] That's reality. With the contractual fixation of the so-called Euro Protection and Rescue Screen and the simultaneous increase of the same, something is happening, which no Austrian can be right. We will become debtors for bankruptcy countries such as Greece, Portugal or Ireland – at a lifetime and beyond. Mr Bundeskanzler, you do not even find it worth informing Parliament accordingly and sufficiently. You do not even find it worth making a statement. You believe that in the shadow of crisis events in North Africa and the Middle East or also of dramatic developments in Japan – silent, quiet and away from the public – you can make such incredible decisions almost on your own and without public debate. Without a big talk about it, Federal Chancellor Werner Faymann, you have over the night agreed to extend this euro-saving and detention shield without If and But in the European Union. The few opponents, such as Finland, who have opposed themselves, have not received any support from you. Now, Austria is expected to make €2.2 billion in immediate payments – plus €20 billion of liabilities in addition to EU pleas banks, creditors, EU Member States, after you have already decided on a €100 billion bank guarantee package for Austria, with €15 billion, so to speak, as an immediate capital. After you have 15 billion € – our Austrian taxpayers! – have already transferred there for a Greece bank assistance package and have decided to have a liability package of €15 billion and have made additional €2.2 billion in emergency payments and the National Bank has paid silently and quietly €4 billion in addition to a Greece bank aid package, it is now expected to make another €20 billion in liabilities plus these €2.2 billion in Austrian tax money. It's inconceivable! Last year alone, we paid €8.4 billion to cash, to Austrian taxpayers and paid. There you have to cry out clearly and clearly! This is a mass expropriation of the Austrians who are taking place here. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Then it is no longer surprising if you try with massive tax burdens to continue to “snap ” your own population. That's the reality. And what's threatening? – The European Union states that in 2012 the 3-percent deficit should not be exceeded. It also states, however, that outsourced areas such as ÖBB and ASFINAG will have to be included in the budget in the future. Yes, how do you intend to maintain the 3-percent deficit in any way in view of these gifts of money to EU plea banks? Next year a huge burden budget is threatening for the Austrian population. That's the truth. You're going with our taxpayers pretty sloppy and loose, Mr. Federal Chancellor! If you are talking about a 'euro-saving screen' today, this is a pure propaganda and also a cover-up of the facts, because in reality it is a liability shield for banks and insurance companies and for the Head of State of Bankruptcy! That's the truth, and that's what you're trying to cover up with. By all means, it is tried to prevent a marketable solution, namely the failure of the claim in the context of the reorganisation of the debtor. To do this, you will also use the schine argument of the euro rescue. The term ‘euro-saving’ includes yes, the euro is in the middle of a very dramatic crisis. This is where the Scheina argument that is being put forward to the citizens of the euro area will try to ensure that their euro and thus their assets will be secured by this rescue shield. But that is not the right thing, but the opposite is the case. The saving of the assets of banks and insurance companies inevitably leads to a reduction in the assets and also to the savings of citizens. Citizens lose wealth, they lose savings. You must face debts because they are taken into responsibility by your decision, because non-valued claims are just taken over or secured by the state. This is a mass expropriation of the Austrians, but also of the other European citizens. Let's say what it's like: The Euro Rescue Screen and Rescue Package is, in fact, a off-socket package. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That's it: a special class pick-up package, which will sell us SPÖ and ÖVP and increase Austria's government debt dramatically. We are allowed to pay very well in the pleite states and pleite banks of Europe, and at the end of the day even hyperinflation threatens to occur as a result of these measures, which you take and support here. I quote Christian Ortner. March 2011 in the “Presse” wrote the following: ‘The Republic of Austria will in future be liable for the unolid EU partners in financial matters with abject amounts.’ I'm trying to add: These are those partners in the European Union who have not complied with the EU criteria. Ortner writes: “She doesn’t get anything but hot air for that. Thank you, Werner Faymann!" And then we're going to go on: “The worst business ever made by an Austrian chancellor.” But probably you'll be back today and say, A great business! The more billions we pump in there, the more we will get back on interest! – You have already tried to play it in this incredibly cynical way of the population. The so-called Euro Rescue is nothing but another bank-bail-out, but it has been promised to the citizens that no further bank-bail-out will be charged to taxpayers. This promise was immediately broken twice: First of all, the Euro arrest is again fully charged to the taxpayer, without the compulsive involvement of the creditors and speculators – that is the reality! – and secondly, the promise is broken by the Austrian taxpayer from the acquisition of a Polish bank by Raiffeisen, despite the fact that billions of losses remain in the balance sheets of Austrian banks. Again: The liability shield will not help the euro, nor the countries concerned, nor the Greeks, nor the Irish, nor the Portuguese. This liability shield supports and preserves the financial sector – essentially the banks – from bankruptcy. That's reality. That's a Euro-Pyramid system in the financial market, established here, which withdraws from any democratic and national control, but also any market control. Thus its end is also foreseeable. How do the Austrian people get into their pockets and finally continue to be burdened? With which legitimation, Mr. Bundeskanzler, gave away You're the money of the Austrian taxpayers? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] When will the referendum take place, which you have announced in writing in a letter great and grandiose vis-à-vis the largest daily in Austria? This is an incisive amendment to the Treaty of Lisbon. You promised, but you don't hear anything like that anymore. We call for a referendum on this euro-debt shield due to this incisive change in the Lisbon Treaty, which is to move towards the Transfer Union. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The Austrians have a right to decide what to do with their hard-earned money, which should happen to their savings. Weak economies must immediately be released from the euro zone into their old currencies. That would be the necessary measure that could save us, but not this package that you have promised and want to decide here. We need bank bankruptcy instead of bank debt due to our taxpayers' money. In such a situation, there is also a return to Schilling – until then, one has to think of discussing a community with the Swiss franc or the creation of an EU hard currency zone. You have to think about it. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I come to the conclusion: Austria is being led into the abyss by this red and black pro-pore and EU justice government. I say: We need ways other than the means of stress that you decide and take here.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e4465	Mr Bundeskanzler spoke on a preliminary opinion. The speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please, Federal Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e4486	Madam President. Dear Secretary of State! Honourable Members! High house! The debate on the protection of the euro is very important and important. That is why I do not want to spend long time with individual figures, since I know that the information provided by the European Council – perhaps in the run-up to the European Council in the future – has been improved to all Parliamentary parties in so far as we know that both the temporary protective shield EFSF of €440 billion and the permanent protective shield with a loan capacity of €500 billion is known to the honourable Member. [[Abg. Bucher: That would be important!]] I would therefore rather look at the importance of this euro protection and what it means to Austria or the European Union in the future. First of all, we are right in Europe to compare that we have managed the crisis in Austria particularly well, with “gone” sounding a bit as if it had already been over. Before this adoption, I would warn, but everything we have put into action has led us to be among the countries with the lowest unemployment and to be back in the positive upturn in economic growth. Now, of course, one has to be aware that this includes many of the measures that we have decided in Austria – on the part of the government, but partly also by a large majority here in the House. There are also a number of measures when, for example, we are talking about growth and jobs in relation to our positive external trade balance, in which, of course, the euro, the common currency, plays a special role. It is also true that, in my view, the introduction of the euro has given particular priority to the aspect of a common, stable currency, a common European project in that respect, that the majority of trade – including external trade – actually takes place in the single market Europe and that the great success of exports is actually taking place in the European Union, both for Austria and Germany and for other countries. It is therefore, of course, logical to say: How can these common, strong trade relations also be managed with a currency which is more stable than it was previously through the various national currencies? Of course, if you start such a project, you also have to admit – where there is a lot of sunshine – that the diversity of countries in the European Union, the difference in the subject of shadow economy, tax systems, economics, social conditions, framework conditions, could not be greater. Therefore, the introduction of the single currency – and this is known to everyone – means that we have been able to act more stablely in trade relations and more valuablely in the corresponding currency, but the introduction of a common currency has not yet meant that the framework conditions for economics or even social things are already aligned. Therefore, a common currency must first be introduced in a large part of the European Union and then convergence, coordination, economic government, as always the terms mean, must be brought about – a laborious way over many years. But I'm not so presumptuous to say: Well, then we should have done everything at the same time! because I know that at the time of the introduction of a common currency, of course, at the time – some of us from this circle have been very active in this – much has spoken about starting the project first. It is now our task to do what at that time played a too little role in the introduction of the single currency, namely to bring about the approximation of the different conditions of those countries, which then also become a certain dependency on a single currency. This coordination, this merger, is a task of the next few months, I hope not for years, because of course I know that there is a lot to be done here in terms of approximations. [[Members of the BZÖ shall hold up to the height of the orange plates with the title “Featured benefit”.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Enoughly paid, Federal Chancellor!]] But now it is quite clear that we have managed the crisis so well and have achieved the success of growth, because this single currency, because the protective shield, because the activities in the European Union have also meant a protection, not only for the banks. You just need to think away from this protection and ask yourself what would have been, you would have said: What is Greece's concern, what is Ireland's concern, what is the euro for us at all? One can quite well imagine what would have been if one had not achieved the economic programmes and all the other measures.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e4536	Mr. Bundeskanzler, please wait a minute. Ladies and gentlemen of the BZÖ, the signs are shown here. I can ask you to put her back in. – Mr Bundeskanzler, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e4554	I saw it. You are very proud of your Taferls – I have seen them well. We simply need to note that the protection shield and the stability of the euro have also brought benefits – in addition to the disadvantages we all know – for our labour market, for growth, for security in Europe, also for Austria. This means, of course, that at least one side of the medal is to be illuminated, which, as I believe, is crucial for further development. What does it mean, then, to say consistently, that the euro is nothing more to us, and we do not want to participate in the common protection shield? What would that mean in consistent further development? It would mean, then, that we should consistently say goodbye to this currency that Austria would be in an isolated situation. While you, Mr Strache, read the same article of Christian Ortner to me for the second time, I could bring you many quotations, which would mean saying goodbye to the euro and bringing Austria into isolation. These quotes from the Oesterreichische National Bank, the Wifo, of economic scientists are very clearly made aware of what this means, for example, by weakening speculation, how quickly the foreign exchange reserves would have been used up, which would mean for support purchases, for shock waves from the exit et cetera, which would mean for investment. [[Abg. Neubauer: See lobbyists! There we have had “good ” experiences!]] [[Abg. Strache: See Swiss francs, where this is not the case!]] Mr Strache, the difference with the Swiss franc is, of course, the different development, and you can't pretend that the Swiss have not been in for decades, I think, a total of 300 agreements with the European Union are trying to negotiate very much of what we, as a member country and as a country in the euro zone, naturally, are in the lead, and they are also in new negotiations. Just going out of a currency does not mean taking over the Swiss situation, but means driving the country into a catastrophic isolation and into a risk. For such an adventure we are not ready, this is an adventure in the wrong direction! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Now, as the Austrian head of government, I would not have proposed this Treaty amendment – I did not propose it either – because I believe that the previous protective shield, which has performed an important function, needs to be extended and that the previous protective shield has not required any change in the Treaty from the point of view of Austria. [[Abg. New builder: Courageless you are!]] Therefore, in the opinion of all the legal services available to us – I do not ask the Party Secretary of your party, I ask those responsible for legal issues in the Republic – is a permanent establishment of a shield without any change in the Treaty. [[towards FPÖ]] The experts also pointed out very clearly and in all their opinions that Germany is in a situation other than Austria because of its provisions. [[Abg. Strache: See German Constitutional Experts!]] Austria would not have needed this change in the Treaty. So much about the importance of this Treaty amendment. It has a great importance for Germany, and we had to choose this procedure because otherwise Germany could not have participated in the further process of a permanent protective shield. That is why the change in the Treaty in the European Union has been supported by those countries which would not at all need it or need it at all: in view of those countries, above all Germany, who need it out of a different legal situation from their constitutional situation. This discussion is too important to be able to deal with it in 10 minutes. There is sufficient room for this in the discussion. I am convinced that information and contacts must also be improved. [[Abg. Bucher: But you can make an effort! A little more effort could be made!]] Finally, I would just like to clarify one more issue. If the Austrian federal railways, if sometimes also parts of banks, are included in the debt levels, this does not mean that this has something to do with the 3-percent deficit, but then it has to do with the so-called 60-percent target. So many things would be clarified if one were to make a serious debate. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. New builder: He was good!]] I am in favour of serious debates and hope that the future of the European Union and the stability of the currency are so much worth us together that we are having serious debates.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e4675	I draw attention to the fact that the speaking time of all other participants of the current hour according to § 97a Abs. 6 of the Rules of Procedure shall not exceed 5 minutes. Mr Klubobmann, Dr. Cap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e4707	Only courage for chaos is the wrong courage, Mr Intervener, I would like to tell you right away. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Strache: The chaos is in physical shape behind you, Mr. Cap!]] The question is simple and simple: Cui bono – who benefits from it? Does it use Austria or does it not benefit Austria? And the basic decision was: If there is a common currency, that is why – and this is in the interests of Austria – so that we are more competitive, more stable. These would be discussions in the House if we were still split into countless European currencies and were the object of individual large speculators! Then the question no longer arises, Mr Klubobmann Strache, whether the taxpayer then loses a bit or whether there is tax money inside a bit, but then that comes to bear what the older generations in Austria have ever experienced, namely economic collapse, bank failure and loss of savings books – and before that, it is in the interest of Austria to ensure! [[Abg. Bitch: “A bit of what”?! Are “only” 150 billion!]] [[Abg. Strache: We are experiencing that right now!]] [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Höbart: Who brought us there?]] You know, a call is not a concept yet. What would interest me: Where is the alternative concept of those who practice great criticism here? [[Abg. Breach:... Hard-currency countries a monetary union!]] Where is it? Working with half-truths is too little. This is not primarily about a major goal, but about the simple objective that Austria can have in international competition – together in a large economic area, jointly secured exports, jointly secured the economic location, jointly secured that there is employment and economic growth. [[Abg. Straight: There are, unfortunately, negative developments in all areas to account for the record unemployment that you have to answer today!]] That is exactly what we have to answer for in our constituencies! Not air bubbles are solutions, but very concrete proposals and actions. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I quote from the “Berliner Zeitung” of the 29th century. March – a similar debate also exists in Germany – I quote... – No, no! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Höbart.]] It is not paid here for money that disappears in return, but it is a common pot, and only through joint decisions will this money be released. In addition, this money should also return – that is the perspective. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Strache: This is even the worst joke!]] I'd like your humor. You can laugh when we can finally talk about your concepts. [[Abg. Strache: The Greeks will refund us this at double interest rates?! The Greek surpluses?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. Ing. Höbart: A barrel without soil is that!]] I have not heard any speech from you yet on the EU and Euro Rescue Screen, with which you can start something and which, so to speak, contains a serious criticism. In the end, nothing more comes to your mind than to say that we will either become a soft or a hard currency zone, so always only the apocalyptic images – which is not even an apocalyptic image. You should just say what your proposal is. I'll tell you: They are measured by what is the optimal way for Austria at the end of the day. There the Heads of Government sat down and put a solution model on the table. There must, of course, be accompanying measures – but you didn't say that today. That's the screen now. But what needs to be done now is still many other reforms and changes so that we can get to the root of the problem. These are, among other things, the irregular financial markets, and there are rules to be made for credit rating agencies. This is an important perspective. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Don't always cry that way! I think I'm here as if I'm in every other place, just not in Parliament. Listen in peace, write a little bit, talk and say something about it, and then debate will be over. We're not a grölccus! We need to make these measures objectively and precisely, and we hope that the other European countries will do the same. There are different developments, but we always knew that. We always knew, there is the Austrian model, there is Greece, there is France, there is Germany – everyone knew that. We face the challenges of economic development, wage development, technical developments in China, India, America, the major economic zones in the world, and we all said that as Austrians we only have a chance to secure our welfare level, our social and health levels if we are inside this large economic area and nowhere else else. And for that we need the common currency. I find it irresponsible to say here today that this is almost just a chaos strategy, and ask who even needs the common currency, when at last the schilling comes back and so on. This is unconceivable, does not lead us further and is a game with the fate of Austria – and we are not there!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e4925	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Stummvoll. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e4947	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. State Secretary! High house! First of all, I would like to address colleagues from the Freedom Party. I think you will have a double problem with this current hour. The question is identical to that of the current hour of you on 20. January. It is an illusion to believe that false arguments are becoming correct because they are repeated over and over again. This is an illusion, ladies and gentlemen, really an illusion. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] The second problem is that I like to admit that you can score superficially with the three “P” – populism, polemics, political spectacle. But the critical voters are geared to facts and facts, ladies and gentlemen, and I may be able to address them. What's that really about? You want to have a referendum on the euro-saving screen, i.e. a change in the Treaty, on Article 136 of the EU Treaty, which contains the following sentence: The Member States of the eurozone may set up a stability mechanism which will be activated if this is essential to the stability of the euro. If this is absolutely necessary – you don't want it? Do you know what the alternative is? The alternative is money depreciation. If the euro is not stable, we have money withdrawal. [[Abg. The weak economies are discharged from the eurozone, that would be the consequence, and not, of our citizens!]] Mr Strache, please note: The euro is not an evil currency in Brussels. The euro is our money, these are our wages and salaries, our pensions, our savings. This is the euro, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Your alternative would mean devaluation, Mr. Strache. And let's be honest: If you really look at the euro neutral, the euro has already made a three-fold sample. First: Remember the height of the financial crisis. An American credit rating agency and an American Nobel laureate have said that Austria is on the verge of pleite. This was, of course, completely wrong, but the financial markets were very irritated at the time. [[Abg. Street: Like Swiss francs! Of course!]] If we had not had the euro, a massive speculation against the schilling would have entered into force, and we would have looked at it, Mr Strache! So the euro was also a lifeguard for us. Second example: Our prosperity depends on 60 percent of exports. 60 percent of our products go to export. [[Abg. May. Stefan: And how was the economic upturn in front of the euro? The economy hasn't gone any worse!]] Export means jobs, i.e. income, social security. Ask You exporters: In the 15 years from 1980 to 1995 we had 20 currency depreciations! Do you know what that meant? – Permanent uncertainty, constant uncertainty for jobs, for exporters, for our economy. They are grateful that we now have stable monetary relations. [[Abg. Bucher: What have we had for economic growth?]] The third example: Inflation. Governor Novotny rightly pointed this out some time ago – only facts and facts –: In the ten years before the introduction of the euro, the inflation rate was on average 2.2 percent, with an average of 1.7 percent in the first ten years following the introduction of the euro. An excellent testimony to the stability of the euro in terms of inflation, Mr Strache. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bitch.]] That's data and facts, that's not a polemic. Let me also say the following: Of course, we all know that this euro-saving-screen, which is actually a stability mechanism, should only be a fishing net, which is not a hammock. It is true that the countries concerned need to implement tough rehabilitation measures. See Portugal: The government has resigned because it is so hard. We know exactly that the financial markets will not calm down until they see that these countries – Greece, Portugal, Ireland – are bringing their state finances in order. That's not a question at all. This is not a hammock, but it is a fishing net so that our euro does not get into turbulence, Mr Strache. These are the pure facts, that's not a polemic. And if you don't want to, I'll say it again: The alternative is devaluation of the euro. [[Abg. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] Mr Strache: “For they do not know what they are doing.” [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] If today a country separates from the eurozone, for example Greece, there is a massive speculation against the drachma worldwide. Do you know what that means? That means we have a domino effect. If we look today at which countries – Germany, France, Italy, for example, we too – are involved in Greece, for example, with billions: We now have a domino effect and we have the biggest economic crisis! It would be even bigger than those we already have behind us. Mr Strache, please! I'd like to be ready, let's get together. Solution You are about your cheap polemics, we are discussing facts and facts, and you will be a convinced supporter of the rescue shield – because I don't want you to assume that you are for money depreciation.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e5075	Next speaker: Mr Themessl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e5097	Madam President. Gentlemen on the government bank! High house! Values Advisors! You know, Dr. stupid, false arguments don't get any better if you repeat them, the question is: What arguments are wrong? [[Abg. Dr. stupid: yours!]] For example, the Federal Chancellor today stressed and also admitted that it would have been more reasonable to inform beforehand of what is being negotiated and decided in Brussels, and not just afterwards. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Krainer and Mr Mag. Rudas.]] But this has had a reason: He did this afterwards, because it had led to an uproar before – and this government in Brussels has never negotiated at all. It flies to Brussels, says to all Yes and Amen, fills a barrel without soil – follow-up – and that's how it goes. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] - That's exactly the point. Mr Cap, the only thing I'm right about is that all the irregular financial markets are to blame, but in this respect you are not doing anything. If you were to negotiate in Brussels, we would have to go a long way! And it's interesting what the euro has to do with everything. The euro must stand for stability, security and, and, – That’s not true! Our clubman has clearly shown you this, and this is what experts en masse tell you: This is nothing but the wrong debt policy of certain countries in the EU and the rescue of banks. Nothing else is that, and not a euro rescue package! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What I don't understand is the following: Now this Federal Government employs a whole host of experts – from economic experts, from financial experts, from IHS to WIFO and as they all call – and the majority of these experts tell you that the way is wrong is the wrong one. Now we come to the wrong arguments, Dr. Cap! With regard to the wrong arguments, the question arises: On which side are the wrong arguments? – You can discuss this, but the majority of your experts you always refer to and repeatedly draw advice raise your finger and tell you: This path is the wrong one, because it inevitably leads to the need for us to permanently increase these rescue shields and that this is a barrel without soil to do nothing but save the irregular financial market. Nothing else is that! Let's take what you decided here – now it's about cash. Let us put Greece aside, for which we have already done a lot of billions with liabilities and cash payments. Not a single Greek, not a single Irish, not a single Portuguese has only one cent of what you do there, on the contrary! Their own governments in Greece, Ireland, Portugal have been forced – rightly forced – to put their budget in order, that is, to burden their own population to the point of no longer going. Everything we've sent down there doesn't help them a deuce. That is, we are burdening our own people, sending down money, and they are still being taxed. I'll tell you: We are no longer so far away from this situation in Greece, Ireland and Portugal when I read in the press today that it is already fixed that €3.4 billion of outsourced debt to the €200 billion we already have will be included in the Maastricht criteria – you have addressed the 60 percent limit, Mr. Bundeskanzler; from that we are miles away – and at €21.5 billion of outsourced debt the decision is still open, that is, the decision will be taken whether they will be included. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stefan]] If that is the case, then at the end of the year we have a debt not €200 billion, but already of € 225 billion, and then you can look at where your 60 percent mastricht limit has remained. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. May. Stefan.]] The following is added, Mr Bundeskanzler: They determine the payments in such a way that they begin with June 2013. The next regular elections for this High House will take place in autumn 2013. In other words, you are already burdening the future German government with an additional €450 million in cash payments per year over the next five years. Now I am excited how you would like to communicate how you redefine your budget framework, because you have adopted a budget framework law by the year 2014. That's not true anymore! Where, then, do you take the additional €450 million annually, which will then burden the budget from 2013 onwards? I am sorry for this now, who will follow you as Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany in the autumn of 2013, because this already belongs to the bravery medal, because it is absolutely impossible to clean up this soup. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What you're doing here is not responsible! They not only burden future generations, but make it absolutely impossible for a future federal government to continue this state only half normal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e5178	Mr Van der Bellen has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e5200	Look, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, we are dealing here with a highly complex matter, where we can be of different opinion with good arguments. It is not true that one of us here would have leased the truth and the wisdom. There are, in fact, several questions that arise, which cannot be answered yet. But one thing is fixed for me: What comes about here with the so-called European Stability Mechanism is something big. [[Call the ÖVP: Right! That's right!]] This is the core, the nucleus of a European Monetary Fund. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] This may be the case for cohesion in the European Union – hopefully! – Something very important, regardless of the fact that various questions are open – I am already with you, but you can't just do that as a speculant help package as you called it. With two things, I'm quite with you: It is incomprehensible why the Federal Chancellor and a representative of the Minister of Finance have not made a statement today. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Exactly!]] After the European Council last weekend, it would have been really right and important to hear a statement by the two ministers concerned today. [[Congratulation with greens, FPÖ and BZÖ.]] The European Council last weekend was by no means just about this so-called ESM, but it was also about the so-called “Pact for the Euro”; recently it was called “Pact for the Euro plus” or something similar. A rather questionable matter, but good. Wherever I am with you, the term ‘euro rescue shield’ is totally misleading. You're perfectly right. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz.]] Federal Chancellor Merkel recently on German television: We saved the euro. - That's bullshit! The euro as a currency was never at risk, the euro as a currency was also not at risk by the Greek pleite, by which not even 2% of the EU GDP is debated here. [[Call: Not yet]] That's all nonsense. But that this would be a speculant aid package, Mr. Strache, that is not true either. You are right that until now – and we have discussed this more often here – the creditors – the banks, the pension funds and so on have gone unscathed, that was a problem of the previous regulation, the so-called EFSF, but that must already be brought together, just as you and colleague Themessl were talking about the ESM earlier, and not a word not to lose a single word about the fact that, in the future, the private creditors will first come up with insolvent public debt. That's something new. [[Abg. Strache: Not mandatory! Not mandatory!]] Only since December last year has the EU officially admitted that a state's insolvency is possible at all. In my opinion, Greece has been insolvent for a year – I can be wrong; everyone can be wrong in these things. I think they are insolvent, I believe that the private creditors could have been used for a so-called haircut, for a “haircut”, as it is called in English. Only you can't make illusions that this is free for us. Then we might have had to get back to affected banks with corresponding billions of them – these are just these unpleasant decisions. But in the ESM, it is in principle provided that when an analysis shows that the debt is not viable, as it is said in Jargon, to conduct negotiations with private creditors, and only then, when the private creditors have got a haircut, can the ESM take action at all, Mr. Strache. [[Abg. Street: All voluntary, not mandatory!]] This is quite different from the previous regulation. It is also not right that the money of the Austrian taxpayers – or the German, French et cetera taxpayers – is donated here, for several reasons: First of all, it's loans. – Okay, if the debtors can’t pay for credit, some of it’s lost, that’s right, but it’s loans that are awarded here. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] Secondly, The ESM's loans will have “priority”, priority over private creditors, which is something new from the previous regulations. First, the loans from the IMF, the International Monetary Fund, will be used, then the European Monetary Fund and then, finally, the private creditors. What this will do in the financial markets, higher risk premiums and so on, we shall see that, that is an open question. Thirdly and finally, Mr Strache: The decision whether the ESM will be active on grants is taken unanimously in the so-called Board of Governors – unanimously! Even the Austrian Finance Minister has a veto right there if you want. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: “Na bumm!”]] [[Abg. Strache: Do you have the hope of this Minister of Finance?]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] So that's all the arrangements where you shouldn't talk about giving money to Austrian, French or German taxpayers, that's just wrong.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e5362	Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann Bucher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e5384	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Professor Van der Bellen, the word “Veto” certainly does not appear in the language, in the Jargon and vocabulary of this Federal Government. That was the case in the past. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] But, Mr President, after you have given us your communication needs with your very brief statement and opinion on the billions of promises you made in Brussels a few days ago, we will now give you the opportunity to comment in detail on the billions of waste you have committed in the afternoon during a urgent question. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] You can already make an effort to cancel all the dates today, to prepare yourself thoroughly for it and to get a position here in the afternoon, at 3 p.m., as part of our urgent request. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] And of course, Mr Bundeskanzler, you made a promise to the Austrians, as read in a “Krone” letter in 2008: If there are any future changes to the Treaty at European level, then you are in favour of a referendum. Mr. Bundeskanzler, such a “fontierl” can become a “gifterl”. I hope you will take this to heart in the future and distance yourself from any letters – although that is traditional in the SPÖ: We know this from the era of Vranitzky, when, before any national elections, federal elections always received letters, for example, to pensioners' associations or elsewhere. [[Call:Pensionist letter]] At some point, the population will realize that lies are propaganda and only election tactics and that there is no real, serious political intention behind them, ladies and gentlemen! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This permanent rescue shield is, of course, a change in the Lisbon Treaty, and you, Mr Bundeskanzler – and the ÖVP is included in it – will not avoid a binding referendum, because the next referendum will be determined – and that will be the National Council election. [[Abg. That's right!]] Ladies and gentlemen! There the people will give you a departure for this unscrupulous waste of money that you are doing here. [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] They always tell us, it's about €2.3 billion. - Everyone who was in the economy knows: If you don't have the money, you can not only talk about the loan amount, but you also have to add the interest rates. And if you add the interest of the money you don't have – these €2.3 billion – then you will end up with a sum of €3.6 billion. That is really the amount! This is the amount of credit you have to finance – money that we do not have in Austria, money that you have to receive from the international investors, ladies and gentlemen. At a banking minister Pröll, who stands up and says: My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this can become a business for the Republic! You really have to worry seriously, not only about your health, but also about other things. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Repeated by Cap!]] – On this occasion: Good improvement to the Minister for Finance, I say that in all openness and honesty. But, ladies and gentlemen, what the EIA understands in the private sector and politics is what we have seen in the last few days, because it is not only the EU's rescue shield that has been discussed, but an EIA arrest screen that will be beating in the next few days and weeks when we look at the withdrawals of the mandates at European level. [[Abg. Hörl: Carinthia...!]] This is where the ÖVP really needs a lifeguard, or, better said, a parachute, because after the next elections you must be interested in gently landing, because you will be appalled by the politics you present to the Austrians, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This Greek disaster will cost you even more – or the Austrians – because the money paid in here is lost money, Mr. Bundeskanzler, take note of this at last! Enough paid! [[Members of the BZÖ keep up - to - date orange tablets with the title “Faith paid! ”]] Enough paid for marode EU countries, enough paid for marode banks! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] They send euro printed by car to Greece, return refugees to Austria and to the European Union. This is your European policy, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, and on the other hand, we are holding back. That's the wrong way we don't want to go. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We are therefore saying: Clarify us! Clarify what is actually behind this competition pact, behind this wage dumping, which is being carried out here, behind this common wage policy, behind this common tax policy, ladies and gentlemen. In the end, the following will come out: We pay more for the European Union so that we can earn less under the heading. [[BZÖ and Abg. Bitch.]] This is the key statement of your European policy, Federal Chancellor. Put that to the fore, as it were! End this EU and Euro experiment! We need a European core zone to ensure that the euro is viable and that Austria's competitive location is safeguarded, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e5520	Next speaker: Mr Krainer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e5552	Madam President. I think it is really necessary to have a certain seriosity and not just a pure superficial populism used on this issue, because it is too serious, and in addition, one also has to lose some edifying words. [[Abg. Hagen: Your speech is already stowed!]] [[Abg. Strache: The Albert Fortell of Financial Policy!]] The first point is: Here no money is sent or donated anywhere and anyone determines this money. – One of my previous speakers, Professor Van der Bellen said clearly: What happens here is that a body decides on the basis of the case whether any aid is provided, and there Austria sits at the table, and the decisions in this body are taken unanimously. That is, we don't give anyone any money, and he does with what he wants, but we sit there at the table and decide on what conditions loans are even granted. The second point: It is no longer true that what was an essential criticism in the past, those who have speculated on high yields – the private individuals, banks, pension funds, insurances, sometimes also speculators – are not asked to register. That is exactly what is new at the ESM, that it is here that private investors, when it comes to the inability of states – if a state has such high debt that it can no longer repay these debts alone, but needs the help of others – must make a contribution. You also do not mention this with a word and, of course, have an absolutely unsavory debate. [[Abg. Street: Exclusively voluntary and not mandatory!]] No, this is an obligation for all states to incorporate it into their contracts, so that there is clarity for investors and every investor must already sign: Yes, I have to make a contribution when it comes to inability to pay. [[Abg. May. Stefan: As before: All states must comply with contracts!]] [[Abg. Strache: As before, because...!]] The third is also essential: If a state has payment difficulties and he has borrowed money from the other states in Europe via the ESM, then the chief believer, that is, he must pay them back the debt first before he repays third parties, such as banks, insurances or other debts. This means a priority, an absolute priority of these debts over all other debts. If you want to debate this seriously, you have to say these three things, because the main criticisms of the past – in the case of old networks, in the case of old shields – have been wiped out here, and this is an essential progress that leads to much more security. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: It's always bad to believe your own propaganda!]] [[Abg. May. Stefan: And what about Greece?]] We all know: From 2013 onwards, there is only this rescue shield, and from then on these aids will only work under these conditions, and that is good and we support it anyway. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If this is to be criticized: We only pay one and then get nothing out!, I'll tell you: I hope that we will never find out that we – vice versa – never get into the situation that we need money from this lifeguard! [[Abg. Bucher:... is the money?]] I would also like to do the following, quite honestly: I also have a fire insurance and am very happy to pay in there and hope that I will never get money from fire insurance – nor do I envy those who get money from fire insurance! [[Abg. Bucher: There is also a death insurance!]] I'm glad I don't get it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: You can tell Mrs. Schmauswaberl!]] The alternative you bring here is essentially: The markets are supposed to do this, the markets have to do it. [[Abg. May. Stefan: One lay the fire, the other pay the insurance!]] You quote the Christian Ortner here. I'd quote that permanently. This is the one who has explained to us for years: State is bad, all privatising is good, almost the financial markets never err, the state just cannot intervene. – In fact, these are exactly the ones that have contributed to this crisis by their totally irresponsible nature. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Strache: You hang the debt of the public! The private debt is now up to the public!]] One may well believe that the markets are good, they regulate everything, and in the last great world economic crisis, that was also a common sense, namely to say, that is already fine, what is happening, the markets will find a healthy way here. But let's see what happened back then. What happened to the last great world economic crisis, where everyone put their hands in the bag and watched what happened? Do you want this situation that we had in the 1930s? If you want such unemployment, do you want to have such a bank death as in the 1930s? [[Abg. Strache: But that's where you lead us! That's where you're leading us with your policy!]] I'm glad we learned from it and we said: We're not watching. We do not look on as governments, as politics and state, as this happens, but we are against it. [[Abg. Street: With your policy you lead us precisely into this madness! With your policy, you're leading us right there!]] And that this is successful, you see. What was two or three years after the outbreak of the crisis for unemployment in Austria in the 1930s? [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] 500,000! What do we have now? [[Abg. Street: 500,000! 500 000 with the early pensioners! Get some information!]] We have lower unemployment than those we had a few years ago than you were in the government. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The economic situation is much better, and it is good that we pursue a policy that we do not look at, but say we intervene and we prevent bad growth, as we have seen in the past. And we support that anyway.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e5806	Next speaker: Mr Auer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e5827	Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Chancellor! Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank you for your support. Madam President. So far, I have felt that there should be some basic consensus on very sensitive issues. Monetary policy is one of the most sensitive issues, I think, and with all the critical remarks – I have a certain understanding for the opposition – I would have expected at least some basic consensus. However, one has seen very clearly the difference between the BZÖ, the FPÖ and the colleague Van der Bellen, because, ladies and gentlemen, it is a difference whether someone wants to understand something, whether someone can argue or whether someone has read something. With two parties, I do not have the impression that they have understood what it was all about. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Bucher: At SPÖ and ÖVP!]] Ladies and gentlemen, there would have to be so much responsibility – in all the critical debate. I know people whose grandparents and great-grandparents have lost all the money in these turbulences in the 1920s and 1930s, who have lost everything because the states have not acted here because at that time they could not or wanted to coordinate, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Strache: That's where you lead us!]] [[Abg. Strache: Just there you will lead us with your policy! If you are serving the speculators today, take us right there!]] It is therefore up to us here to ensure coordination, security and stability of the euro, of money. It is also the safeguarding of the purchasing power of the Austrians. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Every agitation against the euro, ladies and gentlemen, is populism, is insecure. [[Abg. Strache: Maybe the opposition is due to the euro crisis, or what?]] Let us be honest, ladies and gentlemen, because you are so critical of Austrian stability, jobs and so on in danger: Do you know how much percentage of all employees in Austria depend on exports? You know that? – 60 percent of all employees depend directly and indirectly on the export figures! We should therefore do all we can to ensure that this export will continue to be secured in the future so that exporters can also export, because this will ensure jobs, not only economic power, not only companies but also jobs. This is certainly a crucial question, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The economic performance in the euro zone is at least 20.6 percent of the world's economic performance, that of the Americans, the USA, 20.2 percent, that of the Chinese 13.3 percent. This also shows the meaning. And since some think that everything is right, what journalists write in this way, there would also be other articles – the Federal Chancellor rightly pointed out – but by experts, by economic professors who clearly confirm the way that is going to go here, the common path. Above all, ladies and gentlemen, it is interesting that China, today the second largest economic power and economic power in the world, buys up euro bonds. Why do you think you don't have any confidence? [[Abg. May. Stadler: Because the dollar is totally on the ground!]] Why should you not have confidence if you have no interest in having the EU as a partner and, accordingly, the euro as a safe, stable currency, ladies and gentlemen? I wonder. Why do you think? [[Abg. Strache: That's a bad argument!]] A bad argument? Tell me a better one, Mr. Strache. [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] You know, ladies and gentlemen, you can argue about everything, it doesn't matter, it doesn't matter. One can argue, but above all one should discuss a little about the needs, and in the stability of the currency one should come back to the reality. That would be advisable to you, perhaps also to us – that is not at all a question, I confirm – but it is now, ladies and gentlemen. If you're honest, how's Switzerland going now, because now the Frank is marching up? How's she doing? Ask medium-sized exporters, ask why one tries to ensure locations for the economy outside Switzerland, in the euro area. Because there are dramatic problems. [[Abg. Street: Switzerland does not have as high deficits as we do! Switzerland has not as high deficits as Austria!]] At the introduction of the euro it was interesting: All the cash-and-run calls have shown that it is not a real currency, but the euro is too soft, it would never stand against the dollar. 1.18 was the exchange rate. Then he was once at 1.60, there was a great feeling that he was too strong and too hard. It is best to benefit Austria's economy and ensure employment in Austria if it were in a exchange rate ratio between 1,20 and 1,30. [[Abg. Bucher: That's why it's done!]] We should be happy about this. We benefit from that.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e5987	Mr Podgorschek is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e6019	Madam President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Dear gentlemen on the Government Bank! Mr Auer, I remember that, when the euro was introduced, savings were reduced by a lot by a reduction in purchasing power. If you do not believe in me and believe that we have no idea of the economy, I should like to quote Professor Hank, a recognized professor of economics, who said, among other things: Would Germany be better there without the euro? Yes, without euro, we would have Swiss conditions, a thriving internal and not only export economy, low interest rates, less unemployed. With a trillion euro, the Federal Republic has financed the current account deficits of the Europartners, money that is missing elsewhere. The export industry forgets that it was benefited and not damaged by the D-Mark upgrade. - So Professor Hankel. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] However, I can also remember that it was said at the time of the introduction of the euro – it was expressly made a condition – that there should not be a rescue fund. The more we help, the less indebted countries are. This lifeguard is not supposed to be a full insurance against state insolvency. That's exactly what it's going to be: Some states from the south may be able to put themselves in a hammock. This debt mountain, which will arise there – I am firmly convinced of it, and the events of the last months have confirmed this – will ultimately be extorting Europe. It's normal when a country is insolvent, argues, gets, but then no shield helps. First and foremost, the banks have to give up. Professor Van der Bellen, you're perfectly right, first the banks have to be used. [[Abg. Strache: That's not what happens!]] Only, as we know, will these banks finally find some back door that they will withdraw from it. However, it cannot be that we are finally sleeping from a financial crisis into a state crisis. But this will happen if the public hand is increasingly interfering there. As an example, I can only mention Ireland. Ireland has made a debt promise two and a half times the gross social product two years ago. And what happened? – The banks all argued that we had a banking crisis in Ireland. And what has become of it? - A state crisis. Ireland had to go under this lifeguard. From our point of view, it is important that we set up a fire wall, otherwise Spain, Italy and whoever comes, and then we are all really in favour. In the United States, for example, there is this firewall. There are enough states that have been sent to insolvency in recent years, and yet the US has not been destroyed. You still have enough money to wage wars. [[Abg. Silhavy: Do you find it important that wars can be waged?]] – I assume that you understood my statement. [[Call the SPÖ:Yes, Teacher!]] But obviously not all here. [[Abg. Strache: That was meant in the negative sense!]] [[Abg. Dr. Oberhauser: Thank you for the explanation!]] [[Abg. Strache: If you don't understand!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] - Under four eyes. Europe needs, yes, I am right to give you, supervision of the financial system, but Europe does not need an economic government, because at the end of the day, this transfer union only supports the deficits of the southern countries, and the northern countries will have to pay. We are already on the best way for Austria to reach 10.5 billion of the 8.8 billion interest it has to pay in the future. I do not even want to talk about how far we are at the back of the administrative and structural reform. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I can quote Professor Hankel once again. On the question: Are the emerging summit decisions on euro-saving correct?, he says: It is unfair to describe these decisions as Euro-saving. It is a question of the value of demands from the financial sector to euro countries whose credit rating has become dubios. The aim is not to re-indebted but to avoid loss of depreciation among creditors through state guarantees. By the way: Today, Portugal has been upgraded – despite the Euro Rescue Screen, I can only mention it. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] Mr. Federal Chancellor, let me conclude by reminding you of what you yourself promised in your letter back then: On the basis of continuous information and open discussion, we believe that future Treaty changes affecting Austrian interests should be decided by a referendum in Austria. I'll give you the right. It may not have a legal dimension, but at least a political-ethical dimension.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e6139	Mr Mag. Kogler is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e6160	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! The subject of this present hour gives us the opportunity to once again highlight the behaviour and attitude of the German Federal Government and the Chancellor, but perhaps also that of the Group of the Liberals who have chosen this subject, and perhaps a short replication of the material core. Mr Bundeskanzler, it is already striking when the government and individual ministers push themselves into the house with statements, where it is not expected, where one may not even need it, while, after such an important decision of the European Council, nothing happens on your part, and that you have to make it happen about it, that the Liberal Group, with the theme of this current hour, challenges you to say something on a matter that is extremely important. I think that is a point where we meet with the liberals and the BZÖ. This is extremely important because, so to speak, it is about the establishment, at least in the economic core, of the founding requirements and the introduction of a European Monetary Fund. That is indeed an important thing. Only: They have nothing to do with this debate, because it is still up to you – and this is just the curse of evil deeds – that you are writing letters to a daily newspaper, which is of appropriate importance in Austria, instead of being serious about European political issues and, above all, European economic issues, taking an attitude and acting accordingly. That's what you're missing. Instead, you write letters of readers – the previous speaker has not been quite wrong: every letter a Giftl – and now you are in this situation. However, this has not been a contribution to a really successful performance in the sense that the Austrian Federal Government gives its opinion on monetary policy or also on European economic and financial policy. Now again at the heart of the matter. The new thing about the construction of this mechanism would be, colleagues from the FPÖ, that for the first time it would be possible for the private creditors to be drawn, because there is one of the main problems. [[Abg. Strache: But only theoretically! Just theoretically, practically not!]] So far, we have always had to take note – and I agree that this is a great distribution policy injustice if you want to – that, due to certain misunderstandings or mismanagements, in part, at the end of all these rescue packages, whatever names they have had, the European taxpayer and the European taxpayers have always and essentially come to hand. Not that with the new construction, there would not also be certain liability issues at the end if the banks in the individual countries were to get into a corresponding position, but there is a chance already, in any case, that it is at least possible in this way that the private people who have previously earned well – that is what it is about – and the banks at least have to contribute a part. So far, it hasn't been that way at all. So far, this was all a single tar mechanism, and that is why we were so skeptical about the so-called Greek rescue package, because the attempt was not even launched. Perhaps it was not possible until now that, as Mr Van der Bellen said, this “haircut” comes to mean that those who have been well deserved so far also take part. Now, with this new mechanism, there is at least the chance – by the way from 2013 – that we can achieve something in this direction. [[Abg. Strache: This is a purely theoretical opportunity! You're building on theory!]] That's the usual thing, that's the good thing about this story. But if you are already spitting so big tones – and I think you have not even been concerned with the referendum that the Chancellor of the Federal Republic has indeed promised, you are concerned about serving resentments; North versus south, which is down there and so on – I say quite openly to you, I am also nervous if I have to discover certain inefficiencies in the Greek economy and government administration – quite clearly, and there has certainly been a lot wrong – but the question is how we all get out again. And it is precisely that the European Union is also an economic community, and that is why something has to happen here. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] However, if we had acted in Austria as you propose, then Carinthia would have fallen back even further than it is already. The biggest debt we have here is that you have accumulated, and it is in your responsibility from the FPÖ. [[Abg. Dr. Strutz: Steiermark! Steiermark!]] They have looted a whole bank, and all Austrians pay for it, while there has been nothing paid for Greece.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e6229	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Stadler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e6250	Madam President. High house! [[The speaker presents a sign with the title “Failed Genug” on the speaker’s desk.]] It's good that the ORF is transferring this debate live. The audience has now experienced the following speakers: Speakers of the ÖVP, Jakob Auer, Raiffeisen Landesbank Upper Austria, are concerned about poor Switzerland, so says where the concerns are really settled. Poor Switzerland! I have remembered this from EU accession: There is still talk on the government bank about how fast Switzerland is going to get into the crisis. It's really touching! The Swisss shoot the tears from the face at a risk. Second speaker: Kai Jan Krainer from the SPÖ. He comes out and explains to Mrs Schmauswaberl how happy she can be that she can, so to speak, enter into this “fire insurance”, called the Euro Rescue Screen, how happy the little people can feel that the billions can be placed on the table of the house in Brussels. – Social democrats, you always have to say that, Fortell for small people. Josef Cap comes out and says what a great business that was. Dear Clubobmann Josef Cap, Greece was not a business. The last one who claimed that it was the Deputy Chancellor and Minister of Finance Josef Pröll, not Josef Cap, you did it today. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: I didn’t say “business”!]] But of course you told us how great that is, and that all comes back with interest. At the time, the vice chancellor has just said, it's such a business that you even have to wish for more and more states to fall into trouble. That's a great business! Today, Mr President, we have not heard any more of this from the ÖVP, by Mr Stummvoll – no more talk about it. Mr Schüssel even said in the Committee that it was careless to say such things at the time that it would have failed to say what risks were involved. Ladies and gentlemen on the screens! Greece is already starting to slip. [[Abg. Bookbooker: Portugal too!]] The term has been extended by half to seven and a half years, the interest rates have been reduced, and back we get nothing more. This is Greece, ladies and gentlemen. Your colleague Cap, you've kept this to the people. [[In the case of the BZÖ, as well as the members of the FPÖ.]] It turns out it was the wrong signal at the time. We told you. It was the wrong signal. Why? – The banking sector has not drawn any conclusions from the financial crisis of Numero on a reorganisation or change. On the contrary, banks can now rely on the fact that at the end of the day, the states will take over the rescue – the rescue of the banks that previously granted loans to the states. [[Abg. Bucher: The taxpayers!]] You can rest assured that at the end of the taxpayers the invoice must be paid because the European Union has so planned. Mr Van der Bellen, speaking of a European Monetary Fund, does not mean anything but to say to the banks that you should continue to do so, because the taxpayers will come to the end anyway. Ladies and gentlemen, d as is the so-called European Monetary Fund – and the taxpayer has nothing of that! [[In the case of the BZÖ, as well as the members of the FPÖ.]] Mr Krainer, Mrs Schmauswaberl is not happy that she is allowed to pay for all of this. She's got a anger now, and she's got it on you, too. Even your Chamber President Tumpel and your trade union president Foglar say that those who have to pay all of this are now also given rules by the European Union as much as they can still earn. You decided! – But, of course, at the Council meeting of 11 May. March. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Cap.]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: No, no!]] – But of course! At the last Council meeting, the extension of the duration for the Greeks was decided. I brought you the document, because it's on yours. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Ladies and gentlemen, here it is literally to be read, in the appendix on page 16 of the German translation – for all who do not know the English version. [[the speaker shall keep a document up to date]] The taxpayers who have to pay the bill must now be allowed to fall by the European Union to find a mechanism that they can no longer earn too much, can no longer retire too early, no longer receive so much pension. [[In the case of the BZÖ, as well as the members of the FPÖ.]] Therefore, Federal Chancellor, the outrage is so great. Should I quote Tumpel and Foglar – not Ewald Stadler? I'm just saying, The present proposal is ‘highly dissatisfying’. And on top of that: “If it is the goal of the European Union to push the wages, it is on the wood road,” Foglar said – not Ewald Stadler, but Foglar, your comrade, Mr Bundeskanzler. “The pact goes in the completely wrong direction. There must be in the spirit world of the Commissioner’ – meaning Olli Rehn – “something wrong” – quote Foglar, not Ewald Stadler, Mr Bundeskanzler. If you don't want to listen to me and the BZÖ, at least listen to your own comrades! That is why the people in Austria have more and more removed their noses from this Union and from your policies. Finally, the taxpayer always has to pay the bill, and you don't mind. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That is why you will have to speak and answer this afternoon at the debate on the urgent question, because what you have delivered today has been a dispensation of the FPÖ, but not an answer for the House!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e6400	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[10:23:59]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e6421	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[10:24:12]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e6673	In accordance with § 93 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure called for urgent consideration of the written question 8097/J tabled before the entry into the agenda of Members of Parliament, Bucher, colleagues and colleagues to the Federal Chancellor on the issue of “genuine payment for pleite states – from the Europhoria to the Eurosclerosis”. Under the Rules of Procedure, the urgent question will be discussed at 3 p.m. [[Abg. Strache: Mr. Federal Chancellor can prepare a little until 3 p.m.!]] [[10:24:45]] Requests for deadlines
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e6702	Before entering the agenda, I would like to inform Mr Magistrate. Stefan has requested that the Justice Committee report to Member Dr. Fichtenbauer, colleagues on a federal law amending the General Civil Code be limited to the 28th. ==References== Mr Herbert asked the Committee on Internal Affairs to report on the motion for a resolution 283/A(E) by Mr Vilimsky, colleagues with regard to the increase in staff levels at the Executive Committee, to a period of up to 28. ==References== Mr Ing. Hackl requested that the Consumer Protection Committee report on Amendment 232/A(E) by Mrs Ing. Courts and colleagues on labelling requirements for meat, milk products and eggs of animals fed with GMOs shall be limited to 28. ==References== Mrs Gartelgruber asked the Committee on Equal Opportunities to report on Amendment 1185/A(E) by Mrs Gartelgruber, colleague Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on the preparation of a study on the situation of Muslim women and girls in Austria, a period of up to 28 years. ==References== Mr Neubauer has requested that the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry report on Amendment No 1113/A(E) by Mr Neubauer, colleagues on the prohibition of neonicotionide-bitten-Mais seeds be limited to 28. ==References== Mr Mayerhofer requested that the Committee on Internal Affairs report on the request 693/A(E) by Mr Mayerhofer, colleagues, on better remuneration for executives in basic police training be limited to 28 years. ==References== Finally, Mr Herbert requested that the National Council decide to report to the Constitutional Committee on Amendment 1294/A by Mr Klubobmann Strache on a federal law allowing the XXIV. The legislative period of the National Council is terminated prematurely, a period of until 28. ==References== There is still a deadline request: Member of the Commission. Hackl has requested that the National Council decide to report to the Consumer Protection Committee on application 964/A(E) for clear labelling of food with genetically modified ingredients a period of up to 28. ==References== The proposed time-limits shall be put to the vote in the order just announced, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure after the end of the negotiations at this meeting. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e6776	It is proposed that the debate on points 1 to 4 and 12 and 13 of the agenda should be summarized. On the other hand, is there an objection? - That's not the case. Let's go into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e6797	A consensus was reached between the members of the presidential conference on the duration of the debates. Accordingly, a day block time of 8 ‘Vienna hours’ has been agreed, so that the following speaking times arise: SPÖ and ÖVP per 98 minutes, FPÖ 88 minutes, Green 77 minutes and BZÖ 74 minutes. For the duration of the TV broadcast by the ORF following the current hour until 13.00, the following statement was agreed for the joint debate on agenda items 1 to 4: first round with 8 minutes each, a member of the SPÖ government with 8 minutes, another round with 7 minutes each, a member of the government of the ÖVP with 8 minutes, the further speaking time per group 12 minutes. The President-in-Office shall, after consulting the clubmen and the clubmen before the end of each round, distribute the speaking time remaining for the last round at the same time to all five political groups. Any actual corrections will only be made after the television period. Furthermore, according to § 57 para. 7 to limit the honourable Member's speaking time to 10 minutes per debate without club membership. We shall now proceed to the vote on the speaking time just presented. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal to give a sign in this regard. – This is unanimously accepted. [[10:29:49]] 1. Point Report of the Committee on Research, Innovation and Technology on the Government Template (1008 e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law on Measures against Unsolicited Advertising Calls amending the Telecommunications Act 2003 (1031, e.g.) 2. Point Report of the Committee on Research, Innovation and Technology on the request 13/A of Deputies Dr Gabriela Moser, colleagues and colleagues concerning a Federal Law on Telecommunications (Telecommunications Act 2003 – TKG 2003, BGBl. I No. 70/2003, as last amended by Federal Act BGBl. I No. 133/2005), amended (1032, e.g.) 3rd. Point Report by the Committee on Research, Innovation and Technology on amendment 689/A(E) by Mr Mag. Rainer Widmann, colleagues on regular checks on compliance with the required limit values in mobile installations (1033, e.g.) 4. Point Report of the Consumer Protection Committee on the Government Template (1007, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the Consumer Protection Act (KSCHG) (Consumer Protection Act 2011 – KSCHÄG 2011) (1108 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e6885	We now come to points 1 to 4 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. We are going into the debate. First of all, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Deimek. 8 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e6916	Madam President. Ladies on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen here in the high house and at home on the televisions! The topic that we are dealing with today, the Cold Calling or – in German – the unwanted advertising calls, is a subject that affects many people relatively unpleasantly. I myself was informed at the beginning of March by a citizen from Linz who came across such a cold calling call. He told me that he had been called and asked him if he didn't want a win, because out of millions of participants of a game, he was the only one who won. He then asked for it. He was called by a Spanish Call Center from Mallorca. The client of this Spanish Call Center is the Linz company Munido Marketing under the owner and managing director Christine Herzog. The purpose of the whole was to give him the participation in lotteries he did not want to sell expensive money. If you look at the documents of the company Munido, which she applied for, that's pretty shameless. She says: “Do you dream of a carefree life? By security in old age?” – Yes, one would like to say, when old people who can no longer defend themselves are shut down. Or: “A good future for your children?” – Yes, when young people and apprentices who are not yet able to work are shut down and the last money is taken out of their pocket. One then asked Munido why she was doing this, and the answer was relatively unfrozen: It's allowed, it's not illegal, and that's why we do it. That is to say, it is permitted for citizens to withdraw the money from their pockets, to operate farmeries and simply to take them off. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: What?! Take it back!]] Money greed, earnings until the fall is announced in these companies, no matter who is affected by it, and be it the most socially ill-suited. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The Berlin Data Protection Officer rightly says: Cold Calling is organized crime. – These are the Al Capones, the mafia states against which we have to defend ourselves today. These people have the craft to lay. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Sometimes it is quite easy to make predictions in Austrian legislation. We had a ministerial draft on the Telecom Act, and it contained written consent for advertising calls and an automatic cancellation of this consent after three years. Unfortunately, the government proposal from the Council of Ministers did not contain it anymore. We will nevertheless agree because it contains at least a minimum protection. Indeed, the ban on the suppression of the telephone number display – that is, the callers have to declare themselves – and the penalty framework has been increased to € 58 000. That's little, but it's a first step anyway. It is not about the few – or say quietly to many – serious companies who call, but visit potential customers afterwards, explain everything to them and give them time. It's about a few black sheep that can't be disciplined, and they finally belong to the trick. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The second part we decide today in the House, which we will not agree with, is the Consumer Protection Amendment Act, because in this area the consumer is expecting real protection. He says: If I have been called inadmissibly, I would like it not to result in a contract. That is, the layman expects there to be no contract with Cold Calling – no contract with the up-to-date heat blanket, with the up-to-date newspaper, with the new telephone company and, of course, not with the new energy supplier. What's in the original text now? – That’s funny to quote: Contracts that are negotiated during an inadmissible – or earlier: illegal – call, are legal – not in lotteries and gambling, but in others. Please, what kind of law is that supposed to be? First the call is illegal, but afterwards a legal contract arises from it! I'll bring you a little story, too. In October 2009, Mr Jarolim sent a written request to the Minister for Consumer Protection and to the Minister for Justice, which they consider to be of the opinion. Federal Minister Hundstorfer said that the existing law is not a solution. Thousands of callers per month complain about this at VKI and the Chamber of Labour. He has even proposed a profit levy. Mrs Federal Minister for Justice! Listen carefully! Value added tax. They have replied that the applicable law provides sufficient protection. It was at a time when the Mafiosi were full of business, and the people were shocked that the beams were bending, and you said: Actually, you don't need any innovations. I can well ask myself what it looks like with the competence or with the protection of the citizens. In this situation you wanted or were not allowed to do anything, but at the same time the ÖVP shouted to the SPÖ: Hold the thief because the change to the Telekom Act has not yet been made. This is the method of the ÖVP and one must also point it out. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Let me give you another example, from Upper Austria: The clubman of the liberals in the Landtag, Steinkellner, suddenly could not reach his mother by phone. But he knew she had a phone. What happened? – Not the gambling company, but a telephone provider called. She said, of course, I got my phone at the post office, and didn't pay for the bill she got sometime, and the phone was shut down. Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! What would have happened if she had had an accident and could not have understood the salvation? What would have happened in the event of death? Do you want to sit down? – I can't imagine that! Quite honest: Unclean has also been judged. In fact, it is clear that benefits must be paid, of course, until retirement, which simply implies contract law. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like, however, to point out why we are doing this today in the light of the time that has come, and because we had a number of requests for deadlines. The delaying practice in the committees and the way in which the opposition applications are dealt with are unbearable. [[In the case of the FPÖ and the members of the BZÖ.]] We currently have more than a thousand opposition requests in the committees, no matter what party – a thousand ideas, a thousand proposals, a thousand requests. But at best they'll be postponed. Today and tomorrow, with these deadlines, we want to raise a little awareness that a thousand applications are not just paper, but that the ideas are and belong to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e6988	Mr Mag. Maier is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e7010	Maier, hello. [[The speaker makes his cell phone ring and pretends to be calling.]] What do you want? No, no, I don't want to sign a contract. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Madam President! Phone ban!]] By the South German Class Lottery? No, we don't. Where did you get my phone number? [[Abg. Grosz: This is like the Löwinger stage!]] I would draw your attention to the fact that this is an inadmissible phone call. Madam President. My dear Federal Ministers! That's how a Cold Call call might turn out. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Grosz: Are we at the Löwinger stage now?]] High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Thousands of people in Austria are being hit by a telephone terror, especially from the gambling/competition area and when winning promises. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: From now on, calling at the speaker's desk is allowed!]] We have the real problem here in Austria as a whole, but not only in Austria, but throughout Europe. According to a study by the German consumer centres, 66.7 percent of all complaints involved such offers from the gambling sector and from the gambling sector. In Austria, according to the study commissioned by the Ministry of Consumer Protection, the number was even higher. High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Values Advisors! With today's amendment of the Telecommunications Act and the Consumer Protection Act, we want to achieve several things. On the one hand, we want to ensure that young people, but also older people, do not receive calls with telephone number suppression, because here is one thing that happens: Get@item: intable Text You have a call with a phone number suppression, then you don't know who's at the other end. You don't know if it's an added value service or a public authority call. It is therefore also necessary to increase the penalties accordingly. This is basically what we want to achieve with the amendment to the Telecommunications Act. I agree with my previous speaker on a number of points, especially on the point that they are partly organised crime. I am glad that we have decided on a request by a majority in the Consumer Protection Committee. You, ladies and gentlemen of the BZÖ, still do not understand why you did not agree to this motion for a resolution – no – against international telephone fraud. [[Abg. Grosz: The dear God is on the phone!]] [[Call the BZÖ: A concerned citizen!]] Telephone fraud – and this results from the numbers from Germany and from other countries – is organized internationally via Call Center, the operators sit in other countries, and then there is a system of lawyers and collection offices that put people under pressure. [[Abg. Vock: This is still being promoted by the legislator!]] This problem cannot be solved in Austria. The problem can only be solved at European level. [[Abg. That means, never! That means we are moving the problem towards eternity!]] High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We have highlighted this in the Committee and have pointed out that, at European level, regulators, on the one hand, and law enforcement authorities on the other, need to be given more opportunities. According to a study conducted by the German consumer centres, two thirds of all criminal proceedings against international telephone fraud are currently required because the operators are hiding behind postal companies abroad and then hiding away. [[Abg. Vock: This is being promoted...!]] We therefore need European action. The Consumer Rights Directive is now being negotiated in Europe. In December last year, at the initiative of France, one was achieved that Cold Calling is being dealt with at European level in the context of the Consumer Rights Directive, in addition to the issues of the Internet issue. And if you look closely at the applications which have already been made in the European Parliament, then you will They note that in Europe, both a confirmation system and Cold Calling are being worked on in the Internet. High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! That is why we also voted in the Consumer Protection Committee. Regrettably, the opposition did not vote in favour. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You agree with everything! Stock data storage!]] We have clearly stated to everyone that if there are new problems, there should be a system at European level for the Ministry of Justice to submit a report on any changes. At present we have to wait for the European dimension and the European debate, but we can and must regulate an area: the field of competitions, lottery services and competition services. [[Abg. No, we don't have to! We don't have to wait!]] [[Abg. Singer: That's all right, and the other one can't?- Oh, my God!]] Why? [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Why did you agree to the storage of data?]] – Because precisely this area has been excluded at European level in the negotiations of the Consumer Rights Directive. [[Abg. May. Honey: And when does it come?]] High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! We will decide today that contracts that are concluded in connection with profit promises or promises, but also with lottery services, such as the Southern German class lottery, that all of this is void and that such contracts do not have any effect. [[Abg. May. Honey: What about the other shops?]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You agreed to the storage of data on stocks!]] High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! In recent times, we have also faced existence-threatening cost traps in telephone bills. I am grateful to Mrs. Federal Minister Doris Buressehr for the fact that another novel to the Telecommunications Act has now come under review to stop this horror. I would like to point out that this is a problem and also the responsibility of operators. The operators have made it easy for them to take away the risk of abuse on the customers. [[Abg. Vock: The government too!]] That is why I also welcome the initiative of the Vorarlberg Chamber of Labour, which has paid a fine against a network operator on grounds of substance and need. Hohes Haus, this is about phone bills over €15 000, €25 000, and I wonder where the operator's responsibility remains. [[Congratulations on Members of SPÖ and FPÖ.]] High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Therefore, the initiative of Federal Minister Doris Bures to take action against these costs is to be fully supported. In conclusion, I can inform you and the audience that the Consumer Information Association has put a new web page on the web, namely www.kostenfallen.at. You will find, ladies and gentlemen, information on how to deal with such horror accounts, but also with the Internet issue. Finally, I can invite you, the opposition parties, to follow our ideas and to agree with both novels, both the novelle on the Telecommunications Act and the novelle on the Consumer Protection Act.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e7313	Now comes Mrs Mag. Honey to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e7334	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Probably everyone of you has experienced it – we have all just experienced it together with Jacky Maier –: You will be called, and at the other end of the line will try to make a friendly voice clear to you why you are making the absolutely best business of your life right now, for example, when you switch to the phone provider. Ladies and gentlemen, probably none of you here in the hall will come up with such a machination, but, for example, with my 76-year-old neighbor, that looked quite different. After just such a phone call, she has received an invoice of €300 for the first time and then a pre-order for further monthly rates of €40. So without being aware of this, this 76-year-old lady on the phone concluded a contract that resulted in hearing invoices. It was quite difficult to get out of this contract. It certainly wasn't easy. Why wasn't it easy? – Because this old lady was shocked first when she saw this bill: 300 €, this is not a small thing for a pensioner. Then it was embarrassing for her. It was embarrassing for her to let herself be rolled. That means it took me a while again until she turned to me at all, and at that time it was almost too late for a resignation. And I have to say, if I speak of resignation: This lady didn't know at all that she had the opportunity to withdraw from this contract, because the waitress on the phone didn't tell her about it – quite finally. And what average citizen, which average citizen already knows in contract law that he/she knows about his right of withdrawal? – Hardly anyone. And that's a big problem. Ladies and gentlemen, what my neighbor has experienced, many people, especially many older people, are experiencing in our country: They are called, overflowed, and concluded contracts from which they are barely or no longer coming out. And I and we Greens say clearly and clearly: That's not all right, that's changed! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Until recently, the Federal Government shared this opinion with us Greens. The Government Programme in the Chapter on Justice should therefore read the following statement of intent: ‘Contracts concluded in the context of unsolicited advertising calls shall either be void or ineffective until written confirmation by the customer.’ What does that mean? – Such an unsolicited advertising call should not lead to a valid conclusion of the contract. - Okay, that's what was in the government program. But now we have the government template, the very concrete legislative proposal, and what do I have to say? – Nothing is with the nullity, nothing is with full protection from such contracts, nothing has happened with it. Only – and Jacky Maier already knew why he took the example of gambling – in connection with gambling and with lottery operators, one is protected from being overrun on the phone in the future. But in all other cases, in every other business – like what happened to my neighbor – you are still not protected. All these other people don't bring your bill. And because of this, what you're presenting here is simply not acceptable. Ladies and gentlemen, the gambling is certainly important. But the argument as you explain why that has not been extended, why the full futility does not come, that is really hairthrowing. First point: They say that besides gambling, there are almost no business areas in which this problem is also relevant. So I see this differently, and the VKI that you yourself quoted is different. In a study, in a previously conducted survey, it is clearly stated that there are massive problems in other areas as well: in the area of publishers who are trying to sell magazine subscriptions, in the area of the entire shipping trade and also in the area of telephone providers, as I have already described it to you. Mein Ladies and gentlemen, you are allowing this law to continue to overrun people, to be defeated by such unsolicited advertising calls and contracts resulting from them. And I'm wondering, What interest do you have? Is that what you're looking at? Who are particularly interested in you, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, here in the eye? – I’m sure that’s not the consumer’s. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Deimek: The ÖVP is hostageed by a few Chambers of Commerce!]] Second point: They say that there will be a regulation at European level anyway, and if we do something now, then we need to improve afterwards – so to speak: Shame about the work. – So really, I don’t think it’s any more funny! They refer to a Consumer Protection Directive, which we do not know at all today, what will stand very precisely in it. And you all know the decision-making processes at European level. We do not yet have a Consumer Protection Directive. Until it becomes effective at national level, however, it will last for at least one and a half years, if not two, three or more. And what's up to then? – Until then, they will be further cut off and these unsavory practices will continue to be practiced. And you're leaning back and saying, Well, let's wait a minute! - I'm wondering: What is the interest of consumer protection policy? I would also like to draw attention to another point, and that makes the proposal really embarrassing in itself. Such unsolicited advertising calls are not only highly insidious, but they are also forbidden. You are prohibited by law! And this must be broken on the tongue: A legally prohibited advertising call can also lead to a legal conclusion of the contract with your bill! Please, if that's not weird and absurd, then what? [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Deimek.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We Greens will make an amendment which will ensure that all contracts concluded as a result of unsolicited advertising calls will be a priori invalid. It should not be possible for such calls to lead to contracts. Ladies and gentlemen, it is certainly important for consumers to be protected in the field of gambling in the future, but there is absolutely nothing to be seen why all other companies should continue to be able to use this ugly tactic. That's not to be seen! Please do not wait for the EU, for the European level! Let's do what we can today! Please accept our amendment! Then, immediately, we would have a proper regulation and not as half a hearty thing as what you are presenting here.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e7411	Mrs Tamandel is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e7432	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! At the beginning, I would like to welcome a group of seniors who sit on the gallery and come from Voitsberg, from the constituency of my colleague Ridi Steibl, very warmly to the House. [[It was in favour of the ÖVP as well as of representatives of SPÖ and FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Oillinger: Explain to those why you!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I have listened very carefully to the statements made by my previous speakers and also to the calls made by Mr Grosz, for example. I believe that the government parties, especially Jacky Maier and I, have really given us very strong thoughts about how to put the car in the car, and we do so and we take it seriously. And I would point out that we represent any interests other than the interests of consumers in this area. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Honey: Oh, yeah?]] It is quite simply a fact that, on the one hand, we do not live on an island in Austria, where we say we can now make arrangements for unsolicited advertising calls made in Austria, but we are also obliged to prevent or restrict unsolicited advertising calls when it comes to foreign companies. [[Abg. May. Honey: You don't want to! You can do it!]] But what have we done and what do we do with this bill if we decide today? – First of all: In the future, it will be forbidden to suppress or distort a telephone number. And: It will be completely void in the future, or the contracts will not be concluded until these Cold Callings, in these unsolicited advertising calls, are lottery and winning companies. I think this is an essential area. Mrs. Schatz, if you say it's just that and the others, then I mean: To call 80 percent of all such Cold Callings and Telephone Killers as “the only one,” I don’t really think this is serious. [[Abg. Vock:... protect the rest!]] You know exactly when the presentation came from the Federal Minister for Justice, we have not yet known that the EU Consumer Rights Directive in the European Parliament is going to the finish line. [[Abg. May. Honey: Go, please!]] [[Abg. Dr. Strutz: That's an excuse!]] And if you say you don't know what's inside, I have to say, Then I wonder what your EU Members are doing in Brussels, who are sitting in these committees! [[Lively outraged calls at FPÖ, Greens and BZÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Strutz: cashier, cashier, cashier, cashier – ÖVP!]] Because I can assure you that we know exactly what will come, and we will wait for it. [[permanent lively calls]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]] – I don’t know, you can cry for so long...
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e7568	Ladies and gentlemen, I may ask you to return to your peace and quiet. If it doesn't get a little quieter, I'll interrupt the session. [[Abg. Oillinger: Yes, but then the speech must be acceptable!]] Please continue, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e7603	In today's regulation, we have provided for an improved possibility of withdrawal, and I believe that this is a good solution. Many companies that have already provided a service did not take account of it until much later and did not arrive much later because they put a charge for the first time. [[Abg. May. Treasure:... continue to lead to valid contracts!]] We have now regulated it in such a way that in the case of a service that has already been provided, but for which an invoice is set much later, the seven days of withdrawal continue to apply. For one thing you have to say – I mean, you always say which interests we represent and so on –: But we also want a powerful consumer! [[Abg. May. Honey: protect you...!]] [[Abg. Oils: That's a naughtiness!]] [[Abg. May. Honey: Tell that to your...!]] We do not want a consumer who is demised in principle if, perhaps by his own telephone company, he is asked whether he wants a different tariff. So these are contracts that the consumer himself wants, and I do not understand at all how you understand that we represent any other interests. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Deimek: It is about the contracts which no one wants and which nevertheless apply!]] We want the powerful consumer, and we want a system where there are extended withdrawal rights, and we also want to do so. And we also want to see what finally comes at European level for Cold Calling, so that we do not have to make a double regulation here. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Deimek: Until then, it will be disassembled! These are exactly the four branches in the WKO,...!]] I believe, in principle, that with today's solution, we are achieving improvements for consumers, and I also believe that with the solution that was originally in the government template, we would have created confusion within seven days to send a contract confirmation. As we can see, in reporting this Treaty confirmation is still taking place. The trader would then have argued that he would not have known exactly what was to be said in this confirmation of the contract. That's why the right solution is: 80 percent of cases are restricted, and with the ban on the suppressed or counterfeit telephone number, we have also achieved a lot. For example, I would like to say to Mr Deimek: The telephone switch-off would probably have been done anyway, even if the contract had subsequently proved to be void because of the telephone fraud... – Perhaps you will listen to me, Mr Deimek, then you can hear what I have to say about your example. This is precisely the problem that in the long discussion, we have come to limit this problem and to lay down the craftsmanship for these telephone carers, which have sometimes proved to be absurd. We certainly would not have solved the serious problem for consumers. Finally, I should like to thank the two ministers that we can now decide on this solution that we can provide a good regulation for consumers. However, I also thank the staff of Mr Konsumenschutzminister Hundstorfer for the long negotiations and for the good solution of this draft bill.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e7709	Next speaker: Mr Scheibner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e7730	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! It's interesting how long 8 minutes can take and what you can hear from the speaker's desk. Mrs Tamandel, you welcomed a group of seniors at the top of the gallery at the beginning of your speech. During your speech, this group of seniors has largely left the plenary room. [[Cheerfulness and applause with BZÖ, FPÖ and Greens.]] This should not be a coincidence, because if you still have another political group, in this case the Greens, measures and questions what the MEPs of this group are doing in this way in the European Parliament, and which comes from you and your group, then this is already to be commented upon. You have made a decision in the club today on various measures, but perhaps you should make a hearing with your MEPs, perhaps something else will come out, but do not measure the Members of the European Parliament of other political groups. [[Congratulations with BZÖ, FPÖ and greens.]] Mrs Tamandl, I also know why the seniors have left the plenary room and why seniors are now annoyed by the television screens about your speech, but I do not understand why the SPÖ agrees with this now, but there is something else in the government's programme that, although on the one hand, the telecommunications law invalidates such lottery business by telephone and that it is not allowed to suppress the telephone numbers – that is all good and nice, and that we are going to agree; yes, yes, I am already going to do so – that on the other hand, in the consumer protection law, you only fail to implement these very high goals, and especially those elderly people who are particularly affected by overruns on the phone, now need to be careful whether they will have to come a letterer to which you have to answer for seven days because you have to pay for otherwise. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Johann Maier]] [[President Neugebauer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Mrs Tamandel, Mr Maier, not only do we not understand this, but also the seniors do not understand that there is no clear statement here: Such transactions are invalid, void! We must protect consumers here! [[It was in favour of BZÖ as well as of representatives of FPÖ and Greens.]] But, ladies and gentlemen, this is not the only thing in the Telecommunication Act and the Consumer Protection Act, which we do not understand and what the seniors do not understand. Mr Maier, you know. In the last judicial committee – it is good that the Minister of Justice is also involved – we have also had such a problem with the collection of telephone data. What do we have, Mr Maier? As chairman of the Data Protection Council, you wrote a resolution yesterday, I believe – wonderfully, unanimously decided; we also support this – that this proposal, which we had in the Justice Committee a few days ago, is that all call data, every phone call from a mobile phone, should be collected six months... – This is an EU directive, okay, you can still discuss it. [[Abg. May. Johann Maier: Decided unanimously!]] [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Johann Maier: This one has the Karin Gastinger...! This has been a BZÖ initiative!]] Wait, Mr Maier, I know why you're nervous! It is not about the collection of call data, but about the question: What will be done with these call data? And then there was a decision in the committee, although the SPÖ Group opposed it, as we have seen, which was already noticeable physically. It has been criticized that there has been no review that the Data Protection Council has not been involved. On the other hand, this proposal has been voted unanimously, and yet it has been decided in the Committee on Justice by the votes of SPÖ and ÖVP, ladies and gentlemen. [[Pfui-Rufe at BZÖ.]] [[Abg. Great. Hypocrisy!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Step back, Mr Maier!]] This is incredible and incomprehensible: that on the one hand, one says in the Telecommunication Act: Yes, on judicial order these call data can be collected and evaluated too!, but then in the criminal procedure and in the security police law no longer is placed on the judicial order, but any authority in the future can request this call data. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Without judicial approval!]] This does not even have to be done in writing – we heard it in committee – but it is enough by telephone. An official calls the telecommunications company and says: Go, give me the phone number of Mr. X and Mrs. Y, because I'm interested in who made the phone calls and what was there! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Mostly of the members of the opposition!]] Ladies and gentlemen! That is incredible, that is the chief state par excellence – and you agree with it in committee! [[In the case of the BZÖ, as well as the members of the FPÖ.]] A few days later, Mr. Maier rightly says: That wasn't all right! [[Abg. Grosz:... GDR laws!]] – I support it Your concerns, really, I'm just wondering: Why do you decide in committee and then say: Until parliamentary treatment, we will change that!Unknown term type: "%s".? Now I'm talking about it here... – Yes, he went out, it's right, because he didn't even want to join this deal. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Grosz.]] The two club members had to be created to ensure that everything was made clear in this committee. Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, coalition loyalty is already in order, but what if we had all said together: We are advocating this matter and doing quite properly, as is usual in Parliament, another committee and trying to do something out of this matter!Unknown term type: "%s".? Why is that not possible? Does the EIA really have such a problem with parliamentarianism that you are even forced to object to an adjournment in the Committee? I cannot understand that, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, the Social Democracy has always said – and now I quote colleagues Cap: We shall be expressing ordinary parliamentaryism here during this legislative period. This is really a problem, but unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, it is not a coincidence, it is not unique. I have already mentioned it here – the Member of the FPÖ has already mentioned it – over 1,000 applications, closely printed, close to each other, on 100 paper pages. [[The speaker holds up a stack of documents]] These are proposals, in the majority of the opposition which slumbers in the committees that are postponed, so that they cannot be discussed here in plenary. Ladies and gentlemen, you should also consider this when it comes to taking the people's representation seriously. This is not a question of who is here for whom, it is a pseudo-, a placebo-discussion, but of how we, as MEPs, see our role as a legislator here, as a people's representative. And here we should be of the opinion, no matter who comes from a request, an initiative, one can agree to it or one can reject it, a proper treatment in a committee and then a debate and vote here in plenary, that is the minimum we as Members should ask for for ourselves. [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] Today we are dealing with consumer protection interests, and this proposal, which we will probably have to discuss next time, is really about the interests of the citizen, the interests of the citizen against the misuse of private data. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Maier von der SPÖ, we hope that in the vote you will not give in to the pressure of others and will pass this really impossible law here.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e7937	I now give the floor to Mrs Bures. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e7958	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President, before I express my opinion on the bill, you will allow me to take a brief look at the statements made by my predecessor. I share the opinion that we have to deal with the collection of all telephone connection and Internet connection data very critically, because it concerns fundamental rights issues and because it concerns the protection of privacy and because it is a value such as data protection that really needs to be raised. Mr Scheibner, I would just like to say one on your statement: When you were sitting in the Federal Government, with BZÖ Justice Minister Gastinger, this was decided, and we unfortunately have no legal remedy today to be able to take action against this directive. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: The implementation would not be the problem at all! They're outnumbering the implementation! That's what it's all about!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, today you decide to amend the Consumer Protection Act and the Telecommunications Act, and I am the infrastructure minister responsible for telecommunications. All in all, however, I am responsible for new technologies, especially modern communication technologies, which are very important to me, and I support the new information and communication technologies in the field of research and technology development with €100 million per year of funding. We are doing this in the Federal Government because these new technologies really open up great opportunities for people. They also facilitate people's lives in many areas. Technologies in terms of medical progress, technologies that are environmentally friendly, environmentally friendly technologies, we have great hopes, and in Austria we also have researchers who are recognized worldwide and have their noses in many areas. However, we also have technologies with which we are confronted every day, which are no longer to be thought away from our lives; mobile phone technology or Internet technology is also one of these. There is, as has been said, a lot of positive technological progress, but we must not shut our eyes to the fact that new technologies also often bring new problems. We must therefore ensure that there is protection for consumers and that this protection, this consumer protection, also keeps pace with the development of new technologies. Mr Maier referred to: This step-by-step attitude also means that if we see negative developments, we will react to them. That is why on Monday I sent a new innovation to the Telecommunications Act, which is intended to require network operators to inform mobile users about their running costs if they want to. You all, ladies and gentlemen, certainly also know many cases where people are confronted with adventurous cell phone bills, where people are surprised by high bills because they may have done inadvertent downloads. There was an example of a Tyrolean who was confronted with a mobile bill of € 25,000. It's not an individual case! We have 4 400 consumers each year at the radio and Deutsche Telekom regulators who contact them because of increased or non-comprehensible telephone and Internet accounts. Therefore, this is also a wish of the customers that they are warned if the mobile phone bill exceeds a certain amount. This can be done by texting, indicating that a certain amount of telephone costs has already been incurred, or also by means of a lock to put a bar in front of it. We will do that, and that will be the content of one of the novels that will follow. In my area of responsibility as Minister for Infrastructure, we have today created a solid framework in the Telecommunications Act, in this technology law, in order to be able to actually make improvements in the Consumer Protection Act for which the colleague Bandion-Ortner is responsible. First of all, in the Telecommunications Act, we are completely new to the prohibition of suppressing or distorting the telephone number of the caller and, at the same time, to introduce a sensitive fine, which is a fine up to €37 000. Secondly, we see that where we already have a criminal threat to illegal advertising calls, we are significantly increasing the penalties. We are now at a maximum penalty of €37 000, and we will increase it to €58 000 so that we can actually introduce a bar to the practice of these cones. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Telecommunications Act is the basis, the framework gives the Consumer Protection Act. I very much support the changes to the Consumer Protection Act because they really provide for more consumer rights, and this is also true in an area known as a persistent industry, namely in the field of competition and lottery business. I believe that this is good and that with this new law we really achieve a great advantage in the field of consumer protection. It is true that by this law we will not be able to prevent unsolicited calls, but what we can do is to deter, with legal regulations, with higher penalties, our major business makers in the future, which hopefully also works. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But, as has been said, we must continue to respond to technological developments in the field of consumer protection in the future, which are trying to adapt the laws to constantly changing sales strategies. Advertising is not basically something bad, it has been there since the Middle Ages, in the form of the market screamers, but it is about that we as legislator want to introduce unwanted wild growths a bar. I also believe that modern information and communication technologies give people new opportunities, but they must not lead to the restriction of rights or the enforcement of rights of consumers. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I think it's good if They are now adopting a more stringent law against telephone operators, as we are thus ensuring greater consumer protection in Austria. – Thank you very much for your approval.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e8019	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Strutz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e8040	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High Parliament! It is quite surprising that you, as Minister responsible for the Telecommunications Act, announce here, as you have just done, that you have already sent a revision of the law we are deciding on here a few days ago. What is wrong with waiting here, as the Scheibner has also said here, and also with drawing up the opinions of the Data Protection Council and then adopting a law that actually brings what you have actually announced in the Government Convention, namely a complete ban on criminal activities on the telephone? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mrs. Federal Minister Bures, you also did not really comment on the problem of ‘cold calling’. That is to say, it seems embarrassing to you that, with this novel, the SPÖ and ÖVP will now decide here in the House, you will actually legitimize what you actually wanted to eliminate, because, in reality, through these dirty formulations, the possibility of a pick-up over the phone is created. [[Call the SPÖ: "Smooth!"]] We are in fact facing a major challenge with this telecommunications law. As a representative of the legislation, we are required to keep pace with the technological developments, including the economic and criminal economic developments associated with them, and to propose the latter a bar. What do you mean by "Cold Calling"? – That means translated: cold call. You can say, cold puke. In English, however, an unwanted call is understood. That is, the expression is not limited to just those phone calls that eventually lead to a business conclusion and a contract in which one has financial disadvantages, but it is actually about – and consumers are annoyed about it! – for those calls, for the text you get unwanted. This is not only limited to telecommunications companies or to gambling, but we should also have dealt with the problems of the call centre in this law! I recall, for example, unwanted calls in the Vienna election campaign, Mr. Herz, Federal Managing Director of SPÖ! Do you know how the SPÖ worked there? She commissioned Callcenter – first of all with surveys to find out what the topics are. [[Call the SPÖ: Nonsense!]] And then suddenly the call comes: SPÖ Vienna, don't forget to go to election on Sunday and choose Mr. Häupl! Or, for example, the text of Mrs Marek, ÖVP Vienna, in which one called, did not forget the election of letters, and pointed out that one can still send the letter to the electoral authority – actually illegal. These are the so-called Cold Callings, the unwanted calls, but those, ladies and gentlemen, are really making this federal government a big bow! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] They have, in fact, deliberately chosen a gay formulation. Yes, the numbers can no longer be suppressed, but what does the consumer have, what does the pensioner have if, for example, suddenly the phone number 07536758 is displayed on the phone, he or she is involved in a conversation and then a contract is concluded? They are actually legitimizing this, and they lay the foundation for continuing these unfair transactions. If you'd seriously meant that You want to eliminate this abuse, then you would have written a general ban into this law. One thing you have to say: They actually shift the activity and debt to the consumer. It must now take action. It must look at the contracts that are sent to it, which includes the small print, and must be called upon to do so. They have also had a chance to take other issues into account in this innovation. I am not speaking now of the health-threatening mobile masts that are being set up throughout Austria. I am also referring to the rights of those people who are actually affected. The necessary requirements are not regulated in this Telecommunication Act. The following surprises me: The mayor of Spittal, SPÖ National Councillor Köfer, now stands in front of the judge with his entire municipal council. I think he is represented by Mr Jarolim. Both are not here now. Both of them did not speak in committee. Do you know what happened? As a result, the municipality and the mayor effectively prevented the establishment of a mobile mast in an area, so that the population would have been affected. – Rightly, as I believe, construction authority first instance, and the neighbouring people did not want mobile masts in this area because they were insecure with radiation pollution and similar. This has led to Mr Mayor and the entire municipal council now being accused of €840,000 of damages – because they have acted in the interests of the citizens! Ladies and gentlemen, that's not how it can be! I would have expected the persons concerned to represent this not only in Carinthia, but also that Mr. National Councilman and Mayor Köfer would have spoken to his party colleague that he would have been involved in the committee and that these maladministrations would be eliminated. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The SPÖ and the ÖVP have had a real opportunity to solve those problems which they have knownly recognized to solve those problems which they have also foreseen in the Government Convention, and to solve them effectively. It didn't happen! Mrs. Bures! We will vote in favour of the positive changes and hope that there will soon be a change in this law, that perhaps you will take these points into account at last.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e8120	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Gartlehner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e8142	Mr President. Estimated Federal Ministers on the Government Bank! First of all, I would like to mention that the complaints of the opposition groups, there is little effectiveness in consumer protection in implementation, are not applicable. These unsolicited calls and the fines of € 58 000, which are intended to do so, of course also apply to all the others, not only the companies or organised crime from the lottery sector. [[Abg. May. Honey: That means I can be punished for a call from which a contract arises? – That's still a lot...!]] – If you talk to our colleague Maier, he will explain this to you very precisely, very well and very precisely. [[Call to the FPÖ: It's going to be expensive!]] [[Counter-call of the Abg. Dr. Jarolim.]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is true that these measures in the TKG represent accompanying measures to the Consumer Protection Act, and I believe that this is also very useful and important. We know that illegal advertising calls are problematic. They represent a massive intrusion into personal privacy. The contact data are usually obtained through competitions and then resold. The practice shows that the methods of acquisition of our companies usually do not include prior contact, i.e. by “cold call”. The goal is always to start business or hide customer data and account numbers. Anonymous behavior is in itself a problematic aspect of telephone marketing, and therefore people can't... – Yes, that's prohibited in itself, even so far, but happens again and again in the past and is therefore to be brought to criminal charges. [[Abg. Oillinger: What does “problematic” mean? Prohibitions!]] We need to make it possible to realize this. [[Abg. Oils: Yes, this happens “always again ”! - Mostly!]] We also know that most of the infringement cases are not suspected that there are approximately 2 000 to 3 000 ads per year. The dark count is extremely high. It is clear that this is a great burden for many – also for colleagues who have already been affected. A survey carried out by the Social Ministry in March 2010 shows that the companies are usually very pleased with information about themselves in this telephone marketing. The address, headquarters of the company and a telephone number are almost never communicated to consumers. The price of the services offered is mentioned by only about two thirds of the companies, while only half of the persons called are covered by the duration of the contract. In particular, however, the telephone coolers have it on the data of the called ones. Almost half of the consumers were so to speak, the account data was extracted. That's really a huge quota. Nearly 50 percent of anonymous phone drivers have given their account data on the phone. A further 40 percent of the called consumers felt massively depressed or pressured by the callers. Nearly 90 percent of those concerned say they have not been informed about a right of withdrawal. It is therefore necessary for us to respond to this today, both in the Consumer Protection Act and in the Telecom Act, and to decide today, as I believe, to make a strong improvement at the legal level: Punishment in the case of telephone number suppression up to €37 000, in the case of illegal advertising calls, an increase of €37 000 to €58 000 so far, and this does not apply only to competitions. This innovation really creates an essential instrument. It is very important to be able to identify the callers by means of mandatory telephone number, because it is also possible to complain. In the case of calls from abroad or in the event of anonymity, there would be no prosecution; this would be very difficult. It is therefore really important that we change the TKG as a business base in order to be able to act more decisively in the Consumer Protection Act. Let me give you another hint on the topic of data storage! Mr Scheibner, I really appreciate you, but it's just been a few years since, and BZÖ Minister Karin Gastinger has signed contracts within the framework of a European Council of Ministers which require Austria to store data. - That's clear. [[Abg. Scheibner: It's not about this! It's about implementation! Your implementation is the problem!]] – I know, of course we'll talk about them. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Your bill is overwhelming! If you did what the Gastinger suggested, that wouldn't be a problem!]] I think you never thought of an implementation or you never forced such a one. [[Abg. Scheibner: The telecoms law is always okay, we agree! The criminal code is the problem!]] Today we are forced to implement a minimum standard, otherwise there will be sanctions on the part of the European Union in millions, and the cause is the government policy that was practised at the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e8307	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Steinhauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e8328	Ladies and gentlemen! We will still have enough opportunities to argue here about the data storage of stocks; that will also be necessary. Today, however, Cold Calling is on the program. When we talk about Cold Calling, it's almost beautiful when there's talk of phone shops here. It's actually about a bad phone chain. – This is the subject of today’s debate! Everything else is completely impoverished. Whether it's about winnings, vacuum cleaners, delicacy or cheap phone calls: No one has asked for this call! Whoever has once been attacked – you have to say that almost so clearly – who has once been attacked by such carers at home, knows how hard it will be to get rid of again. Someone recently called me who wanted to sell me Italian delicatessen. – Apart from the fact that this is quite a weakness from me: Without leaving grace and courtesy, it was not possible to stop this phone call. That's a real problem. Many then fall into these trained telephone coolers and complete their business. I have succeeded in ending the conversation, I have to say. Mr Maier ended the conversation much too quickly in his fingered call. They don't give up as fast as Jacky Maier's caught call. Ladies and gentlemen, the legislator has long appreciated: These transactions are prohibited. This is clearly regulated by the Telecommunications Act. Today, Mrs. Minister is also proud that we are increasing and extending the penalties. It is only strange that you forbid something on the one hand and on the other hand you don't think it consistently to the end. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Punishment is one thing, but also my previous speakers have already said quite clearly, the dark count is high. That is, only a small part of these telephonies will be displayed and punished. The larger part remains in the dark and becomes the problem only when the interested parties insist that they have completed a business and want to get out of this business. The penalties are also important, but the crucial question is: What's the consequence of the telephony? What's going on with the business? Is this business valid or not? – This is the crucial question the legislator has to answer. Our position is clear: If a business is created that is prohibited under the Telecommunications Act, which the legislator does not want, then the consequence must also be that this transaction does not come into effect effectively, except that there is later a written agreement that you want this business. But if there is no such confirmation, then this business should not be effective. The Federal Government is doing something different. It makes it relatively complicated. She says: When it comes to lottery games and competitions, the business should not be effective. But if this is the case with services and goods, then the business should be done, then you should only be able to withdraw. So let's hold on: Businesses are prohibited, but in the opinion of the Federal Government, they should be effective. This will only lead to a single consequence, namely that the business makers will continue because the only penalty that deters them is that the business they complete is not effective at the end. But this is not coming, so they will continue. They will pay the administrative penalties where there is an advertisement – and that will be very rare – and if we are wrong, they will even feed these administrative penalties into price formation in business, and at the end of the day consumers may also be able to pay the administrative penalties indirectly through the price formation of these traders. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Therefore, these transactions must be ineffective. All other regulations will not take effect. To withdraw, it is necessary to say relatively clearly: You need to know these rights first so that you can solve the business at all. The least are informed, especially in this situation. - That's the first problem. The second problem is: One must also be able to exercise these rights. It's not that easy. We in the National Council are relatively easy, but I know those affected who then contact me and say: What do you want me to do? How am I supposed to do it? Do I need a lawyer? – In principle, it is not my job as a member of the National Council to advise, but I do this and see what problems the people concerned are facing. They must not, above all, miss deadlines. This is the biggest problem because most come when the deadlines have long expired. I'm wondering, Who here will be the National Council, or should it be formulated more precisely, who will be protected by the Federal Government here? The business makers or the consumers? I'll tell you: They protect the businessmen. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We did not visit 80 Jus students here for too long ago and talked about Cold Calling. No one and no one of the 80 Jus students has understood the solution of the Federal Government. [[Call at the ÖVP: It was also students!]] Everyone has said that if you want to act effectively, these transactions must be ineffective. Ladies and gentlemen, what I have to admit – including Mr Tamandl – is that the Consumer Protection Committee has been seriously discussed. We have even postponed the decision-making once. I had the impression that in the Ministry of Justice one is aware of the problem, that SPÖ is aware of the problem and that one is also aware of the problem with the ÖVP. There are no consequences of this alone, and I wonder: What lobby has intervened in that only in a small sub-area, namely in the field of lottery and competitions, is one prohibiting and allowing these transactions to continue in the other areas? With so much insight into the committees, there must obviously be a strong lobby that has put pressure on them. It'll all stay with the old man. Businessmen will continue. It won't change much. Hopefully, the Federal Government will eventually show some insight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e8386	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Hakl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e8407	Mr President. Women Federal Ministers! High house! It is true that in the area of unsolicited advertising calls a completely incredible drop has taken place. However, there are also calls that do not take place unsolicitedly. I – it’s now, I think, 20 years ago – got a free subscription from the “press” at the university for three months, and when that was over, someone called me from the “press” and asked me if I would like to subscribe to the “press” in the future. – I did. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Deimek: There's a customer, that's not true!]] [[Abg. Oillinger: What do you want to tell us?]] I've had the subscription since then, and I'm very happy with it. [[Abg. Scheibner: That's something else...!]] If you go to a fair and go to a booth – let's say it's just a house builder fair, and you have to rebuild the bathroom – you have to give a business card to an entrepreneur who stands there, and this one calls you the week after that – even unsolicited – and you get into the business, then this is an example of a business that has also been completed on the phone without it being unsolicited. [[Abg. Vock: But giving the business card is...!]] [[Abg. Ollinger: This is absurd!]] At the same time, this is the reason why, from my point of view, a fundamental, automatic nullity of every business completed on the phone is not the best solution. [[Abg. Vock: Every business must... confirm! It's easy!]] It is true that a nullity was absolutely necessary for those off-zookers who worked in the gambling and lottery games area. – This has also been implemented. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] At the same time, we have changed the right of withdrawal in such a way that the consumer can finally defend himself. [[Abg. Scheibner: That's not true at all!]] Even if you didn't know by telephone and you didn't want to conclude a contract, you had a right of withdrawal from the phone for three months. That was pointless, because just the unsavory providers waited so long with an accounting process until these deadlines expired – a completely unsustainable state. Now, no matter when the bill is charged, after you get the invoice – you see the invoice, you don't want it at all – the possibility to withdraw, regardless of whether the invoice is made three months later, whether you can remember at all and the like more. This is a very massive improvement for consumers, who only make it possible for them to make use of their right of withdrawal. At the same time, I consider the automatic nullity of all contracts inappropriate. For example, if I had promised on the phone: Yes, please, send me the “Press”, I would like to subscribe to them!, and I would then have received them for a year, but after that I would have meant not to pay for it, then after the proposals of an automatic nullity this business would have been void from the beginning, and I would have consumed the paper for a year in all the peace of mind. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Deimek: Then you would have written a letter that you should have signed!]] It can't be that you want all this serious. That is why I firmly believe that we have a very good law for consumers that we have proposed to these absolutely impossible pick-ups, who have, above all, excluded older people, such as Christmas geese, an absolutely effective bar, that we should not go to the phone until someone who does not know. This too is a further protection. That we have increased the penalty to € 58 000, if it does, shows how serious it is for the government parties. I think it is in total a very balanced law, which punishes those who have made an unbearable deal, but also allows normal business life to continue in the future – where it is important and useful for consumers and businesses. It can't be that in today's time you have to move as a consumer for every business somewhere. For this very, very many people lack both the time and the pleasure. I therefore believe that this path is the right one. It also addressed the storage of data and the future implementation of this Directive from the opposition point of view and beyond the framework of the European Union. First of all, I would like to stress that, in my opinion, there will have to be improvements in this law with regard to the protection of fundamental rights. We will negotiate these over the next few weeks; we still have relatively much time until the plenary session. It was disappointing that both the FPÖ and the Greens already said in committee: No matter what changes are coming and whatever is being made, we do not agree anyway! [[Abg. May. Korun: We have never said anything like that before!]] Otherwise the committee would have been postponed. [[Abg. Scheibner: We wanted to negotiate!]] I have very regretd this, but it is relatively pointless to make appointments with you in such a clearly less constructive conversation when you know that a constructive contribution cannot be expected. [[Abg. Hear: Bravo!]] On the other hand, I recognise that we want to implement more than the directive provides. It provides that these stock records can be used exclusively for the purpose of combating terrorism and for very serious crimes. I believe that in the area of stalking – I happen to know two people who have been persecuted by stalkers – these people have become mentally at their borders and are broken – that even if such crimes are committed via telephone or the Internet, even if they are not as serious as terror, we must have a handling. The same applies to child pornography. In these areas, we will also use stock data. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e8584	Next speaker: Mr Dolinschek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e8606	Mr President. Ladies, ladies and gentlemen! Unsolicited advertising calls are not only a violation of the Telecommunications Act, but also a violation of privacy. Mrs Hakl, you meant that if the opposition had signaled that changes might be supported, and so on, then this matter would have been postponed in committee. . So I have a very different impression, because this Consumer Protection Act, which has been in the process of consulting in Parliament since December, was postponed already on 22 December. February. If your colleague Tamandl says that there are very big thoughts within the coalition – especially Mrs Tamandl and Mr Maier have been very concerned – I must say that this has probably been limited to the last few minutes in front of the committee. Before that, it seems that they didn't talk about it. I would remind you that the government programme reads as follows: ‘Contracts concluded in the context of unsolicited advertising calls shall either be void or ineffective until written confirmation by the customer.’ – This is not the case in the present form. Now to your example with the paper, Mrs. Hakl. I have often been called by a newspaper publisher and asked if I would like to receive a newspaper for 14 days, three weeks or a month. If I promise, she'll turn to me, I'll read this paper and then call and ask if I want to subscribe to this paper, if I'm interested in it. If I say no, because I'm not interested, because I've already subscribed to another newspaper, it's done. If I am interested, the publisher sends me a contract, I sign it, and then the contract is effective. – That’s what the opposition parties want! [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] That's what everyone wants, but that's not what you've written in your Consumer Protection Act. It's not in it, you couldn't agree on it – red and black. That's the problem. I agree with some progress, such as the ban on the suppression and falsification of telephone numbers, because the initiators of telephone marketing have so far not been able to find out. This is just as a step forward as a certain extension of the right of withdrawal. This is what the Federal Minister for Justice has proposed in the form. In turn, the Federal Minister for Consumer Protection has proposed something else, namely the nullity of contracts if they are not signed in writing. But there's no point in talking about that now. That's it. There are also certain things that bring an advantage. Jacky Maier has been very impressed that on the phone contracts that have to do with gambling, winning promises, lottery and so on can be declared void from home. – This is certainly an advantage, but also the only one. When entrepreneurs of telephone marketing send the contract data to the consumer in writing in one week – that can also be by e-mail – the consumer, after the right of withdrawal has now been extended, so to speak, by a week, as proposed by the Federal Minister of Justice, after receipt of this confirmation, has a right of withdrawal; as said, seven working days, Saturdays, Sundays and holidays are not included. But what if someone gets an understanding by e-mail and is prevented from opening it, reading it; he may be abroad, is sick or otherwise prevented from responding? – Then the right of withdrawal is there, and he has the contract! This is the problem. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That is why, I believe, what we have previously as a regulation is insufficient, ladies and gentlemen. An unwanted call, as I have already said, represents an inadmissible intervention in privacy. The consumer – and now I come back to you, Mrs Hakl – has a right of withdrawal, which we have now extended for seven days, and the sender no longer has the opportunity to wait until the right of withdrawal has expired, but, Mrs Hakl, listen once to: [[Abg. May. Hakl: If I get the bill...!]] Do you think that the many Austrians are so well aware of the right of withdrawal that they are so well aware of contract law? - I don't think so! I think that most people are overwhelmed, and that is the problem. [[Abg. May. Hakl: But if they get the bill, they startle!]] Yes, it is, Mrs Hakl, that is the problem! The fact is that due to what is now available to us – thanks to the SPÖ and thanks to the ÖVP – it does not automatically come to the nullity of contracts concluded. The government programme provided for something else. Thus, consumer protection is still not as far as we wanted it to be. It is already paradoxical when red and black decide that contracts are made on the basis of illegal telephone calls, because the Telecommunications Act is simply and simply clear: It's forbidden! That is why I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen, if You also believe that the Consumer Protection Act should be extended, you simply agree with this amendment! I think the Greens have made a similar request. The fact must be that consumers will in future be protected from annoying phone calls from call centres.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e8713	The amendment which has just been tabled is currently under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e8791	Mr Dolinschek, you have covered your speaking time by late submission of your request. There will be no objection if this time is deducted from Mr Rainer Widmann; he will have 7 minutes. The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Bandion-Ortner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e8815	Mr President. Dear Mrs Colleague! Ladies and gentlemen! You all know the situation: It sounds like the phone, a friendly female voice reports – usually a female voice – and says: Congratulations, you won! [[Abg. May. Honey: We already know that!]] You have won at least 100 € if you only participate in our great bets. – Dear ladies and gentlemen! Consumers have won today by this law! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[No rupture of Deputies Dipl.-Ing. Deimek and singer.]] More and more dubious companies raise services to consumers and then ask them to pay. The draft law now before us should now end these business practices. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Deimek.]] Zero tolerance, ladies and gentlemen, zero tolerance for these dubious betting and lottery providers, zero tolerance in winning promises and thus also more protection for our Austrian consumers! [[Abg. May. Honey: We know all that!]] In the future, contracts on competition and lottery services and contracts with profit promises will no longer be made in the context of an unauthorised advertising call. [[Abg. May. Honey: What about the others?]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Deimek: Why not?]] These contracts will be totally void, and the nullity is, if one wants, the maximum civil law penalty for these questionable companies. However, the right of withdrawal is also extended. In the future, a right of withdrawal should only begin to run if the service provider takes account of the service, because then the consumer realizes who it is to do with and what money is actually required for. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Deimek: But so many people don't get it! It's too late for normal people, but it's too late for those who don't know! That's not enough!]] It is important to me that consumers know who their contractor is and that they can then take legal action against the contracting partners. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Deimek: But the benefits have to be paid up until then!]] – Listen to me! What are those legal steps? – On the one hand, we have the right of withdrawal, we have the exercise of claims for damages against the entrepreneur, we have a challenge for the purpose of listing and error, and we also have the possibility of an administrative but also a criminal ad. Ladies and gentlemen! This law does not erode consumers, but protects them. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Deimek: Are you already lobbying? How much do you get in the month?]] We all know that these unfair business practices do not end at the state border. That is why we need a European solution, a harmonised solution, and this solution is currently at work, as you know, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Singer: But we still protect the Austrians first!]] ==References== There has been a general approach to this issue in January of this year. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Deimek: Who are you protecting? The electric companies, the telephone operators,...!]] - Listen to me! [[New call for tender of the Abg. Singer.]] There will already be a plenary session in the European Parliament in May. So it's doing something, and of course I'm going to follow it closely. We will probably have to orient after that; after that we will have to have to orient. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Mag. Steinhauser! We don't want all of us to have to change the law in a few months. That would be completely absurd! [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Deimek: It's gonna be much worse than you believe!]] That would be completely absurd. Therefore: Let us wait for this European development, which has really started now! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen: If cheaters drive their beings over the phone and over the Internet, it's not that bad, I think, if you can access connection data. But that's another story. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e9012	Next speaker: Mr Zanger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e9034	Mr President. Ladies Federal Minister! High house! Minister for Justice, you say: Let us wait for European development. I ask you: How long do we want to wait for European development? – So long until the last Austrian was pulled out of the bag? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This great European solution will last months, perhaps years, and in the meantime much can happen. We are invited to protect the Austrians and not to wait for EU requirements for something we could solve ourselves. “Criminal organized telephoning,” it was referred to today, charmingally described with Cold Calling – no question a topic that many have been concerned with and many consumers have already been confronted with. All the reports that have been published in the media, started by consumer protection organisations, speak of a “small novelle”, which brings a little improvement in consumer protection. Why “a little ”? – Because the nullity demanded by us opposition parties really only applies to all unwanted telephone contracts concluded when it comes to winnings, betting or lottery services. Contracts that are thus concluded should, however, be absolute and generally void. This should be valid for all. That would protect the citizen, protect the consumer. There would be zero tolerance, as you said, Mrs Bundesminister, to demand, there would be zero tolerance to implement. There should be no loopholes. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] 80 percent of the complaints made to the Chamber of Labour or to the consumer protection organisations concern these profit promises and competition and lottery services. What about the other 20 percent? 80 percent protect you now, 20 percent leave you open? What's going to happen? Let's assume that these bet service providers really say this business doesn't pay off. What will they do? – You will use this 20 percent loophole that you left out and sell other services. That's not a question at all. Once a Gauner, always a Gauner! It will then be books, collectors' items, thermal blankets or similar things that will be forced on the consumer. This right of withdrawal, which you have anchored, is really a farce. When you are in contact with the citizens – and these are often very easy knitted people –: Faith You really know that someone reads these contracts and then says: Now I'm writing a letter where I don't know, maybe there's an address line somewhere, and it's still sent off and released from liability? – No, these companies are annoying, they still send and nok. Ladies and gentlemen, finally it has been so that the ÖVP has once again clearly spoken some lobby and the SPÖ has made the climber here in order to pass through this 20 percent. [[Abg. Jakob Auer: After hello!]] Who it was can only be suspected: perhaps some Telekom operator, but perhaps also the “Kronen Zeitung”, so that it can sell its subscriptions better, or finally the SPÖ Wien. We from FPÖ don't play with this. And that is why we will only agree with that point in the law, which states that the Treaties are void, but not those where this half-solution is concerned.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e9101	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Steßl-Mühlbacher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e9123	Mr President. Dear women Federal ministers! (The speaker put a taferl with the title “SPÖ Parliamentary fraction GEGEN” – then a stretched-out mobile phone can be seen – on the speaker’s desk.) My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, who are following the debate via ORF! I refer to the novelle of the Telecommunications Act, with which the basis for the Consumer Protection Act was created, especially as regards the word “cold calling” – a complex matter that can be explained quite simply. I don't take an example from the gambling lottery or the like, but imagine everything starts with a phone call, a so-called Cold Call. On behalf of a survey institution, the caller/caller shall submit a survey on the "Satisfaction of citizens with fiscal policy". A few days later, the caller returns with reference to the previous conversation and informs: The result of the survey is that we all pay too much taxes, and therefore you have won a free consultation. To make the whole thing easier, the advisor will come home to you. It is also better to provide the documents, such as construction savings contracts, account extracts or wage and salary certificates. In this case, the company has a complete overview of the asset situation, and by making further contact you then come to a financial service company. – As far as this case-law is concerned. It's about you, too. It concerns anyone who telephones daily with the phone or with the phone. And it can't be that you're torpeded with countless calls, and even to the point that the phone number will be suppressed. In fact, it is necessary that anonymous numbers should no longer be removed. [[Intrusions of the Abg. May. Stadler in the direction of Abg. Heinzl.]] – But this problem does not seem to interest colleagues. – In addition, these companies will collect contact data, possibly resell them, and consumers will be misled. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Who made you this Taferl?]] The TKG has now established the ban on telephone number suppression and also forgery, and the threat of punishment has also been increased. I welcome this innovation and hope that this will lead to an improvement in the situation in general, but above all to a more effective protection of consumers. – Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e9163	Next speaker: Mr Oellinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e9185	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The only, really clean solution for what we have to negotiate here today, namely better consumer protection at Cold Calls, is if all contracts, which have been obtained through Cold Calling, are declared void. That's the only clean solution! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] You cannot explain to anyone, Mrs. Bandion-Ortner, that although Cold Calling is forbidden, when someone comes to it – and in fact all older people do so because the friendly people are – that is, when a contract is concluded that is not about gambling, but about a Telekom service, a new Telekom contract or a magazine contract, a subscription, and is not terminated in time, then this contract is valid at once, although prohibited. How do you explain that? And how can you imagine older people dealing with this? – These are usually friendly people who then, when they receive a call, also try to be kind to the caller or caller. These are trained people who, of course, know this very well and try to get older people into a conversation. That means – once again –: The only way to find a clean solution here – and please do not comfort us at the European level! – to find the nullity of all contracts concluded through Cold Calling, and that is why I propose the following amendment: [[Quoted print version removed]] This is the Green amendment. And I'm saying something about the debate now. Jacky Maier isn't in the hall right now, Jacky Maier, I think I'm a good consumer protector, but in my ranking of good consumer protection you, dear Jacky Maier, have lost five points today. Absolutely! With this windy explanation you really can't go on. It is clear to everyone in here – and each one of those concerned knows that too – how such Cold Calls come about, who calls who is affected. Of course, primarily people 70, 80, 90 years old. They're going to have to be big again. There's nothing else about it: the cheapest deal! And you don't prevent that. It is a shame to this Parliament that you do not continue here. That's really a shame! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The elderly are supposed to pay if they enter into such contracts. That's not fair! And there you don't need to make yourself and say: Yeah, if it's a gambling, then we're gonna ban it anyway, then it's useless anyway. – This is only a small part of the contracts that come about in this way. I can tell you about my mother. She shows me every time I come to her, not just what she's got on phone calls, she's afraid to stop going to the phone, she's waiting for the phone caller to turn on to hear who's calling. This is the reality in our country! You all know that, and yet you don't change it. There are dozens of letters – we haven't talked about them today, because today it's just about the Cold Calling – in which people are hit by competitions. Make Yes You finally something, wake up! Everyone tells you this from the elderly people, from your relatives certainly also that this is brutally thrown down. And then you come and say, Let us wait for the European Parliament. This will be a directive in the next few months. You know exactly how long it takes for a directive of the European Parliament to be implemented here in the House. That's two, three, four years. Do you really want to allow two, three, four years off, the cheapest pick-up at the expense of older people?- Oh, my God! – This does not belong, ladies and gentlemen, and you all know it! It's just the ÖVP that's holding some lobbyists, from which we have the snout up here, the bar! This should be said to you once, whether this is at European level or here in the House. Shame!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e9319	The amendment tabled is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e9404	Next speaker: Member of the Council of Ministers of the European Communities. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e9426	Mr President. Estimated ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! These Cold Calls are certainly a major problem, not for nothing is the handling of this problem in the government programme. And it is precisely with the Consumer Protection Act and the Telecommunications Act that that is the reason. However, we must maintain that 80 percent of these Cold Calls are in the gambling field, which is the entire field of betting and lottery. [[Abg. May. Honey: But that only refers to the different...!]] And there the future contracts are absolutely null and void. There is also a differentiation in business activity. But we should not evade down and here we should not install American consumer protection, where, as producers of products, we must first eliminate all the bad possibilities. I think we have a powerful citizen, a powerful consumer. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intervocations with FPÖ and greens.]] In addition to describing people at the other end of the phone with “friendly”, I would like to suggest that you mean a different attitude with “friendly”. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Deimek: Exactly: One alone steals, that's legal! I'd be ashamed! I'd be very ashamed!]] I think there should be legal certainty for all market participants, consumers and entrepreneurs. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] However, you should not pour the child out with the bath. We do not need to be ashamed, Mr President of the Liberals, even if you still ask for this. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Deimek: Yes! If ten steal, you say, it's illegal if one steals, you say it's legal!]] I do not want to quote the biography of one of your Members, in which another company – that is, a company that we are talking about, which we want to limit today – is inside that which he has run himself. – Just so much to shame and to be religious. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Deimek: We are talking about those who are acquitted today and are just as committed to it and who protect you!]] The service for consumers, business opportunities for businesses, clear rules and opportunities, the right of withdrawal up to seven days after receipt of the goods or service – in relation, we can guarantee that now in the novelle: up to seven days after receipt of the invoice. [[Abg. May. Honey: Who has what chance?]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Deimek: Can you explain to me how an eighty-year-old woman who doesn't even know... should resign?]] The change in the Telecommunications Act on suppression and falsification of telephone numbers is also an absolutely important step, but only a first step. Further laws must be followed, for data protection must not be perpetrator protection, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Deimek: Did Mr. Strasser negotiate the law? Look at this!]] I would ask you to consider this also for the next materials. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But we do not only have Austrian problems, ladies and gentlemen, when we repeatedly refer to the European legal system in the Consumer Law Directive, because it is an international business activity. We need a European solution, and it is on a good path, as Mrs Minister has said. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Deimek: And we are waiting for the Greeks to harmonise us down!]] What do you do if a call center from Bratislava, especially in Austria, bombards us? – That is where we need an overall solution, and it is good that we are anchored in a European association. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Singer: Let's perhaps do something ourselves!]] With this law the telephone shops were placed on stable legs. Clear rules and no narrow business to maintain the opportunities and opportunities for businesses and to protect consumers with the highest possible level of protection, that is our goal.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e9633	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Widmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e9654	Mr President. High house! It is strange to forbid something in a law – in the Telecommunication Act these so-called Cold Calls – and at the same time to exclude certain areas from it in another law. This really only creates this standstill government, because that is the opposite of legal certainty. [[Abg. Vock: “Legal security” is called that!]] So it's really cockbled what's happening here. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Deimek: That's what the tramsman was negotiating!]] They are only able to create effective ineffective laws, but nothing else! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] And stand out here to celebrate this Murks law, which really hits the bottom of the barrel. But in principle it is not only about the Telecommunications Act and the Consumer Protection Act, there are also two other applications that are of interest today. In general, it is about the situation of mobile masts, about broadband technology. And there are some things that need more than reform, and not just this little thing you've been trying to fix here, which you haven't succeeded. Just think of the cell phone masts! Again and again, and the only chance one has at present is at the municipal level the construction order. The construction regulations make the countries, but there is no way to deal with environmental or health aspects in the construction regulations. That's why the mayors are tied up there. There are few courageous mayors like those from Neuhofen on the Krems who do something. The “Kronen Zeitung” wrote yesterday “No trial for mobile mast rebels”. [[The speaker keeps a copy of the “Kronen Zeitung” up to date]] So once a mayor who trusts something, because there are a lot of vice versa who trust little. That of Kefermarkt, for example, speaks out: Well, the country doesn't give me any options, I can't regulate it in the construction order, so I don't do anything there either. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: You have no idea of the community work!]] These are things we still need to explain. But the mayor of Neuhofen was courageous. He stood in court, was threatened with imprisonment for up to five years, but did so and was ultimately acquitted by the Administrative Court. But what would be the solution? – The solution to the Telecommunications Act would have to be something that truly strengthens citizens' rights. In the process, in the evidence, one would also have to be able to deal with health, environmental aspects. The procedure really belongs to figures, data, facts, dealt with with with with with more materiality, because it only ultimately creates confidence among the citizens and the people outside. A procedure that finally gives the citizens party rights is important, because they have party rights everywhere, but they don't have them at cell phones – and that's not to be justified. We therefore in all cases need an extension of the so-called co-utilisation obligation – which is already in place – in the case of new mobile phone masts, that existing mobile masts must be used by other operators. Only then will there be debates in the technical field again and again, why this should not be done. You'd have to strengthen that. We need, in principle, stricter standards, stricter guidelines, how and where to build mobile masts. There are no legal requirements on this either. And we need – and that is what we have called for today in our request – strict controls of the limit values. In other words, the Telecommunication Authority would have to check at regular intervals all mobile networks accordingly and check that the limit values are met. And what we still need in Austria – and we have been discussing for a long time – is a limit value scheme that is legally anchored. In Austria we have the orientation to a so-called ÖNORM, which is not mandatory. That means we should also strengthen citizens' rights and border rights here. We should also introduce the so-called sum scheme. It makes little sense to have many cell phone masts side by side, when so far the limit values are exceeded. These are the things that experts also demand. And, unfortunately, I hear nothing from this government of God at all. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We also need new knowledge in the scientific field in order to secure it. Although the Scientific Advisory Council on Radio was set up at the Austrian Research Centers, which dealt with these issues, it has found that no risk to health is currently derived from the existing expertise. However, the criticism of doctors came in the mail, because, for example, young people or children are likely to be more exposed to mobile radios. And there are similar counter-studies that are highly official. The State of Styria, for example, commissioned a study on the C-Net, which has already been shut down. As a result, 1,200 people were examined, with the result that the cancer risk is extremely high within 200 metres of these plants. And this C network has been shut down, but was acquired by the T-Mobile in 2006. This means in clear text that T-Mobile will now use this network for wireless Internet connection or already. There are no studies in this respect. Or: You can read it in the "Presse" of 24. February: US researchers have found that mobile phone use stimulates brain activity. So I want to decide for myself when my brain is stimulated. I think my colleague, Mr Maier, is just the same when he stands in front of us. We don't want to depend on any phones where we don't even know how it all goes. The researchers also say: It would be wrong to say that we have enough information about the effects of mobile phones, about the long-term effects of so-called non-ionizing radiation, because they are not available. So the findings are not exhausted in Weitem. They will therefore have to commission further studies and stay here on the ball so that we can really use this technology for the economic location of Austria, but also to detect potential hazards. And that's not just the phone. This also concerns all other applications, such as Wireless Lan, all other radio connections or Internet connection, which have not yet been included in this debate. That means we want more rights for people. We want more transparency. We want more research, and we also want companies that use mobile phones to make a big, fat business with these technologies to return some of them to the citizens and find good, better locations in the search for a location. One more point – and in this respect I always have great concerns about this standstill government: If it could become a little dangerous, radiation, nuclear, then the citizen must not decide. However, this also applies in the event that something is expensive – we have discussed the euro rescue shield today – as the citizen must not decide. I really urge you now to make the telecommunications law as urgent as possible so that the citizen can finally talk about it. Finally, let the citizens be properly integrated, otherwise the citizen will exclude you from this government!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e9744	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Oh, no, no, - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e9766	Mr President. Estimated ministers on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! I think it is time for some statements made from the opposition to be brought back to the right light. Let me start with you, colleague Widmann. You said that what is decided today is the opposite of legal certainty. – I think this statement disqualifies itself. Mr Steinhauser asked a question with a clear answer in the room. He asked: Who will be protected, the waiters or the consumers? – With this question, the government work, which is really very good, is being brought into a light that it certainly did not deserve. Mr Steinhauser has also made a statement which has already been put into space several times today, namely in connection with the shops with lotteries, bets and so on, which account for more than 80 percent. He said that's just a small sub-area. I mean, it's important that the listeners here in the room and also at home know what is said by the opposition to the unjust. [[Abg. Singer: And listeners!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] Mr Dolinschek, however, praised us – I was very pleased. I did not understand Mr Strutz at all. He's still asking: What does a pensioner have of it when the phone number appears? . I think all parties believe that the prohibition of telephone number suppression in these cases is correct. That is why I cannot understand this statement. The need for action is right – something is also done. The number of infringements reported to the Telecommunications Authority has increased considerably in recent years by well over 100 percent. There is also a large number of dark ones. In this regard, we all agree, and therefore I am very glad that this drive of our business makers – and this is exactly what it is – is offered to stop. So far, the awareness of the population has not been addressed. It was mostly put into space as if the population in Austria were not at all able to protect themselves. That's not what I'm going to assume. Of course, the callers are very trained people, and you can go to the glue. It is important that we raise awareness of the population, especially young people. This is, I think, a major task for our schools and other training facilities. However, older people also belong to sensitized. In this context, I would also like to mention the work of the Pensionist Association of Austria very much – but this also makes other institutions. People are always being pointed out this danger, and this is precisely what it is all about. By the way – Mr. Schüssel is not here; he was also a defender of this turbocapitalism –: [[Abg. Listen: Joseph, you don't understand anything about that!]] If I look at today's advertising, I have to say it's also going in the direction of how these callers do it: For them there is no taboo at all, and they do not stop before the privacy. That's what we're against! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e9848	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Hackl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e9869	Mr President. Women Ministers! The great throw is certainly not today's novice! [[Complaints with FPÖ and BZÖ.]] This issue also takes an important place in the Government Convention, under point B.9. – I quote that again, although it has already been mentioned today –: ‘Contracts concluded in the context of unsolicited advertising calls shall either be void or ineffective until written confirmation by the customer.’ [[Congratulation of the Abg. Vock.]] [[Abg. Riedler: Behavioural applause!]] There are also statements by the Minister of Consumer Protection, Hundstorfer, who represents the nullity in concrete terms. But what's even more important: There is an opinion from the Ministry of Consumer Protection, and I would like to quote it: "The proposed withdrawal solution continues to impose on consumers the burden of resolving themselves from a surprising and unwanted conclusion of the contract. Older consumers keep telling us that only the concept of a letter of withdrawal and the way to post already presents them with insurmountable problems, so that financial disadvantages are taken away by force.” [[Abg. May. Stadler: Just don't fall asleep! Keep talking! Keep talking!]] [[Call: Stop]] Mr. Stadler, I'll keep talking when I'm ready! Contracts concluded during a contract in accordance with § 107 para. 1 Telecommunication Act 2003 and then legalised by the Consumer Protection Act are not worthy of the rule of law of Austria. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Do not interrupt! That was annoying applause!]] If you look at the actions and the arguments, the commitment from the SPÖ in advance, you have to say that there were good approaches. But the whole thing was then made by some other powers – say: some lobby – to what it is now: a half-hearted solution. [[Abg. Scheibner: But of whom is that?]] I look into the ranks of the ÖVP!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e9974	Next speaker: Mr Rädler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e10024	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mrs. Federal Minister! - For the women's quota. – I think our vice chancellor Dipl.-Ing. This debate is going to be followed by the provoking of television television. That is why I wish him in this way good recovery on behalf of all of us. [[As a result, the Commission has not yet received any comments from the interested parties.]] On today's legislative decision, consumer protection in connection with Cold Calling, and on the Green and BZÖ applications: I don't think we should and can put everything in a pot. If 80 percent of these telephone exploits are banned – be it winning or lottery games – then you also have to bear in mind that there are still powerful citizens in this country – Mr Dolinschek is already looking at his documents anyway. To the powerful citizens: If you put your car in a workshop today – and this probably has happened to everyone – and then someone from this workshop calls and says: At the service we have noticed that this spare part is to be renewed!, then you will say yes to it. [[Abg. Vock: This is not a Cold Calling!]] - No, it is. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] And then we're supposed to ban everything that's on the phone? – 80 percent are forbidden! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] 80 percent are banned, and the rest will be left to free and powerful citizens. [[Subsequent calls to the FPÖ.]] A word on legal certainty: There is clear progress in this area, as Mr Hakl has said. If I have had three months to leave, I now have time until the first service and even when the bill is floating in the house. That's what I can think about: What did I order now? What happened? and can still intervene. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Deimek: Start reading at the front! Are you dealing with the regulations in the local authorities as well?]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] It is far more important that we take action against the international network operating here under this European directive – and this is what the Minister of Justice is tasked with. That's all coming from abroad, and that's what we've got to deal with. We must draw the attention of the European Union to the fact that there must be no tolerance that there must be high penalties. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Deimek.]] I'll tell you: The biggest measure to be taken is the one against the Ping calls, in which a computer simply chooses random numbers in Europe. After two sluts it is out, then one calls back and the tariff begins to run and then the conclusion of the contract is started. That's forbidden! To the citizens, one word: Whoever saw yesterday’s “Report” and Sunday’s “In the Center” needs to know slowly – and there is the demand of the FPK – that journalists actually make a hate on people – so I see it – and totally forget what is going to happen on the other side. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Deimek.]] That's news reporting. This happened on Sunday and it happened yesterday in the “Report”. Where are those government councils where public funds are used to satisfy certain newspapers? Where are the 36 million of the ÖBB that are issued annually for ads? – I have to say that to our colleagues in the government. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Deimek.]] And the next thing that happens with broadcasting charges – the mayor of Lanzenkirchen sits up there –: A cross head has been shown for 30 years – for 30 years! – attempts to run against the public, negates all judgments. That's in my neighboring community, so I can testify. This man says: I can't operate my power plant because I'm so poor! – The man is rich, has huge possessions in Canada. And this is how it is presented by the “report ”? The man kept the public a fool for 30 years! He has laid down water law so that the land of Lower Austria repairs its weir. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Binder-Maier.]] That's not how it can be in that state! And therefore, consumer protection sometimes means using remote control in connection with the ORF.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e10129	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Brunner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e10150	Mr President. Dear ministers! Ladies and gentlemen. Dear Seers! I would also like to talk about the telecommunications law and the effects of mobile communications on people and the environment, which unfortunately are ignored by the law. It's about radiation pollution. Unfortunately, radiation pollution is also being discussed in a very different context, because of the nuclear disaster in Japan. And I would also like to appeal once again to everyone to work at all levels for the nuclear exodus and also to support the petition of GLOBAL 2000 “turn off now”. I also warmly welcome the students from Austria, Germany and France to us in the house, who have just demonstrated very impressively how necessary this exit is. Welcome! [[It was in favour of Greens, FPÖ and BZÖ as well as SPÖ Members.]] The mobile phone is also concerned with radiation pollution. Of course, you can't compare that at all, that's a very different range, a very different kind of radiation. This is about electromagnetic radiation, but a tenth of the population is electrosensitive. That is, these persons suffer from electromagnetic radiation an impairment of their health and well-being. There are now enough indications that show an increase in the number of cancers due to electromagnetic radiation – this has also been impossible for the Scientific Advisory Council on Radio – and there are enough international studies that point in this direction. Even if the evidence is not scientifically secure, the rejection of our requests by the government parties and also the FPÖ is completely incomprehensible to me, because I think once we have the evidence that there is a connection, it is too late. The indices are alarming enough and the indices are sufficient to act now. It's always like this: It means: Well, you can't prove anything, and that's why we don't have to do anything here. But if you can prove a burden, a health risk, an environmental damage, it is too late! We finally need to reverse the burden of proof. Whether it's plastic, nuclear or mobile, operators must prove that their product has no negative impact on our health and the environment. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I think that is also our responsibility here in this House. The legislator, politics has pressure of action. Already from 1999/2000 there is a resolution of all five parties, there are petitions here in this House calling for action to be taken at last. It has not yet been implemented, and I think that is grossly negligent. In my opinion, it is also a rather wrong game if individual Members are involved regionally, for a concrete mobile tower, there on the side of the arrainers, but then if we have the opportunity to shape the conditions here in the house in such a way that one can reduce health damage, environmental damage, again nothing. This is a wrong game, not a way of dealing with the concerns of the population. We have the obligation to act there. But what happens here today is nothing but a kneefall in front of the mobile lobby – the next lobby before which a kneefall is made here. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Unfortunately, there are no exposure directives to date that should minimise the impact, such as the cancer risk, although the Supreme Council has already called for it in a resolution of 2000. The Greens' request provides that at last health, environmental and also human rights aspects must be enshrined in the Telecommunications Act. This is what we have requested today. It also needs neutral information. It can't be that studies are always financed by a lobby. This requires neutral, independent information and studies and a minimization of the load by electromagnetic fields. Other states show this. Italy, Liechtenstein, Israel show that minimized radiation exposure is possible – and telephone calls. It's not like you're going to be can no longer call, but the radiation exposure must be controlled. I do not understand at all why this should not be possible in Austria. We here in the house have the locals to represent, we have the protection of the environment to represent, and not any interests of lobbyists. That is why I do not understand your rejection. We Greens will continue to work for the protection of the locals, for their rights and above all for the environment. By the way, I believe that Austria needs an independent, strong and committed Ministry of the Environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e10238	Next speaker: Mr Hell. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e10259	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Federal Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! My speech is in line with Mr Brunner's statement. Two changes have also been made to the Telecommunications Act today, concerning health protection, the safeguarding of controls and compliance with limit values. Ladies and gentlemen! Despite the undisputed positive aspects of the mobile phone in daily life, there are in the population, we simply have to acknowledge that, in part, there is great concern about the health impact of this technology. The question of whether the electromagnetic fields of mobile devices are harmful to health or not is very controversial. This is probably due both to this complex matter and to the variety of different studies. But what is simply not to be explained usually means discomfort and rejection also in the population. Ladies and gentlemen! Radio surveillance ensures safety. They review the operation of relevant telecommunications facilities and are also a guarantee that the legal provisions that exist are respected. In § 73, the Telecommunications Act already regulates that the protection of people's lives and health must be ensured in the event of the establishment and operation of radio equipment. It is also necessary to take into account the environmental requirements of the authorisation authority in the planning of technical parameters for radio equipment. – That is, we already have a legal regime. The limit values applied in Austria are internationally recognised values, also defined by the World Health Organization and recorded in the Telecommunication Act with us in Austrian law. [[Abg. May. Brunner: There is no one at all! That's not true!]] Regular checks are important which actually show these values. Ladies and gentlemen, in Austria, the authorities, institutions and organizations dealing with mobile communications and health are very responsible for this issue, as I believe, and give it particular attention in many areas. The measures include regular analyses, evaluations of current scientific studies, recommendations for a responsible approach, monitoring compliance with limit values, as well as control of what it looks like with the transmission masts, which is very transparent in the transmitter, which is also accessible via the Internet. As I said, regular controls are important. Worldwide, 74 persons currently work in the telecommunications authorities in the course of inspections. In the last committee, the Federal Minister has already suggested: There are now also 10 people. In 2010 the Authority carried out 2 262 reviews. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The Austrian population has a right to be informed about mobile communications or the actual electromagnetic disturbances. I believe that the legal framework for this is already in place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e10296	Next speaker: Mr Markowitz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e10317	Mr President. Dear Federal Government! High house! We heard a lot about Cold Calling today, but I have to say, colleague Rädler, I was very surprised when you first talked about Cold Calling and then at once about the car workshop. At Cold Calling – you understand! – it’s about phone calls and phone calls. And then you said that 80 percent of the population would cover this law, the remaining 20 percent would not. There's one thing that's clear: The government red-black is the minority, as always, no matter what. Not us! We will work to ensure that the legal regulation takes place in such a way that not always the older people and the young people, but also – you should be very interested! – the entrepreneurs are disadvantaged. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We have looked at the subject very carefully: Advertisers are offered, free phone providers, telephone providers via CDs, where you can put things in as entrepreneurs, and then you get a call at once with the question: Do you want to be there any longer? You will have to pay 1 000 € for that in the year! It's not about the citizens where they say: A young person doesn't know what he wants! or older people who are overwhelmed, no, it's about entrepreneurs. And the entrepreneur then says: No, I don't want to be there! What can I do? To this end, the provider answers: You get a paper, it says quite clearly: I don't want to be a member anymore, I don't want to pay 1 000 € for it! But in the small print down there is: The contract is extended by one year. That is why we have tabled an amendment. We want a clear regulation: If you conclude a contract, then from A to Z you have to stand very clearly within what business connections you enter into with it. I do not understand at all that, in this debate on Cold Calling, we are dealing with the whole thing so lapidar when it is really about the Austrians' pure cut-off. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mrs. Justice Minister, do you really want us to adopt a law here in the House today, which is no longer valid in two weeks, because it is revised by the EU in Brussels? It's our job to pass laws. I have no problem making a change of law immediately if it helps the Austrian population until then and finally the withdrawal ends. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We have certainly thought of something in our amendment, and we would like to have dealt with it as follows: If an offer comes, the contract will be sent in writing, and in this contract it must be clear within stand by what is going on and that you can cancel this contract in writing again. It can't be that, according to a 2003 change of law, Cold Calling is not the right thing, but later here in the House, we decide a law, after which something, which it may not actually be, can be terminated by the citizen, and we justify that by that he is indeed advocacy! For us, the question is as follows: What are you doing? We have been discussing this for many years in the House of Lords, and it is really high time that the opposition also said something about it that it can say that we decide something together. It should not be the case that red and black are permanently passing over the opposition politicians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e10399	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Aubauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e10421	Mr President. Estimated Federal Ministers! High house! Dear listeners and spectators on the gallery and in front of the TV screens! This debate clearly shows: It's all about us! Each of us has already been harassed in one form or another by advertising calls. The victims of unscrupulous telephone drivers are, as we know, to be found in all age groups. But caught cold on the phone – and that's Cold Calling! – it has mainly pensioners. According to a survey carried out by the Consumer Information Association, one third of the pensioners called for are pensioners. They need more protection – but not only these, all consumers need more protection, and that is why we want to decide on these improvements here today! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It's been talking about many variants in the last few hours. Also a bit confusing, as I mean, was there. Therefore, briefly and clearly: What are the new improvements? – If a call comes and you don't know which phone number it is, you don't know the caller, then you should put on the listener or best not to pick it up. It is forbidden to suppress the telephone number. Great advantage! It has been shown to be two thirds of the calls – and this is the biggest chunks; this to the critics! – concerns gambling and winning promises. 100 percent of this fraud is abandoned by this law. Stop it! These scams are the craftsmanship. This is a big step towards greater consumer protection. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] How does that look in practice? – You don't have to complain anymore. Many victims are ashamed that they have come across such frauds, and pay more in silence than complain. That is no longer necessary. This fraud's stopped! Next point: What happens when it comes to unsolicited advertising calls that do not have to do with winnings? That's exactly what you criticized! – There are new withdrawal periods, and this is a great improvement, which is more protection for consumers. That means: If you get a goods or if you get an invoice, you have seven days to withdraw from this contract. Why do we want that? Why do we want such contracts not automatically invalid? – Because there are very, very many serious entrepreneurs in Austria! [[Abg. Doppler: Oh, that's it! And we have to protect them!]] We do not want to harm these serious entrepreneurs. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Doppler.]] We want to meet the brutal, unscrupulous telephones – but not the serious entrepreneurs! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] All in all, a number of improvements. But – and I am quite right with you – it also needs European solutions, because the fraudsters do not stop at our borders. European solutions: yes! The EU can show that it is working for people that it is acting for consumers. That is what we want, and that is what we are calling for today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e10490	Next speaker: Mr Doppler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e10512	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Minister! Undesirable advertising calls, phone fraud, Cold Calling are prohibited! Consumers are protected and nothing else, ladies and gentlemen. I think that's important. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We liberals cannot understand why this form of business is not prohibited, which would be in the interests of citizens. In the Consumer Protection Committee, we were told again and again – especially by Mrs Tamandl – that everyone can withdraw from such dubious telephone business. That's right, but the injured person has to act on his own, otherwise this phone business is valid. It is true that the Government's bill on consumer protection states that wager and lottery services are annulled. Only: In the interests of consumers, in the interests of many older people who are suffering from such dubious transactions – often the providers sit abroad – the telephone fraud is prohibited to protect the population. Therefore, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to take a very brief look at the resolution tabled by ÖVP and SPÖ, according to which the Minister responsible at EU level should work to ensure that this telephone fraud is combated. That's all right! However, it is also within it that it should also work at national level to combat this fraud. I ask you, ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and SPÖ: Why Make Don't you?
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e10578	Mr President, I should like to thank They merely referred to the reasons for the amendment. You must read the entire application text.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e10593	Mr President, I am in favour of this.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e10612	Please read: ‘The National Council wishes to decide at second reading:’ And then please continue there!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e10627	'The Council of Nations wishes to decide at second reading: The application for a law referred to at the outset is amended as follows: In paragraph 1, paragraph 5 is replaced by the following: ‘(5) Also all other contracts, which during one according to § 107 para. 1 TKG 2003 inadmissible calls are void. The indifference of the contract can only be relied on by the consumer. In the case of benefits which the trader has provided despite the nullity of such contracts, he cannot claim a remuneration or a reduction in value. The consumer may request back all payments and benefits accepted by the company contrary to this provision.’ Is that enough, Mr President?
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e10660	Of course!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e10676	Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e10703	The application has now been properly submitted and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e10757	Next speaker: Mr Mayer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e10779	Mr President. Estimated ministers! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I think Mrs Aubauer has once again raised the issue of what is being done today. Most of us will be glad that we finally take these steps today and also decide. Not only those affected personally, but also other people are happy about it. More and more people come to us in the speaking hours exactly with these concerns. [[Abg. Oillingers: They will also come in the future!]] This is not only about the big frauds, which are now also going through the media, but also about the many small ones, where “only” – under quotation marks – is about a few hundred euros. These are exactly the things that can now be stopped. [[Abg. No, unfortunately not!]] I think that's important. I know that many of those who are concerned are watching and waiting for these things to be stopped, because they are angry and have great hope that such a thing is no longer possible. An important step is now being taken. Not everything is completely cleared out, but an important step is, as I said, taken. You know that very well, but you can't admit everything as an opposition, I can see that. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the Greens.]] [[Abg. Oils: You have to run red now!]] If you still cannot believe this, I recommend to him a literature that you can also use well in teaching, namely the representation of what Günter Wallraff did in an undercover research for “The time” has come out and where it has explained exactly how this is done in Call Center. I have to say that's indescribable! I do not want to protect the callers, but if you know how to put pressure on them, so that they can actually implement the instructions on how they can put people in place, and what they need to sign, then you better understand. I advise you to read this, because I don't have the time to describe it here. Just so much: The callers must explain how they informed the people, and then sign that. I'm just quoting what these call centres are demanding. For example, in order to secure itself against customer complaints, CallOn has its own employees sign the following: “I hereby declare that all advertised customers have been sufficiently informed by me about the modalities and I have only passed on the true figures, data and facts. I have been sufficiently informed about my obligation to provide the information to the customer in a truthful manner.” That is to say, the complaints we are rightly seeking, as the call centre is getting rid of the employees, also concern the staff who often come under very questionable circumstances to make such statements. I therefore believe it is very important that these decisive steps be taken here today. I would therefore also like to invite the opposition to take this generous step here and to go along with it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] A word about the Ping calls. I am convinced that almost all of you have already received such calls, where only very briefly are ringed and then turned off. There thousands of people are called at the same time via computer-controlled telephone systems, and then the call is stopped. Hardly any contact is made, the lock takes place: I'll call you back! And then you are included in an added value number and you pay horning amounts. We want these things and we can do them with the planned measures. I think these are important further steps. One last thing – Mr Oellinger has described it very impressively, as it concerns the older generation, but above all it concerns the disciples –: I mean, you shouldn't put everything down to school, but there are very good examples of how to raise awareness of young people in dealing with consumer protection. It would be important to also put such teaching units in schools so that our youth grows into critical, self-confident citizens in order to prevent them from calling for new laws because of any abuse that may occur in new technologies. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e10854	Next speaker: Mr. Singer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e10875	Mr President. Dear ministers! Dear ladies and gentlemen here in the hall and in front of the TV screens! I am very, very pleased that we are adopting measures with these amendments that successfully combat and stop the methods of "cold calling". Today's debate has brought many examples of how important it is to make legal changes here. It is absolutely necessary – and I emphasize that! – to protect our citizens from criminal activities. It has already been mentioned all the points which are in place today, and I would like to address only some of them in particular. On the one hand, I think it is very, very important that a ban on telephone number suppression comes so that you can track where the calls came from. 80 percent of the cases raised today – the talk is about lottery and gambling – are null and void, the calls and the business that arise from them. I emphasize this because it was often argued here that it is only a small part that is declared annulled. There are appropriate criminal provisions, and I assume that these penalties and the level of possible penalties will also be applied accordingly. Ladies and gentlemen, we need a European solution; I agree with the argument of our Minister for Justice. It is not about maintaining and implementing an EU directive, but about reaching everyone, including those who call from abroad, because we need comprehensive protection. For me, however, it is important that we take advantage of all the opportunities that our state has so that we can come to a European solution to this matter as quickly as possible. Dear Ladies and gentlemen, I do not want us to demise consumers, but I want us to protect them. In this context, because many times in this discussion the impression that many companies are acting unscrupulously has been raised, I say quite clearly: The vast majority of our companies in Austria act in a serious and legal manner. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Deimek: But the black sheep...!]] I am very glad that we are today bringing these legislative amendments to the decision-making process, which is why we are creating an important protection for our consumers. It has already been said several times today that consumer protection is too little widespread that people are not informed accordingly. That's why I'm saying: We need to raise awareness of people, and we need to use every opportunity to transport this information to citizens. That is why I am very happy about the media coverage, which has criticised and made public the usual practice of ‘cold calling’ in various broadcasts. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e10915	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Lohfeyer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e10936	Mr President. Dear ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, calls for advertising purposes without prior consent of the participant in Austria are already prohibited under § 107 Telecommunications Act. But they are in practice going ahead and giving to advertise new customers. For example, contact data are collected via competitions, which are often sold as well. [[President Dr. Graf takes over the chairmanship.]] These advertising calls are used by our major companies to hide customer data or for the acquisition of contracts. Businesses are started or customer data fail. The present Telecommunication Act-Novelle contains important steps against oppression and forgery of telephone numbers and significantly higher criminal threats. It has already been mentioned that the figures for the telecommunications authorities and the above-mentioned infringements have increased by more than 100 percent over the past three years. In addition, one can assume a considerable number of dark ones, precisely because of the anonymity of the callers, which does not therefore lead to a formal ad, and also because most calls are made from abroad. The telecommunications part of the novelle serves as a accompanying measure to solve this problem and supports the necessary implementations in the Consumer Protection Act, just the second part of this novel. It provides for an intensification of consumer protection against unsolicited calls and refers primarily to contracts relating to profit promises, to betting and lottery services. It will make it possible for individuals concerned to leave contracts or not to enter into contracts which are unsolicited as the result of telephonic persuasion skills of telephone operators. Of course, the population is informed about the new legal situation, that it has the possibility to leave and that these contracts are void. When a contract floats into the house pointing out that a business conclusion was made on the basis of a telephone call, it is necessary that people know that, despite this presentation, no contract has been concluded. Especially older people, but of course young people also need sufficient information, information and support.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e10981	As the last speaker on this item on the agenda, Mr Magistrate. Lettenbichler is reported with 4 minutes in word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e11003	Mr President. Estimated ministers! If one has followed the discussion now, one has seen that from the sides of the opposition the classical black-and-white painting has emerged again clearly. On the one hand, there is nothing at all to be trusted with the citizens, they are to be emancipated, and on the other hand, they generally represent all entrepreneurs as unscrupulous. A differentiated discussion of this matter shows, as I believe, that this draft law has actually succeeded in a very, very large throw. I thank both ministers. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Finally, I should like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e11088	The amendment just tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. No one is reporting on this. I therefore conclude the debate. Does one of the rapporteurs want the final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. We come to the vote on the draft federal law on measures against unsolicited advertising calls, which amends the Telecommunications Act, including the title and entry into 1008 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – That too is unanimous. The draft law was therefore adopted at third reading. We shall also vote on the request of the Committee on Research, Innovation and Technology to take note of its report 1032 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall vote on the request of the Committee on Research, Innovation and Technology to take note of its report 1033 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is also accepted by a majority. We are now voting on the draft Consumer Protection Change Act 2011 in 1108 of the Supplements. The following amendments were tabled: Amendment tabled by Mr Tamandl, Mag. Johann Maier, colleagues, Amendment tabled by Mr Mag. Treasure, ladies and gentlemen, Amendment tabled by Mr Dolinschek, colleagues, and Amendment tabled by Mrs Doppler, ladies and gentlemen. There is also a desire for a separate vote by Mr Ing. Hackl before. I have to vote, in accordance with the classification of the draft law, on the parts concerned by the proposed amendments or the request for separate vote, and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Deputies Mag. Treasure, ladies and gentlemen, as well as Members of Parliament Dolinschek, ladies and gentlemen, have each tabled a similar amendment, which refers to point 1. Whoever speaks out for these changes, I ask for a sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We now proceed to a separate vote on paragraph 1 of Section 5 of the Rules of Procedure. 4 of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those Members of the House who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. In addition, Members of Parliament have tabled an amendment to paragraph 1 of Section 5(e) of the Rules of Procedure. 5 refers. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who accede to these amendments to give a sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. I shall immediately vote on this part of the draft law as it stands in the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who speak for it to be a positive sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Deputies Mag. Treasure, ladies and gentlemen as well as Members of Parliament Dolinschek, ladies and gentlemen, have each tabled a similar amendment, which refers to the deletion of paragraph 2. I would ask for a sign if I had agreed to these requests. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on this part of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I am looking for those members of the House who stand for it to be a positive sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Deputies Mag. Treasure, ladies and gentlemen, as well as Members of Parliament Dolinschek, ladies and gentlemen, have each tabled a similar amendment, which refers to point 3. Whoever speaks for it, I ask for a sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on paragraph 3 of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report, taking account of the amendment tabled by Mr Tamandl, Mr Mag. Johann Maier, colleagues. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of this request to be a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to a positive sign. – This is also accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. Finally, we shall vote on the resolution attached to the Committee's report 1108 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. (E 148.) [[13:11:06]] 5. Point Report of the Justice Committee on the report of the Federal Minister for Justice on the general report on the use of special investigation measures in 2008 (III-110/1123, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e11282	We're now on the 5th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Magistrate has spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Donnerbauer. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e11310	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Today we have the general report on the use of special investigation measures in 2008 on the public debate at the plenary session, as already announced by the President. That sounds very cryptic. What is this report about? Since 1998 there have been various possibilities, various investigation measures have been envisaged. More than ten years have passed since then. As a result of the decision taken at that time, it was also foreseen that a report on the investigation measures, their success and possible unauthorised or illegal surveillance measures, should be submitted to Parliament each year and that this report should also be discussed there. These reports are available every year. They have always been discussed in the Committee on Justice. There is a request to discuss these at a plenary session, which is the case today. I think that is quite acceptable. However, I would like to return to that later on, the reason why this report was called for here in plenary would be interesting. What does this report tell us? – The report points out that in 2008 there were three cases of the so-called major noise attack. These are optical and/or acoustic surveillance measures, which can be stimulated by the investigating authorities, by the police and requested by the prosecutor and then require judicial approval. In 2008, there were also three cases of the so-called small noise attack and 107 cases of optical surveillance, which is also known under the term video trap, where it is only a matter of allowing surveillance by video camera for a certain period of time, which requires authorisation. Of course, these cases are, in these investigations, about the suspicion of very serious crimes – from murder, attempted murder, extortion, necessity, to the activity of criminal organizations. In 2008, we had the whole range of crimes, as part of which such investigation measures were then approved. If you look at the success, you have to say that the vast number of applications have been approved by the prosecutor's office by the court. There were only three cases in which the Court of First Instance did not approve of it, because it considered the conditions to be non-existent. In my opinion, this is a success story, because it shows, on the one hand, that in this case, a measure is being taken that these applications are not made easily – and are also about serious interference in privacy, in fundamental rights – and on the other hand, that judicial approval is also working, the courts are really examining. This is evidenced by the fact that there have also been a number of applications which have not been complied with by the courts. The success rate in itself, that is, how many such investigation procedures have led to the investigation of crimes, can be seen in my opinion. In 40 cases, these monitoring methods have been successfully applied and the results of these investigations have actually led to the investigation of crime. As regards the automation-supported data balance, which is the so-called grid suspension, which is also subject to this reporting obligation, there was a case in 2008 where such a measure was arranged. This report is also interesting because the year 2008 was the first year in which the new StPO-Novelle passed and the prosecutor's role in the investigation in the case of criminal offences was strengthened. This shows that on the one hand, the number of applications has not increased significantly, but on the other hand, this is also interesting, the success rate has definitely increased. In 2008, as has been said, in 40 cases these methods were successfully applied, not in 59. In 2007, this method was successfully applied in 20 cases, not in 39. As a result, the success rate has clearly improved. As has been said, this report is quite interesting. It's also important that we get him every year. The reason why we are discussing this today in plenary is probably due to a single case in which this method of investigation has been applied. It may have been that a lobbying organisation has successfully intervened with the Greens in order to get this report into the plenary. We will see this in Mr Steinhauser's speech. Maybe I'm not wrong. Finally, if we are talking about methods of investigation, I would like to point out one point. In the last Committee on Justice, the Green Group has also begun an optical monitoring process, which clearly violates the Rules of Procedure. Despite a call, it was not set. I think that this is very, very problematic, not because we are shy of the public, but because we should comply with the rules of the game that we ourselves give ourselves. I appeal again to everyone here that we, please, accept these rules of the game, because only then will targeted action and a common success be possible here in Parliament. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e11377	The next speaker was Mr Jarolim. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e11398	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. The report, Mr Donnerbauer, has already presented it, is largely unspectacular. He shows that it is appropriate to have these instruments. What I did not find so good when reading through is that the means used to compare the crimes against body and life and against foreign property may actually be disproportionately used in favour of foreign property. Now it should be assumed that these are very important, intensive means of intervention, which are used in the case of trafficking in human beings, for example, in those offences, where there is direct threat to humans. But here I see to my amazement that we have only very few interventions, namely four to 33, two to 34, three to 22. Mrs Bundesminister, dear Otto Pendl, I think that we should look at what has been determined and why in the one area of the use of these funds is so excessive and, on the other hand, not at all. Trust in these measures, of course, depends on how the rule of law as a whole appears. On this occasion I would not like to mention that there are also negotiations which are not presented as a positive development in this context, but rather as a kind of panoptic of the special class, when I look at the procedure in Wiener Neustadt, for example, where precisely these measures have been applied in the so-called animal protection process, namely, under an absolutely disproportionate effort over many years. These are costs of €5.5 million that have been invested. I'm wondering, If one had done the same effort in combating trafficking in human beings – ladies and gentlemen, trafficking in human beings is certainly one of the most tragic circumstances that we have to deal with, and against which we have to fight above all – would we not have achieved much more here than that – I believe the judgment will occur in May – with an extreme tenacity and completely incomprehensible stubbornness in Wiener Neustadt? [[Abg. May. Stadler: That's right!]] What is not even clear is why this is being conducted in Wiener Neustadt, although everything actually has a Vienna reference. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Peek and Cloppenburg!]] I mean, now that there was somehow a good will behind it, I think – you will tell something about your own story – is very difficult. I think it really must be seen that the rule of law occurs in all areas with a certain degree of equality, also a certain serenity in the consideration and not, as here, in an absolutely disproportionate way. We can then continue to have confidence in these measures. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e11451	The next speaker was Mr Mag. Stefan speaking. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e11473	Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, it is about the 2008 report on the use of special investigation measures. We have 2011 – so it is already an unsatisfying state that we are now discussing it and so far away. There were no objections to this report, which has already been discussed. However, there is a lack of evidence to be found: The answer to a request made by us has shown that reports on the use of the IMSI-Catcher did not have to be delivered to the Legal Protection Officer. This means: On a mobile phone, the hardware has a number that you can also query and search for; if this is asked, it must be checked for. Legal protection officers are not notified. That's a gap we should close, maybe it was overlooked. Speaking on this subject, of course, one always comes into the tension relationship between the persecution of criminals and the fight against crime on the one hand and fundamental rights on the other. There is now the question: Where's the trip going? – You already have to highlight what is at present, what is already there and what you have to pay attention to. It has already been said: With the storage of data – a discussion I am going to address – fundamental rights are greatly restricted. We have another topic, which is also known, such as SWIFT data. In other words, the data of every transfer that is carried out in Europe will be centrally processed and – at all times the most problematic – will now be transferred to the USA on request. This request may also be made orally. So this is a big gap, a very big problem. The next point we need to look after is the passenger data. This is also true of us now: Passenger data should be stored in a way that could hardly be imagined. Really everything related to the flight has to be stored, up to the baggage, to the question of when the guest rises, when he rises and so on. It's supposed to be saved for five years. Of course, it should also be stored centrally in Europe as possible, and the exchange with the USA or with other countries in the world is also possible – incredible if you imagine what is happening here! Then as the head of the whole: a European Union research project called INDECT, in which it is a matter of summarising all the data collected somewhere. This is about the data that I have already mentioned to you: about the stock data, about a communication profile of each person – who called with whom, which website, to whom an SMS wrote, how long telephoned? – this, of course, is also a motion profile, because I can tell you about the mobile phones exactly where who has stayed when, and that might be even more detailed about this IMSI-Catcher. So I have a communication profile, I have a motion profile. I then have the account details. Next I have the merger of all the cameras that exist; that's incredible many, there's already a million cameras in London. The data from all these cameras – you pass cameras every day, for example by the banknote and so on, there are cameras everywhere – are summarized, the whole thing is continued in connection with a facial recognition. And what else this research project should do: It is to be found the movement, the behavior of people. If there is abnormal behaviour, this should be reported. An abnormal behavior may show a drunkard who goes strange, or someone who stays unmotivated, or several people who find themselves standing together and standing. There is therefore an incredible possibility of monitoring! That's some kind of reality, some of it coming. It is therefore very appropriate to address these matters extremely sensitively and not to carry out the whole thing, as happened here in the Austrian Parliament, for example in the storage of data: no assessment procedure; something is presented in the Committee itself, with almost all, I would say, carefully earring, because fundamental rights are not respected here, because Security authorities can access all data stored almost without limitation. I am not responding to the details now, but it is at least an access in a way that is very problematic. The whole thing is boxed, and it is said: There is still a new request, and it will be voted on in the plenary session, so the debate cannot take place before. – So this is the procedure in such a sensitive area in which we are whiting at the highest risk! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] One cannot accuse the FPÖ that they want to hinder prosecution. We are always the first ones who, when security authorities are attacked in the media or elsewhere, put themselves first and foremost on the side of the security authorities and say: First, let's see if the police officer didn't do the right thing. We are always the first to stand up for it. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] However, this does not prevent us from preventing a surveillance State, which may be partially established here. This does not prevent us from protesting when directives are adopted at EU level, which ultimately ensure that citizens are monitored. And this does not prevent us from fighting further restrictions on fundamental and freedom rights. That is why I can only call on the other parties – in part thanks to God – to use this sensitivity and we actually trust to resist it at European level. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] A remark on the edge: Sweden, for example, has not implemented this storage of data. It therefore received infringement proceedings, but did not have to pay the penalty, but only the court costs. I believe that we can afford to do that in all that we otherwise send to the whole world – and we should do so in the sense of human rights!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e11564	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Steinhauser. 8 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e11585	Ladies and gentlemen! The report should be an effective control of the special investigation measures, which are an intensive intervention in fundamental rights. In October 2008, the Court of Auditors examined the specific methods of investigation. I would like to address a partial aspect that is interesting for us parliamentarians: It has found that, on the basis of the selective data material, it is hardly possible for parliamentarians to make a comprehensive picture of the use of the special investigation measures. I don't think that's unproblematic. Mr President, I would like to ask you to consider with us how we can improve this report so that Parliament can also comply with the necessary control rights. I can't take a picture of the duties of the Legal Protection Officer. I do not know how many cases he has raised complaints or objections, which is missing in this report. In order to assess whether the system of the legal protection officer works and thus ensure effective control of the special investigation methods, we need to discuss this report, as I believe. I know a procedure mentioned in this report very well: That's the animal protection process. Mr Donnerbauer has made an allusion to the praise by-by-organizations that have intervened, and we have therefore had to take this report on the agenda for today's sitting. This is a good opportunity to perhaps make differences between ÖVP and greens visible here. It is obvious that the ÖVP requires lobbyists and a payment to ensure that certain parliamentary concerns are pursued at EU level. We need neither intervention nor money payments, we control it out of political passion and we also carry out our duties as parliamentarians without additional payment! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Therefore, it was not necessary to intervene by any lobbying groups, but we believe that this report is a good reason – because the procedure is also mentioned in this report – to look at how, through a construction, it is politically motivated to take sharp surveillance measures, which have also been addressed in this report, and at the end of the day, a procedure is being conducted. That is the task of this report, namely to control precisely the abuses in the field of special methods of investigation. The report does not do this, but we can do it. It was clear from the beginning that economic considerations are at the heart of the entire animal protection process. It was a question of making the group of animal protectionists whom the company Kleiden Bauer – under quotation marks – “went on the nerve”, politically and criminally mouth-death. That was the only goal! It must be imagined that the first contact of clothing farmers with the police took place at a time when there was no criminal offence. The only topic of contact was the permanent demonstrations. This may be unpleasant in a democracy, but it is still allowed. That was the reason why you contacted the police. In April 2007, the situation worsened, and the police have already clearly taken sides. It must be imagined that the head of the LVT Vienna Extremism Unit, Mr Autericky, was already clearly in place at this time. In a letter, he gives clothes Bauer tips on how to better shape their public relations in order to also have a better position in the public debate. For example, he recommends showing damaged cars in front of media representatives, and even makes recommendations as to where to make this media effective. As always you can say to the LVT: It is certainly not the task of the LVT to take over the media work of private companies! The further development must be presented in this way: The owner of clothing farmer, Count, has personally intervened with Minister of Interior Platter for an appointment. The next day he already got this appointment with the grouped police chief, it was then the Who is Who the police chief marched up: Long, Buxbaum, Mahrer. It took a day! I'm asking: What citizen, who is the citizen of this Republic, has the opportunity to call an interior minister and get an appointment the next day with the assembled police chief? In turn, the subject was the demonstrations, the business-disturbing demonstrations. The result was: You're setting up a SOKO. Demonstrations – a SOKO is established: It is obvious that the rails that are to be lifted to a criminal level, because clothing builders wanted to get rid of the main annoyance demonstrations and thus business-disturbing demonstrations. In April 2007, the hidden investigator started her work. According to statements by the hidden investigator and her “leader”, under quotation marks, that is, the police, these hidden investigations did not do anything. Excitingly, in turn: History continues on 23.1.2008. There you can see how much the police have already politically hit the side of a private company and wants to engage in criminal proceedings. [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: The victim!]] ==References== January 2008 the SOKO head writes to the police chief: From now on, an LVT official is to be present in each registered demonstration throughout the federal territory, and in addition two WEGA officials are to be dropped per demonstration. The reason for this is as follows: This would also turn the militant animal protectionists into the light of extraordinary demonstrations in the public, thereby evading them. – So once again: The police unit is used to evade a politically unloving group, which may become economically a member of someone. That was the goal! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Donnerbauer.]] Then – in December 2007, January 2008 – § 278a comes into play for the first time. Until then, it has been determined, but never after 278a; for the first time at the beginning of the year, § 278a is put into play by SOKO, with a single goal – and we are now in the report – to come to the sharp investigation methods, namely the great noise attack. December, January, for the first time the SOKO with § 278a, criminal organisation; and in February, March, this major noise attack is approved. From the beginning it was clear: It is a political debate, it is about economic issues, and SOKO and then, in the second level, the prosecutor's office have joined and conducted these proceedings. They have even driven it so far in extremis that they have triggered the special methods of investigation we are discussing in this report. The damage to justice is not to be avoided, the public debates that the process has triggered in Vienna's Neustadt are already there. To a certain extent, I am sorry for the judge in Vienna Neustadt. One can discuss her conduct of negotiations – and you have said that, Mrs Minister of Justice – it is certainly not easy to conduct such a difficult procedure, but it is the one that must be said at the last instance or in the first instance, one must do away with. It has to master a completely unsuccessful construction of police and prosecutors trying to criminalise this animal protection group in the end in a trial and, so to speak, has to perform a performance that is not feasible because this construction coincides. Mrs. Minister, you're required! Two things: The report must become effective. And second: At the end of this process – there will be a judgment at the beginning of May – we will not pass by addressing the cleaning work in your area, i.e. in the field of prosecutorry, police and criminal law. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e11636	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Westenthaler. 7 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e11657	Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr President. Of course, such a report on special investigation methods needs to be discussed in general, and we also need to discuss the current investigation methods of a police authority or the prosecutor's office, namely the moderate use as it is so beautiful. It was also mentioned by my previous speakers, Donnerbauer and Jarolim: This is a serious commitment, namely any method of investigation, which has not been available in this Republic for a long time. I should like to remind you that we had an occasion of so-called serious investigation just about two years ago. There was an illegal question of the telephone records of a Member of this House. The result was then an investigative committee, and this investigative committee has made known and made public in an unprecedented way, such as the prosecutor's office – with which methods, and one can hardly call it more investigation methods – actually proceeds. A whole host of errors, from disregards of laws, yes from illegalities, came to light at the time, about a year and a half ago, when the Committee was concluded, to the famous, year-old Strasser act, which was simply abandoned and to which the accusation of political favor has not yet been removed. At that time, everyone said: Now everything will change, everything will be better, more control, more prosecutors, more staff, everything will be better! But today, one and a half years later, we are standing there, and it is not only better, but it has become much worse! This is actually the point of our accusation. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Not only is it not dimensional, but to a large extent unfair and without measure it is simply determined by partially wild prosecutors from political, purely political motives! That's also exactly what the animal protection process fits in. It is not so different what Mr Steinhauser told us earlier. But that's just an example, that's just one example! There are a whole range of other examples, where it is currently being determined where the prosecutor's office behaves glaringly. I do not mean just the glamorous cases that are now being discussed all the time, or the case that yesterday brought a blamable end to the prosecutors, namely the acquittal for the hypo managers. Due to blamable errors of investigation, the hypo managers have finally been acquitted, and the prosecutor's office has sunk and soundlessly perished there! This is actually a point you need to look at. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Or you have to imagine that the prosecutor's office simply finds out about ÖBB's board of directors. Now you can say that's good, because there's a lot going on there anyway; but there's an example that a year's been determined against an ÖBB board who had died three years earlier. That's also an investigation of the prosecutor's office! This is a scandal, Mrs. Minister! You can't see how the investigative authorities are doing. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Grosz: Sustained also against the dead if it has to be!]] Or, other case: It is determined against the Austrian Football League and against the Austrian Football League because of the suspicion that a promotion from 2003 was misguided by a million €, which is alleged to have not been properly used. As a result of a dubious, false, content-responsible newspaper article, house searches are started immediately, as hearings are carried out, everything happens. Then you will suddenly find a parliamentary response in the act – thank you SPÖ! – from the year 2006, from the SPÖ to the German Chancellor Schüssel, exactly to this support. [[The speaker shall keep the said document up to date.]] And do you know what the competent German Chancellor Schüssel is doing for the best there? – The exact billing of this promotion – completely correct, all associations correctly charged to the cent. He summarizes: Of course, these federal funds were calculated in accordance with the principles and guidelines applicable to federal sports funding, and the factual accuracy was examined and confirmed in accordance with the criteria set out in reply to question 2. - Quote. “The factual correctness testes and confirms”, and that is what the prosecutor thinks. And you know what he's doing? – He gives an investigative order that all 20 presidents, procurists and financial representatives of all 20 associations of the Bundesliga be questioned, checked, searched, even though he knows that everything has been done correctly. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Loading bowl! Prohibition!]] [[Abg. Grosz: The prosecutor continues to determine!]] [[Call the ÖVP: Just write like that!]] This is a scandal and a political persecution, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Ask your party leader, Mrs. Minister! Ask your party leader, Mr Pröll, who sent us a question a few days ago on a request from Dr Pilz. [[The speaker shall keep the said document up to date.]] And you know what he's saying? Literally! – I quote: “... that the documents made known to the Federal Ministry of Finance – to this funding – do not result in any violation of provisions.... ” We have further questions under way, and we will also ask further questions – until this wild authority of the Public Prosecutor's Office in Vienna finally comes to the conclusion that it is intended to stop political persecution in that country, because this is damaging to democracy and the rule of law, ladies and gentlemen! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Loading bowl!]] [[Intrusions of the Abg. Grosz.]] You could go on with this: There is a finding against Mr Stadler because he is also such an unpleasant, such an evil member of the opposition. That's what's going on. But do you know what the only basis of this investigation document is? – A book that you can buy for 20 € in each bookstore. [[Abg. May. Stadler:... Libro!]] It's all incredible! Mrs Minister, you have been called upon to finally get under control the blamable procedures of this prosecutor's office, because that has not happened until today. I'll tell you something. There will be another investigation committee in this House on this subject, the public prosecutor's office in Vienna, and you can already prepare for it today. This investigation committee will come and you will not be able to prevent it by your majority, because it will come at the latest when we have the minority right for investigative committees – and that will come. Then we, Mr Stadler, and I, will be the first to fully understand these powers of the authority in a committee. I can guarantee you this, Mrs Minister, because this is necessary in view of the events and in the light of the background that we are now also deciding on a storage of data. Mr Pendl, I know you felt unwell. [[Abg. Pendl: Object...!]] Just these wild authorities, which are supposed to no longer use significant methods of investigation, but without any degree of determination, are now also giving us the opportunity, without judicial approval, without having any real suspicion at all – purely for suspicions when someone approaches someone – to determine and to obtain these stock data, IP addresses, telephone numbers et cetera, and to understand what is going on – with the ordinary citizen, the journalist, a doctor who has a doctor's secret, with a lawyer who has a lawyer's secret. This will be all because you voted in committee. I hope that you will come up with what you have made for a mistake, that you will have to put it down and insert the BZÖ's two demands, namely that there should be a catalogue of criminal offences, where this data storage of stocks may be applied or access is allowed. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] This must only be – as it stands in the EU's directive – for the fight against terrorism and for the fight against organised crime, and I would add one aspect, namely to the investigation of sexual offences, child pornography, child abuse. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wenninger.]] This three offenses, yes, but then it's all over with fun. Then it cannot be that anyone, of eight million Austrians, only if there is a suspicion, simply read stock data without judicial approval. On the other hand, we are, and on the other hand, we are going to be very serious, Mrs Minister. You have already noticed that in the Committee. Finally, I quote Professor Funk. Unfortunately, Mr Jarolim is no longer here because he has, together with Professor Funk, made a significant press conference. If you do not believe us from the opposition how it is currently ordered by the authorities of criminal law and its handling, please believe an experienced man, namely Professor Funk. This was the case on 17 November. In February a press conference on the weaknesses in the judicial system was held. He is not worthy of an existing archaic criminal law of a modern rule of law. Funk executes – I quote –: ‘In practice, the burden of proof is reversed and the logic of proceedings reversed in practice. If it were so much that you could find out what you had and then sue, you would now see that you were only suing and then looking at what you found. This is devastating for the administration of criminal law, which goes to the basics, that goes to the roots." There's nothing left to add to that. We must face up to this development in criminal justice, which is massively alarming. It can't be that people are accused of suspecting themselves, of proving themselves blamable errors, and then one insists that the authorities have actually failed. That's where you need a lot of action, Mrs. Minister. That's where I'm looking for you to intervene very massively! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e11841	For a statement, Mrs. Federal Minister Mag. Bandion-Ortner. I'll give it to her. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e11862	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The report on the use of special investigation measures, which is actually concerned, contains a great deal of satisfaction, for example, that now also cases where a result of the measure is not yet available at the end of the reporting period. Furthermore, the concerns of the Data Protection Council have been taken into account. But the report also contains a lot different, for example, that the instruments of the noise attack have proved to be efficient and necessary instruments, that these instruments are used in a decisive and proportionate manner, that these instruments have continued to be used effectively and proportionately, after the reform of the criminal process. The success rate has also improved. So this report really contains a lot of positive things. But I would like to point out something else, namely, a report by the Court of Auditors, which has already been mentioned today. No mention has been made of the fact that the Court of Auditors stresses that these major sham attacks and noise attacks, as they are called, are a way of combating crime effectively. The Court of Auditors has also noted that these instruments have been applied in a decisive and proportionate manner. The Court of Auditors also praised the role of the Legal Protection Officer in the Federal Ministry of Justice. He has confirmed that the legal protection officer carries out his functions independently and objectively. The animal protection process was also addressed today. I would just like to say that a judgment in this procedure is expected in a relatively short time. Of course, it is not my job – and it must not be my job at all – to comment on a pending criminal procedure in substance. But one thing I would like to say, unfortunately, Mr Jarolim is not here now: These investigation measures are measures adopted in 2008. - Just so much for it. This report highlights the year 2008, which is right, it has been a long time since. However, the 2009 report is already in Parliament. But to this process, I would like to say that the legal protection officer – the independent legal protection officer – has considered these investigations exactly as it does his function. It noted that the suspicion test was sufficiently successful in ensuring that the assumptions were correct. He has also confirmed that the accused have tried to shield themselves from prosecution measures. So he found these investigation measures to be correct in the specific case, that must be emphasized. [[Abg. Oillinger: But it looks different today! Or?]] On the other hand, the Court of Auditors has confirmed that the legal protection officer has properly exercised his powers of review and control. As I said, otherwise I do not want to say anything about this pending procedure, that is not my job. I would also ask, Mr Westenthaler, that we do not turn the plenary room into a negotiating room. Any pending criminal proceedings should not be discussed here. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: It's not about this, it's about the methods!]] [[Abg. Grosz:... against dead, Mrs. Federal Minister!]] In conclusion: In general, Mr Grosz, I would like to say: We need good, efficient instruments to combat crime, to prosecute, otherwise we are always and forever the second, and no one wants that. [[Abg. Grosz: But we don't have it!]] The magic word, ladies and gentlemen, in all these measures and investigation measures is proportionality. And that this proportionality is safeguarded, our judges and prosecutors take care of it. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Where is it? If relief documents...!]] If you do not believe it, Mr Westenthaler, please believe it to the Legal Protection Officer or the Court of Auditors. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e11981	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Nice to meet you. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e12002	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) High house! [[Abg. Grosz: For half a year...!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: For years, call damage is being done!]] Mr Grosz and Mr Westenthaler, I should like to make a proposal: Count very quietly to ten, consider whether the call is important and appropriate, and make it only then. If you count to ten, maybe it's done again. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Grosz: That’s the method for you: “Hands fold...!”, you know!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out once again, according to the views of my colleagues, that this is the 2008 general report on the use of special investigation measures. Again, the figures on this issue: Throughout Austria, there has been a major squeezing and squeezing attack in four cases, in three cases [[Subsequent calls to the BZÖ.]] I said: Count up to ten, count slowly, count quietly up to ten, then it will be better, believe me! In three cases there was a small squeezing and squeezing attack, in 107 cases the so-called video trap was used, 59 of which were outside, 48 of them within rooms with the consent of the owners. In 40 cases, ladies and gentlemen, monitoring was successful and could contribute significantly to the investigation of crimes. In contrast to the previous years, in which a single appeal was brought, it was 11 times the case in 2008. All of these cases have already been referred to, the area of the Supreme Prosecutor's Office in Vienna, where, of course, most special investigation measures are used. The report now before us is the eleventh of its kind. ==References== In January 1998, the arrangements for special investigations to combat organised crime came into force. At the beginning of 2002, the time-limit applied so far and the special investigation measures came into force and were incorporated into the permanent law. Three common features can be found in all previous reports: In no year since the entry into force there was the so-called Rasterfachung. Regularly, the report stresses that the low number of cases of use does not allow the conclusion that these measures are not necessary. Finally, it is said – as Mrs Bundesminister said very correctly – that the instruments of combating crime are being used in a decisive and, most importantly, proportionate manner. I think the much criticised big noise attack pays off. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler:... Austrian Justice! Special meeting...!]] This is about strengthening the fight against crime. The methods of combating crime must be at least at a level – if not even better – with the methods of criminals. It's about protecting victims, not the criminals. I think that's the essential thing. It is also clear from this report that it has been dealt with in a significant and proportionate manner. I think that's all that's said. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e12097	The next speaker was Mr Pendl. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e12118	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We could have saved ourselves a lot both in the Committee and today at the first item on the agenda. Mrs Bundesminister, I have already told you that Mr Amon and I have tabled two motions for resolutions, two. There were several commitments from your home until when the evaluation of the StPO reform will be available. We still don't have her. In fact, this is one of the key points in the Committee's debate. With all understanding, Mr Westenthaler: You should discuss the issues a little bit objectively. In this report, the delicate data, where no human being says anything about it, except that everyone has worked well, who has worked on legal protection, is all good. In the case of call data, you shall: You mix three different types of law. I am one of those who also want to bring about changes, but this has the following background: It is not only a law matter of the TKG, but it is changed in the StPO a little and in the Security Police Act. What we are discussing here is no better, because it is about the most harmless data. You can now look at all of them on the bills, which in reality is only greatly shortened by the new law. The problem is – some have mentioned this –: What is the determination of a serious crime? Tell me! When I question five people, all five say something else, that's the problem. On certain paragraphs and procedures, Mrs Federal Minister, you can stand as you want, but if you ask those who have decided that, then everyone will tell you that they have no understanding – I do not interfere at all, as I never interfere in a court case, because I stand for jurisdiction, legislative, executive – when the legislator sets a goal and then the terrorist paragraph is used for something like the animal protection case. Then the legislator will think about whether that was right or whether we need to reword it. I'm already with you, colleague Westenthaler: It must come out – and this is the second point that bothers me – which is the crime. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Why do you decide?]] So we either have to write this into the paragraphs or we have to agree that certain stories are not possible at all. However, we are now – and you know all of this very well – actually talking about the harmless data, which you can now all look at about the bills. [[Intrusions of the Abg. May. Stefan.]] Don't turn it around and stylize it somewhere it doesn't belong to. We obviously have two hairs in the soup: We need to look at this one problem in StPO, the other is the question of security police law – not a topic. Please, ladies and gentlemen, how many times have we been negotiating until the second reading? This is normal parliamentaryism, because we do not need to tell each other a story. I think we should – excuse me – deal seriously with the matter, but not completely turn it around. We should discuss the critical points openly and offensively, because there is nothing in it, that is in all our interest. But let's leave the church in the village! We have a need for action, we will certainly work it up, and then, as with the other reports, we will say afterwards: That's actually a good law matter. For this I can invite you very cordially!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e12161	The next speaker was Mr Herbert. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e12182	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Yes, the FPÖ will agree to this report by the Committee on Justice, not only because it shows a careful and decisive handling of the security and justice authorities with the special investigation measures available to them, but also because there has been no objections from the legal protection officer. At the same time, however, I would also like to use this debate contribution to join in where the previous speaker of our group, Mr Stefan, has rightly criticised the planned or planned new investigation options. He has already mentioned some of them. The EU is very busy and shows not only interest, but also an innovative spirit on how to further affect and limit citizens' rights. But one essential point – and I would like to add that here – is the recently also publicly discussed storage of data, because in the future it could also be a so-called, under quotation marks, “opportunity” of a special investigation measure. This option, although very questionable, is critically seen by us. Storage of data, i.e. the untargeted and suspicious collection of communication data, whether by Internet providers or telecommunications operators, is an extremely questionable way of dealing with these data. This is because data is already collected in advance, without any occasion or concrete suspicion of action, and a data pool – similar to a dictatorial state system – is created in questionable intelligence manner under the title of potentially vulnerable terrorism control, so that one can make very accurate personal profiles comprehensible afterwards – and the fundamental rights defender is legitimately skeptical. The right of this criticism has also been demonstrated by hearing in the last judicial committee. Not only has it been criticised in advance that there was no review procedure in relation to the amendments to the Security Police Act and the Criminal Procedures Regulation on this subject and that formal involvement of the Data Protection Council has not been done – but it has, by itself, made a very critical opinion on this proposed EU Directive – but it is true that the hearing in this judicial committee was a devastating rejection for this stockpile data backup: Four out of five experts have clearly opposed the introduction of this data storage because they have identified the most difficult constitutional defects and serious interventions in the fundamental rights of citizens. Interesting in this context was the attitude of SPÖ, which, although Mr Jarolim has clearly confirmed this criticism in his opinion and has noted that there is a need for recovery in this area, has nevertheless agreed here that this data storage of stocks should come. This alone shows how questionably the government parties – or in this case the SPÖ – deal with this important matter and how little citizens' rights are at their heart. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] A brief clarification: We are not concerned with hindering the police or the work of the judicial authorities. On the contrary: The FPÖ – and this has been done by Mr Stefan in his speech – has always stood behind law and order and is behind the judicial and executive officials. [[Demonstrative applause at the FPÖ.]] Therefore, there are already enough mechanisms to make it clear that the work of executive and judicial authorities can also be successfully and efficiently implemented in the future. But let us make it clear that the Federal Government's kneeling is in front of an EU that once again highlights the fundamental and freedom rights of Austrian citizens – I say it – with Feet, as Mr Stefan has already said, comes from the European passenger data storage to the INDECT of the overall surveillance state. And it can't be that the Austrian Federal Government is still supporting this in this form! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e12251	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr Pilz. 7 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e12273	Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Bundesminister, who is one of the sides we need to discuss and will also discuss, is good at all for these surveillance measures and the overriding laws that signal less and less respect for the fundamental rights of people in this Republic. The second thing we need to question is: Who's being monitored here? And: Where does the prosecutor and thus also the minister as her chief chief locate evil in this Republic? [[Abg. Grosz: At Pilz, Stadler and Westenthaler!]] You have given the answer: The worst in this republic are people who protect animals. Perfectly clear: This is the main problem of organised crime, which is why, with all the canons of justice, animal protectionists are shot! - That's how it looks! Mrs Bundesminister, once, when you were still a judge, I allowed myself to attend the BAWAG procedure for a day. [[Congratulation with Greens and BZÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I've seen you treat the main defendants. There would have been a storm of indignation if only one person had been treated in this way in a parliamentary investigation committee. Then I saw the witness Martin Schlaff – one of the most dubious figures in the Austrian economy, and unfortunately one also has to say: politics down to its fulfillment assistants from Gusenbauer. Then I just asked myself one more thing: Now you're going to cook him some coffee during the trial, aren't you? [[Cheerfulness at the BZÖ.]] Such a clear intention not to make one of the key figures of the organised political crime of this Republic the process, so I have rarely seen a clear intention from a judge – and as a minister of justice, you have continued to do so. Now we come to the Minister of Justice Bandion-Ortner: Interesting is not only those who are being monitored under you and against whom all the sharp personal means of the rule of law and criminal justice are used, at least as interesting is the one who is not monitored and against whom are not used the sharpest means of the rule of law! [[Abg. Grosz: ÖVP politician!]] Let's start with the politicians of the Austrian People's Party, let's start with Ernst Strasser! No one can tell us... – No, Ernst Strasser is still a politician of the Austrian People's Party, resting. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: I haven't seen that for 20 years!]] [[Call the ÖVP:Ex-Politics!]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] You have to imagine that people like Ernst Strasser can rest in the ÖVP! There you have to be able to rely very much on the ÖVP that you can rest in the ÖVP after all that has happened! It can only be the ÖVP the party that gives a politician like Ernst Strasser the necessary rest! [[Abg. Grosz: That's it!]] Congratulations on the Strasser Rest, Austrian People's Party! [[Congratulation with Greens and BZÖ.]] Justice has known for many years who is Ernst Strasser. And what happened? – In a parliamentary investigation committee, we have experienced: The act was forgotten. The prosecutor tells us in the investigative committee: Jessas Maria, I forgot about the ad! – Why did he forget about the ad? – Because, in the meantime, he has persecuted the scoreboards, that is, the members of the opposition! Now I'm going to jump to the last day: Thank you, Mrs. Minister, for dealing with me again this time. [[Abg. May. Schönegger: Is nothing new anyway!]] [[Abg. Grosz: That's it!]] Thank you very much, it is soon a personal award that if you publish Kampusch-Akten who prove the abuse of power and illegal instructions in favour of the ÖVP in the cover-up of the Causa Kampusch, then not the coverts, not the People's Party and not the black Ministers of the Interior, but the MP who has published it! [[Abg. Grosz: Unmistakable!]] The Austrian National Council in the Immunities Committee will have to deal with this, because the Austrian People's Party has made sure with a minister of justice like the one who is behind me that the other side, namely the indicators and the detectors, is always being persecuted and that the political Gauners are under the protection of the highest posts in this Republic! [[Congratulation with greens and the BZÖ.]] It is no coincidence that more and more people find that in many years of black and blue coalitions, the rule of law has turned Austria into a Gauner Republic and the right is systematically abused! What about Uwe Scheuch? Where is Uwe Scheuch's surveillance? Where are Uwe Scheuch's account openings? Where is the house search at Uwe Scheuch – in his insurance fraud, which has never been persecuted, in the purchase of citizenship, where the prosecutor's office is sleeping but still pursuing a few “speechs”, and now at Connect, where the money is transferred directly to the Freedom Accounts and the Mr. Strache for the Mr. [[Abg. Grosz: Or at Connect!]] Is there any political lubrication? [[Congratulation with Greens and BZÖ.]] Where's the prosecutor's office? Where's the Minister of Justice? And why are blue gauners under the protection of a black justice? That's what I'm asking slowly! Why is it always very simple when the leading corruption party of this Republic, namely the Freedom Party, in its ranks of criminals and most serious suspects of corruption, get away from it, why then does nothing happen in justice, Mrs Minister of Justice?- Oh, my God! [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: You immune coward!]] Why is there a special blue-black protection for corruption in this Republic? Why did you lower the corruption rules for officials? Why are officials allowed to accept gifts again because of your initiatives, Mrs. Justice Minister? Do you know who this initiative came from? – by Dr Wolfgang Schüssel, who went from group to group and said: Could you not, yes, the "sleeve wiper" is yours, Doctor Schüssel! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Schüssel.]] You are not only the lobbyist of the German nuclear power industry here in this house, but you are also a pioneer in anti-corruption measures! You know exactly what you're protecting this corruption republic, because you've been their federal chancellors for a long time and contributed as much as a few of you to the rape, mutilation and disability of the rule of law. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: Is a doctor present?- Oh, my God!]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] That was the system bowl-hair-grass, under which this Republic still suffers! [[Abg. Grosz: Without Haider!]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We must ensure that, despite the Minister of Justice and despite the influence of the Austrian People's Party on parts – not on the whole, on parts – of the State Procuratorate's Office and the large majority of dubious prosecutors, we have the opportunity not to focus on the party interests of ÖVP and FPÖ, but only on the interests of the Austrian rule of law! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e12602	Dr. Peter Pilz, for your comments, such as the fact that under the Black and Blue Government the rule of law has changed into a "gauner republic" and that the "leading corruption party" in that country is the blue party, I give you a call for order in terms of the previous use – because of the flat-rate, undifferentiated evasion that you have expressed to parties and representatives here in the House. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Stadler. 9 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e12645	Mr President. High house! We will certainly not do one thing, Mrs Bundesminister: that we take the prosecutor's office out of parliamentary control. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Very important!]] They would have liked to see this coming out of a meeting which they had hoped for at the end of June in Kössen. That's awfully unpleasant for them. You have the desire to be free from any control, and that is political. Because the animal protection process was mentioned in Wiener Neustadt and was taken as an opportunity to discuss this report today in the house, I say to you: This process proves as rarely any process, ladies and gentlemen, how the Bohemian criminal trial novelle has failed with regard to the abolition of the judge! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The judge is missing like just something. – You can calmly praise, it was always your position. I'm sorry about the judge, too. The judge must now make up for the trial that the prosecutor and the police have not previously brought together in Kumpanei, that is to say, to consider whether there may even be reasons to terminate proceedings and accept the innocence of those concerned. That is the point, Mr Pendl. You really have to be careful. I should like to remind the SPÖ of the consequences of such monitoring measures: Do you remember, Otto, the so-called “Adelheid, it’s so far” e-mail? Mr Kogler remembers himself. There they asked your party accounts – and you still want to give them the instrument legally! Are you still to be saved, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ?- Oh, my God! If you finally get on the brake, don't you see what's happening here?- Oh, my God! You've got your party accounts lit! “Adelheid, it is so far.” – What happened to officials? - Nothing! What happened to the Minister? – Nothing! They've been protected. The prosecutor has forgotten the file convolut, we've already heard that. Today, this prosecutor would have to insist that he did not allow a minister to slow down by criminal proceedings, which is now embarrassing even to the Austrian People's Party as an EU member. That's how it looks, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on BZÖ and Greens.]] You of the ÖVP have reason to remain silent! A party that has to take its own moral standard decisions in the club, because otherwise there is no morale, has reason to remain silent and to go, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] - Yes, we'll be right there, ladies and gentlemen! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hoefinger.]] - Who do you mean? You mean Mr. Scheuch? Which was financed by your company “Red Carpet” in the vicinity of Mr. Strasser? A black party company is funding Mr. Scheuch in Carinthia, ladies and gentlemen – Mr. Pilz, you forgot to mention that – proveably! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Clickovits.]] Black party company from the vicinity of Mr. Strasser and Mr. Lopatka finances Mr. Scheuch. There is nothing happening to Mr Scheuch, not only with BMW, since it has not considered a black insurance company to be damaged at all. Then the black party leader comes and ensures that his friend Scheuch is financed in Carinthia, and then a black ministry ensures that nothing happens to Mr. Scheuch. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] There was no house search at all, it wasn't even the talk about it. I can invite all those who can take part in the Immunities Committee today. Mrs. Federal Minister, maybe you have time, come by as well. I am going to be happy to go myself today, and I am going to prove, in a minute, how one tries to bring some criminal proceedings against members of the opposition with ridiculous book literature during the service, while the great Gauners and corruptionists are being run and no house searches are carried out, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on BZÖ and Greens.]] To date, there has been no house search at Mr Grasser. And wouldn't have been a media pressure and wouldn't even have liked the ÖVP chief from the sickbed and said: So, now it's enough for us with the Straster!, nothing would have happened. The Public Prosecutor's Office originally said: No, there's nothing about it! They didn't even have an act, as the first spokesman of the prosecutor said they had no reason to do anything, ladies and gentlemen. That is, if the prosecution in this country notices that it is unpleasant to political power, then the lid will be placed on it. If you notice that you are going against the opposition, you even have time for post-mortem book literature. This will be a funny immunity committee, I can guarantee it today. Mrs Bundesminister, I wish you this process, and I tell you what will happen there: There we will put the prosecutor's office on the dock, not the Ewald Stadler, I guarantee you today! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Call the ÖVP: Don't shout!]] I would like this process, with great media support, to make it clear to you what you really are doing with your prosecution in this country. Next case: It's not just about animal protectors, it's also about lifeguards. Mrs. Federal Minister, can you tell me how four innocent, good people, whose most important tool every day is the Rosary, come to be brought to justice only because they are trying to save unborn life? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz]] This is currently happening in Graz. This is not about animal protectionists who have damaged companies such as Kleiden Bauer or Peek & Cloppenburg, no, they are facing abortion ordination, pray there and speak to women – very politely, that's what all women have said. The background is that this was in your ministry for a year and a socialist chief prosecutor in Graz has made sure that an indictment was filed, although there was a continuation request that would have been submitted to the competent Senate of the Supreme Court, but he was abstained from it. Instead, four innocent citizens are brought to trial. – Your ministry has approved all of this! For a year, this act was in your ministry, and it was approved. Four innocent people, for whom this is not an easy situation, must be allowed to do so because you are unable to establish the rule of law in advance because the judge is missing, ladies and gentlemen! That's the problem: Their prosecutors do what they want, the reds as well as the blacks! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Grosz: That's it!]] When it comes to protecting against lifeguards, it's the red ones when it comes to protecting politicians and corruptionists, it's the blacks. But it's a love service to power. This only shows that you work exact coalitionary in the prosecutor's office. That's the background, I can prove it to you minutely! Come on. You're in the immunity committee today! It is your prosecutors who are the subject of this committee today. And I'm going to tell you today: If the Procuratorate believes in Vienna, she has to make politics, then she is very well lifted with me, I am already looking forward to it. You won't turn this off! And we will ensure in this House that there is an ongoing parallel subcommittee comparable to the State Police, which will control the activities or inactivity of the Public Prosecutor in the future. Whether you are reintroducing the investigating judge or not – this committee is due because the public prosecutor's office needs parliamentary control to stop the party-political agitation and inactivity of this prosecutor's office, ladies and gentlemen! Last point: There is currently no place, Mrs Bundesminister, as scandalized by scandals as yours. I'll just bring you a few words: 300 fake wills found in Vorarlberg alone. Over years! There's a visitor, but I want to know what there's even a visitor for. You should not monitor the citizens, but you should monitor your own judicial officials! Ladies and gentlemen, only because I have found out that I have been given credit – and a Vorarlberger is allowed to agree on everything, not just his credit rating – has shown that in this country, for seven years, illegal data from the judiciary have been streamed into the obscene credit information company. If I hadn't put pressure on the judicial committee, nothing would have happened. It would have been planned again in the prosecutor's office; it would have been put on record, because the company is already holding together. In the meantime 23 officials have been suspended, procedures are under way, and it is probably not the end of the flag rod. There are other companies that also have unique information. Ladies and gentlemen! Cocaine trading from the Asservat chamber – your ministry! A judge who is never there and instead has his staff and his secretary sign decisions – your ministry! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: A suspect who died!]] A suspect who doesn't even exist anymore. [[Abg. Grosz: This is your ministry!]] Ladies and gentlemen, all these things show that the Austrians are increasingly having reason, most important, at the central point, at the nerve of the rule of law, to have doubts about justice. These doubts are more and more justified. Ladies and gentlemen! High National Council! We will need a correspondingly parallel, permanent subcommittee for the Procuratorate. I will, by all means, prevent the prosecutor's office from slipping out of parliamentary control.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e12854	Mr Fazekas has just spoken as the last speaker on this item on the agenda. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e12875	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Stadler, if you present this as a person concerned in this emotionality, which is quite understandable, then I must say: This shows us once again how urgent the evaluation of the criminal process reform we are waiting for is. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Ask Jarolim! He says the same thing only with less emotion!]] Dr. Pilz also mentioned it. Mrs Bundesminister, I would ask you once again to present it as soon as possible. We will simply not get around discussing the need to make the prosecutor independent, so that the intention, which was then, at the end of the nineties, under the then Minister of the Interior and Justice, was decisive, namely to introduce methods of investigation which should be used to combat serious and serious crime, and which is not in other directions. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Under control!]] There have also been discussions today about cases that are going to have to be considered very carefully, and we all know them. Finally, however, we must not forget that the report on special investigational measures is being discussed today, on cases of culprit crime. We also know that this is not the case, for example, with the current template. We discuss the seriousness of the cases and have not yet agreed on the terms. I consider it particularly important not only to link these measures, which are linked to major interventions in fundamental rights, to judicial approvals – we already have – but also to be discussed in Parliament. This is a special controlling instrument. This report also makes it quite clear that there is a particularly critical field of tension between the weapons needed to combat crime on the one hand and the necessary intervention in fundamental rights on the other. Mr Stefan referred to this in particular. We see this also in the ongoing discussion on data storage, which will certainly not be able to come in this form, as we discussed in the Committee last time. We must be clear that security authorities and law enforcement authorities benefit from all the instruments we give them as legislators. Why shouldn't they do that? We see in the ongoing discussion or in this report that, apart from a few exceptions – of which we have already heard today – special sensitivity is being done. The problem, according to the report, is sometimes the technical prerequisites. It has become clear that in the event of several noise attacks, they have caused them to fall and become obsolete because the technique has not worked. Of course, that shouldn't happen. Nor is it intended to destroy records, ladies and gentlemen, because most of them have been recorded abroad. We know the criminal structures, they are internationally networked and they also operate far beyond national borders. It is important here to assess whether the Intergovernmental Agreements allow for a rapid and efficient response. If there are such interventions, they should be at least targeting. Requests for legal aid must not be made too late. At the end of the day, however, this report also shows that effective crime control of the Great Lauss Attack and the Great Spouse Attack is simply necessary and targeted. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e12927	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We are now voting on the request of the Committee on Justice to take note of this report III-110 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of it to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. [[14:26:38]] 6. Point Report of the Justice Committee on the Government Template (1055, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law establishing a Federal Law on Certain Aspects of Transboundary Mediation in Civil and Commercial Matters in the European Union and amending the Civil Procedure Order, the IPR Act and the Addiction Law (1125 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e12975	We're now on the 6th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. It is the first Mrs Steibl to speak. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e13003	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. This law is intended to implement an EU directive on certain aspects of mediation in civil and commercial matters. The Mediation Directive aims to promote the attractiveness of mediation. This will facilitate access to justice in the European judicial area. This applies to European citizens as well as companies. Both should be able to provide suitable dispute resolution procedures in cross-border disputes. In Austria, there has been the Civil Law Mediation Act since 2004. The system has proved itself. It should continue to apply to registered mediators and mediation procedures carried out by them. This high standard will not change. The German Federal Law on cross-border mediation is therefore intended to regulate only cross-border mediation in the EU area. It includes, on the one hand, definitions of the mediator and mediation, and some aspects such as the confidentiality of the mediation procedure and the inhibition of the limitation of the claim during the mediation procedure. With regard to confidentiality, it is provided that mediators in court proceedings or arbitration proceedings must refuse statements on information arising from mediation proceedings. In addition to the fact that the parties had agreed otherwise, an exception is possible. And that's... Where, for reasons of public order, it is necessary, in particular, to ensure the protection of the child's well-being or to avert the physical or psychological integrity of a person, or if disclosure of the content of the agreement reached in the mediation procedure is necessary for the implementation or enforcement. This Act also contains a provision on the enforcement of a written mediation agreement. In this way, the parties are given the opportunity to obtain an enforceable title through their written agreement concluded in mediation proceedings. The data from the Austrian mediation procedures are also exciting. Although they are not quite available in concrete terms, gross estimates show that mediation is a very important area. Thus, most of them are economic mediations with approximately 10,000 cases per year. And in the field of equal treatment, there are about 9 000 mediation procedures each year. In half of the cases of economic mediation there is a written agreement, of which about 20 percent are seeking an execution title for these schemes. It's It should be assumed that some of those concerned continue to rely on the existing instrument of the Notarial Act. So if one assumes that this is about half, one comes to 500 registration cases per year. Summary: Meditation means positive conflict resolution for me. In my opinion, this method would be appropriate or possibly a way for so many disputed organisations and parties here in the house. I have one more request, a very personal request: Mediation also has something to do with conflict resolution in the separation of parents into divorce. The Federal Minister is to be supported. We will support them with a view to a common care, for this is about the child's well-being.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e13063	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Steßl-Mühlbacher. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e13084	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! The aim of the Civil Law Mediation Directive is also that more people, more individuals, as well as more business companies use mediation. Because we just talked about the family: Everyone knows such examples. Mrs H. and Mr M. have two common children, living in divorce or having ended their community. They have two common children of two and four years of age and have come to mediation, since they did not agree on the education or the leisure of children and could not reach an acceptable solution for all concerned. In the course of mediation, however, the interests of the parents as well as the children were clarified. After half a year, the agreed arrangements were reviewed and continued. The duration of the mediation process was three per hour meetings within three months. This is actually a nice result when you know the other variant, when families go to court, fight in court, and the processes are often endless. The Austrian Mediation Act, which has already been discussed, goes far beyond the directive, in particular with regard to the qualifications of mediators and mediators. Therefore, the implementation of this Directive is also limited to applying certain provisions to cross-border activities in the EU area. I welcome the implementation. Mrs Steibl, we will certainly continue to talk about the common care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e13119	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Musiol. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e13140	Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My previous speakers have already explained what this directive is all about. We think it is a very good solution, in addition to existing laws, which, as already mentioned, represent a very good design of civil mediation, to find a way to implement, so that the high standards that exist can also be maintained. Let me say a few basic things about mediation: As a mediator who has been practicing for over 15 years, I know how it has developed, and I also see how many people want to use it. The aided mediation, i.e. the possibility of being able to take advantage of the Ministry in family matters, is very important so that it does not depend on income, whether people can choose not to let the judge decide on her, but to find her own solution. Nevertheless, I have the impression, not only as a mediator, but also as a politician and from discussions with other professional groups working in the field, that this has not yet come to all the population groups or perhaps not to all courts that there is this possibility. And so a certain group of people comes to us. It depends very much on whether they receive the relevant information at court or not. Therefore, Mrs Minister, I would like you to think with your department about whether, in the course of the debate on the question of care, to which I will say something later, I would like to think again about starting an information campaign, and so not only mediation in the field of civil law, but also in other areas – and then there are more questions about your colleagues – such as school mediation and many other mediations, too. Wherever they are used, it is also the case that people benefit from the fact that procedures are cut short by people finding solutions that fit them. On the care: Mrs Steibl, Mediation, that is our view, is a more sensible variant than a disputed procedure in court. And that is precisely why there is no need for a common care that is automatically imposed, but we know that people who separate, who have a certain relationship story, are not always necessarily capable of finding a good solution for their children and for themselves without any external influence. [[Abg. Strache: Common care is the solution!]] But we also know that it makes no sense for you to... – No, we also know, Mr. Strache, that it makes no sense to force them to be together, because at this stage there is no common ground. [[Abg. Strache: The child has a right to both parents!]] Listen to me! We can then continue to discuss. – The child has a right to both parents, but the child also has a right not to be exposed to an escalated situation. That is why our proposal, rather than an automatic common care, is designed, so to speak, to allow for the possibility of parents de-escaling and finding a solution together in the interests of children. This means quite specifically that we propose across-the-board veneration points, veneration points, where mediators, social workers, psychologists, therapists work and where the parents – no! – manage to get away from their couple relationship level to a parent level in the sense of further childhood and the further development of their children. [[Abg. Strache: This is lobbying for mediators!]] Mrs. Minister! Against this background – and I have already told you in committee – I think that the basic proposal of a conciliation body that you have put into your draft is a very useful one. The difference between your proposal and our proposal, however, is that we want all persons, before they go to court and compete there with each other with requests and mutual accusations, to come to a conciliation body. [[Abg. You're supposed to expand this one! As a mediator you operate lobbying for mediation!]] This is not a business, because these institutions already exist. It is not the case that such institutions need to be invented. Only these different institutions must be placed in front of the courts. That is the crucial point! Well, if we consider an institution to be useful and know that this institution leads to the instigation of disputed proceedings in court, with judges, then that is, I believe, not a question of the budget, but one of political will. [[Abg. Strache: So it's about the utilization!]] They do the following in the care discussion: [[towards FPÖ]] They do not address arguments, they do not focus on whether it makes sense to help people in this situation to find their own self-responsible and authorized solutions, but they discuss the common care and link it to children's rights. [[Abg. Steibl: It's about this too!]] [[Further calls at ÖVP and FPÖ.]] I just gave you the keyword. They do so instead of understanding that it is not in the minds of the children if one forces the parents to find common solutions for these children in this escalated phase. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Strache: It's about children's rights!]] Mr Strache, we will continue this discussion – and in this we are not alone: All experts are on our side – and the only ones who want to draw a different picture are the right parties and/or the ÖVP.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e13305	Next, Mr Magistrate. Stadler. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e13326	Mr President. High house! Firstly, Mrs Bundesminister, the possibility of making a mediation agreement enforceable in the future is a very reasonable matter. As a result, the mediation procedure also has more meat and salary. This is really desirable, and I believe that it is possible to regulate some things – hopefully more and more – at the mediation level before going on to court. It is therefore absolutely necessary to welcome this opportunity, so to speak, to establish a pretorial comparison by means of a mediation procedure. We also support this change as it is necessary in the IPR Act to deal with the consequences of changing the ordinary residence of child parents, because it would really not be possible to see that, in particular, the unmarried father would be affected if another rule of law were to be applied which would be automatic in law from the change of normal residence. That is why, Mrs Musiol, I believe that this system, which you are taking part in, also shows that, in principle, everything is going towards common care, including, of course, this one. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Musiol.]] It is not the withdrawal of a parent entitled to care that is the consequence, but the consequence of joining is the consequence. It marches everything towards common care, and you will not be able to stop it for ideological reasons. Faith You're me! That's where the development is about. Ladies and gentlemen! The common concern is reasonable from the point of view of the child as well as from a process-economic and process-tactic point of view. Why? – Because with the basic common care the child no longer becomes a “pression mass” for one of the two parents. That's the reason. [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] Her language was treacherous today. They say: We reject the common care, we have a different solution. But the solution is that we need to discuss a solution. [[Interlocutory calls from Deputies Mag. Musiol, Mag. Korun and Mag. Schwentner.]] They have no solution to the problem that children in this country continue to be used by one of the two parents in a non-insignificant number of cases to a pressure mass for very different interests – in part for maintenance interests and rights of access – and I am saying that they are abused. [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] We're going to stop this abuse. This is also a very subtle form of child abuse, and we stop it. [[BZÖ and Abg. Bitch.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would remind you that there was a survey here in the house, and that what you said was incorrect. The majority of experts thought that common care had charm, and only a disappearing minority – yes, she was the disappearing minority – was contrary to the opinion, but you were quite dirty for a while when you experienced this survey. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] There you were pretty dirty, because you didn't expect even the experts nominated by you to believe that this was happening. [[Abg. May. Worm:... such a shame city!]] - Please? I wasn't at all a town of reproach, quite the contrary. [[Abg. May. Worm:... Smear town!]] Mrs. Colleague, there's got to be more than you do to make me a maligned city, especially when I have the protocols on my side. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. May. Worm: Yes, yes, yes, yes!]] Check the logs! [[New calls to the SPÖ.]] That means a little bit of trouble, I know. Your memory obviously leaves you in the dark. Check the logs! [[Abg. May. Worm: You should...!]] Look, it doesn't use anything if you conjure up, no! Because Voodoo doesn't work for me. This is mostly ineffective in Catholics. [[Further call to the SPÖ.]] That's why I'm saying: End with this form of subtle child abuse, as told at all with child abuse! I therefore propose a motion for a resolution which has the following substance: Mr President, I only read the headlines: First: Better protection by means of a Federal Children's and Youth Assistance Act as well as an increase in funds; second: Parent youth passport for prevention; thirdly: General obligation to display in case of suspicion of abuse and abuse; fourthly: Lifelong in queals with death row; fifthly: No limitation of criminal acts against sexual integrity and self-determination, body and life or the freedom of minor victims; sixthly: Doubling the criminal framework in criminal acts against the sexual integrity and self-determination of children and children's quelling; seventhly: Harder penalties for sexual abuse of the unmistakable; Consequenced penalty; ninthly: Strengthened life-long control measures after the execution of the sentence; tenthly: Action against cyber-grooming, i.e. to start sexual contact with minors over the Internet. Mrs Bundesminister, we started a corresponding initiative six weeks ago, we continue to do so because we are taking you to the floor. I do not doubt your good will, but I believe that you will be abandoned by some in your own ranks. [[Abg. May. Worm: Together...!]] We have taken this opportunity to put pressure on this action until these things are implemented. This is necessary in the interests of children in this country. Have you calmed down now, Mrs. Colleague? [[Abg. May. Worm: Main thing you...!]] – Ah, the memory comes back slowly. Read it! With your resistance, you are only in a position to prevent Mrs. Federal Ministers from doing something reasonable by means of coalition sand. [[New calls of the Agg. May. Worm]] This coalition sand will come out to you because the facts speak a clear language. Common care is the future, international!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e13512	The resolution just presented in its main guidelines is sufficiently supported, in accordance with § 55 para. 3 in conjunction with § 53 para. 4 Rules of Procedure whether its scope is distributed in the hall and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e13681	Next speaker: Mrs Franz. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e13719	Today we are implementing this EU directive on cross-border mediation. [[Interim calls at BZÖ and SPÖ.]] Internationally, this extrajudicial dispute settlement has gained in importance. The European Mediation Directive now provides a uniform legal framework for the relationship between mediation and judicial proceedings in Europe. The aim of this law is also to increase the willingness to meditate, because where there are conflicts between two or more persons, sustainable and constructive solutions can be developed with the help of mediation. This, of course, also applies to the common care. I therefore think that this must be implemented very well – for the benefit of the child. Funded mediation in family matters is particularly important. It makes sense to have common care. Let us not assume that parents are fundamentally unreasonable – even in the case of divorce! Parents are responsible for their children, for which they are responsible. They know that too, and children have a right to father and mother! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That's why: Let us create this common care! But let us also create mediation points so that we resolve these conflicts in advance – not through the court, but through mediation! Let us try to implement what has proved successful in Germany here too!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e13765	Next speaker, last speaker on this agenda item: Mrs Mag. Mulder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e13786	Mrs. Minister! Minister! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Return to the Mediation Act, which was jointly decided here a few years ago, with which very good experiences have also been made and which has proved itself very well: It works very well here, and therefore I think that you should use censure sites for everything that can solve conflicts. The aim is to resolve the conflict and find an out-of-court or court solution. If this is not possible, of course, nothing can be prescribed even if the conflict persists. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Of course, mediation sites are very positive if they manage to relax the situation. Essentially for such a law works that mediation works is the quality of mediators. Of course, training in Austria is excellent and to a high degree. This EU directive, which is to be implemented today with the government template, does not specify the qualifications of mediators. In other words, the presentation is only implemented to a minimum. The current mediation law remains in place – for mediators and for mediation procedures. However, I believe that this should also be a model for future implementation of EU directives, namely that we adhere to our standards, to our legal situation, if there is no such high legal protection or standard in these directives as in the Austrian proposal. I would also like to point out briefly that the implementation of the directive will also extend the planning offices in courts. They must then also be approved, Madam Minister of Justice, there will already be an increase. There are also no figures on the mediations carried out in Austria, but we depend on estimates. The Ministry assumes that approximately 10,000 cases per year are carried out in the economic mediation, and then the case balance follows. I think that should be changed so that we can really rely on well-founded figures. Overall, it can be said that the objective is to increase the attractiveness of mediation, to improve access to justice in the European judicial area and to maintain our high standards in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e13843	No one is reporting on this. I therefore conclude the debate. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 1125 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – That too is unanimous. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members Bucher, colleagues and colleagues on measures to improve child protection against abuse and abuse – BZÖ offensive: More child protection now! – Week 6. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. [[14:52:04]] 7. Point Report by the Committee on Consumer Protection on amendment 1241/A(E) by Mr Mag. Johann Maier, Gabriele Tamandl, Dipl.-Ing. Gerhard Deimek, Mag. Birgit Schatz, Sigisbert Dolinschek, colleagues on misinformation (Hoaxes) on the Internet, in particular on health and food matters (1109 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e13926	We're now on the 7th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Lipitsch has spoken. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e13953	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Dear listeners at the gallery! We are discussing a motion for a resolution on misinformation in the Internet on health and food matters, so-called hoaxes, which are currently on a massive scale. Mails concerning medicines, food supplements and additives flourish in the individual inboxes, and through the ever-increasing networking, through the social networks and forums, of course, there is a massive increase and the broadcasts of these false messages. With these false reports, people are greatly insecured. False reports concern not only the production of food, but also its composition and enrichment, for example with vitamins. This also creates health risks. These actions are also designed to undermine certain health policy measures. In the following, self-proclaimed experts and economically motivated stakeholders stand to do business or to enforce their interests in this form. Especially in the case of medicinal products, disease prevention and treatment methods, this information, which is spread through these emails, is very dangerous, as health damage can lead to deaths. A corrective position or dementation is only possible much later in this area, because the ministry must first receive knowledge of these emails and have the opportunity to place expert opinions on its homepage. This is always possible in retrospect and for many who do not inform themselves here, then not rereadable. In this context – and therefore this resolution – it is important that these false reports are collected and analysed in the area of the Internet, technical opinions are produced and also published so that the population has a real basis for their decisions. Minister of Health! I believe that Austria at EU level, represented by your person, can bring momentum into this important discussion. We can only support this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e14004	The next item is the report by Mr Rasinger. I would draw attention to the fact that I will interrupt the meeting at 3 p.m. So I set the clock to 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e14026	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! In the beginning, I didn't know what Hoaxes was called – wriggle how to pronounce the word. [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] Meanwhile, I know that this is misinformation. Now you could ask: What is wrong information on the Internet for a doctor? In the meantime, I also know that this is not so without it. There is targeted dissemination of information via mass emails and chain emails, which are simple and simply wrong. That too, you might say, is not disturbing. But if, for example, in the Codex Alimentarius – which is a book on food – it says that homeopathy is dangerous that brook flowers are dangerous, that medicinal herbs and teas are forbidden, that dangerous substances are in there everywhere, then there is no fun anywhere, because there are not only people who are cool and people who eat it, who take it and have other information, but there are now very, very many people who simply and simply fear and fear. There are now reports in Europe that because of this fear people have either neglected treatments or even got sick. And that is why, I believe, it is necessary for the EU – first – to compile correct information and, second, counter-information on an objective basis. And that's why we're asking. We ask the Minister to become active – At European level, because this is not just a problem that Austria is facing – so that we can get real and objective information in the sense of consumer protection and not be unsure by mass emails.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e14077	Next, Mr Jannach. I'll set the clock to 2 minutes, because I'll have to interrupt the speech because of the call of the urgents. [[Abg. Jannach: (in the direction of President Dr. Graf) Should I go after?]] – Ladies and gentlemen, you still have a little more than two minutes. Please start.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e14114	Mr President. Estimated Minister! We have already talked about Cold Call this morning, and this request that we are now bringing together – all five parliamentary parties – is essentially dealing with something similar, only at the Internet level. What I don't understand: The request that we will, of course, contribute can only be a first step in this direction, as it aims to ensure that the EU collects technical opinions, analyzes these false information and then publishes it. It has already been mentioned today that these publications are always possible in retrospect and that there can be great uncertainty among consumers. We would like to see these things published not only, but, as we have now done in the Cold Calling process, we would have wanted to be even more generous – to suspect these things. It would be desirable for us to impose severe sanctions on companies that deliberately harm consumers, deceive consumers, and impose sanctions at European level for companies who deliberately place false information on the Internet and thus simply do business. In Austria, or at European level, we needed a monitoring body that monitors, detects, reports and ultimately suspects these things. Europe-wide criminal provisions should be introduced here. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In addition, we would like people to be keenly alerted to such efforts by Internet companies to clarify them. Here I would like to see fewer evangelizations of ministries, but really open information for the citizens who are already starting in school. This morning, we have already been presented with the idea of Mr Mayer's idea that this information is being started at school, because here we can raise awareness and inform the citizens – whom we want as critical citizens – openly and objectively that not all that is spread on the Internet is actually true. [[President Dr. Graf gives the bell sign.]] These frauds on the Internet, which deliberately harm citizens and consumers from purely business-making, belong to the craftsmanship laid by law.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e14174	I am now interrupting the debate on item 7 of the agenda so that the urgent question requested can be dealt with at 3 p.m. in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. [[15:00:40]] Request for urgent procedure by Mr Josef Bucher, colleagues to the Federal Chancellor concerning: Enough paid for Pleite States – from Europhoria to Eurosclerosis (8097/J)
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e14204	We come to the urgent debate on the written question 8097/J. As this has now been done to all the Members, there is a lack of reading by the author. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e14532	I give Mr Klubobmann Bucher as the first questioner on the grounds of the urgent question referred for a preliminary ruling pursuant to § 93 para. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e14553	Mr President. [[The speaker presents a table with the title “Faithful! ” on the speaker’s desk.]] Welcome again, Federal Chancellor, to a debate on your promises made last weekend. We've come to see you a bit after You complained in the morning that you had too little time to explain yourself to us. We would have anyway assumed that it would be worth making such important issues as billions of promises, loans, liability of taxpayers at least in the House a government statement on this. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Riepl.]] That would have been the minimum from our point of view. On all the other marginal issues that no one is interested in except perhaps the SPÖ, you find it urgent and important to report and explain to us in the House, but on that topic that makes the Austrians future guarantees, ladies and gentlemen, is not a statement or a justification to you. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The additional burden on taxpayers will be enormous. The extra burden on citizens will extend over generations over the next few years and will certainly touch every wallet, no matter what level of income it will affect, which social layer will be affected. We have not yet received any explanation from you, not even in the morning, so we now expect my questions, which I have put to you in writing, to inform us once more of what happened to you in Brussels during the negotiations, what you have thought, if you make great commitments there about liability, new liability, a new aid to Greece, credit that you have granted there, about your presence, towards a European central government. [[President Mag. Prammer is taking over the presidency again.]] What are your thoughts and concepts that you hopefully let go of when you agreed there? – In the reports that have been made available to us about this Council meeting, nowhere is there a syllable of you, a statement from you that you would have been working for the future to return the amounts that we are going to pass that there are, for example, stricter controls for the banks. This is what we always hear here, when it comes to debates in the House, or when it comes to carrying out government propaganda, but in Brussels you are silent, you are silent. Your arguments, you are petty and – unfortunately God – you are far too careful, ladies and gentlemen! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] ==References====External links== Last May, when a night-and-nebulous action of this Greece package was decided. In Austria, for many weeks, months in the field of education, universities – wherever – are being discussed and discussed about small millions of amounts, but when it came to falling under the arms of a pleite state that has torn the entire European Union into the abyss and deceived us over many years, with €110 billion, it was possible within hours. People don't understand that. How can such a thing be done to support a country that has saved a country that has supplied it with false figures, figures and facts for many, many years? – In a partnership you don’t do that! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This is not solidarity! This is misunderstood solidarity and assistance. This has led to the whole disaster and the entire euro disaster and mudice and has violated all the rules of the game that have been set for monetary union. Game number one was the Stability Pact – it was hurt and broken. Game number two was that the European Central Bank does not give any liability or credit to European Member States – broken. Game number three was that no country is liable to the other country. – Game rule broken. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, who is surprised that worldwide confidence in the euro will decline if those countries and those responsible do not do their homework and not stand up to what they have taken and secured in contracts with each other? [[BZÖ's condolences. . The representatives of the BZÖ shall keep up-to-date tablets with the title “Failed!”]] Therefore, there is no confidence anymore, neither in the euro nor in the European Union, nor at all in the government policy of these individual states, if the currency is: Get up, hole up, cost it what it wants! And in the middle of the German Chancellors and the banking minister Pröll, who all blank, freely sign, because they know that at the end of the day everything the taxpayers have to pay and to stand for it. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, we say quite clearly here: Enough paid! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Enough payment for Pleite States and Marode countries of the European Union. Mr Bundeskanzler – I am not making the biggest accusations to you because you have never been in the private sector for a second or a day – but at the latest now, after this Council meeting, you should have actually come to the conclusion that Greece is definitely pleading. A year ago, you promised Greece €110 billion – that is, the Member States together with the European Central Bank – and now, after a year, you have to extend the deadline because Greece cannot repay the loans. Now you have to reduce interest rates, because Greece cannot meet the burden in its own country and its liabilities to its lenders. At the latest, Mr Bundeskanzler, you should understand that Greece is definitely pleading that Greece cannot be helped, that it is a barrel without soil and that there is only one interest in keeping banks alive there. It's no longer a secret. There are German, there are French banks that bought Greece's government bonds and gave Greece loans. There is only this one interest in saving the banks, and this is primarily due to the Germans and the French. Why does the Austrian taxpayer have to participate? – No one in Austria understands that we have to stand straight for banks, at billions where we ourselves have our own homework, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] On the one hand, we have the period-limitation and great new aid for Greece, and on the other hand there is the European Stability Mechanism, this permanent rescue shield, which is now being set up. Mr Bundeskanzler, I expect you to deliver to us today the facts on this European rescue shield, which is now permanently set up, basically as a European Monetary Fund. The money won't come back. Sage You realize today that these billions that you will transfer over the next few months will never come back! That's lost money. This is money used for the stability of the currency, the euro, money that taxpayers will never see again. These are cash € 2.8 billion and additional liabilities of € 17 billion. Tell us this true truth once in this clarity and do not try to clarify to us any bypass explanations that this is just a temporary support of the euro! We do not want a pact for Europe. For what you have concluded, Federal Chancellor, is free after Faust a pact with the devil! That is the reality, ladies and gentlemen, and you should also express this in this clarity. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] They degradate the citizens of Austria to castles. They're making guarantees from us. In the next few years, they will spend entire generations. As a father, how can you answer that the next generations – including your children and our children – will have to pay for decisions you are making now, today and in the next few weeks that will make the next generation’s scope extremely narrow? The next generations will no longer have such budgets as you do on the government bank today. The next generations will face questions and despair about how to finance our care. How will their pensions be designed in the future? How should the health system remain critical in the future? – These are questions of the next generations. How can we answer our children and grandchildren that there will be no more money at all? My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP, how can you answer your conscience as to what you are doing here? [[BZÖ and Abg. Dr. Königshofer.]] This Greece aid, this euro rescue, this barrel without soil is absurd when it reads in this pact that Greece makes the same resources available – loans – as Austria and as many liabilities take over. This is similar to the likeness: One naughter lends to the other naughter's garment. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this can't work! It is impossible that Greece will ever get into the situation of saving the euro if the Greeks themselves are not even able to secure their own finances and make them future-proof. For all these crimes, for all the expenses you spend so generously here, ladies and gentlemen, the taxpayer pays. That's it! That's the truth and that's the reality! You have already made provision for the reduction in family aid, with the increase in the tax on mineral oil. You have taken care of the “bank customer tax” you have introduced with the € 500 million. Finally, stop saying that with these €500 million, you'll kick the banks! This is a bank customer tax that every bank customer will pay in the future because bank handling fees are rising and, of course, interest will also rise. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: That's not true at all!]] The third point is this Euro Plus package. The Euro Plus package is not a cheap advertising gag of the ÖBB, but a really brilliant topic, ladies and gentlemen. It's not an advertising gag of any transport company. It's really brilliant. Euro Plus package means common wage policy, common tax policy. I now ask the SPÖ Commissioners and trade unionists whether they want the wage negotiations to take place in Brussels in the future, that we be told how high the minimum wage may be in Austria and what additional labour costs we will have to pay in the future. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] Mr Bundeskanzler, I expect you to give us some information about this: Does this mean that in the future wage relief is down for the Austrian workers? Does this mean, for workers, that they deserve less in the future? Does this mean that for the common tax policy, which your colleague, Mr Schieder, praises so much that we will also pay higher taxes in the future? – I’m giving it to bear in mind that we live in a “High Tax National Park”, that we’ve reached the ceiling as far as our tax and tax burden is concerned, that you’re constantly screwing it up year after year, that we’re now at 45 percent and that there’s no room left to go up. That is, we are over-indebted, in Austria the debt is rising, the economy is not growing. What grows with us is the tax burden and is the tax and tax rate, ladies and gentlemen. That is why we say: Enough paid!, in the interest of taxpayers! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The fact that this Euro-Plus package is the first step towards a European central government must finally inform you, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP. There will be a common economic policy in the future which will put us in the cold which will lead us to decisions here in Parliament in the future. This should also be said in this clarity, because a European economic government is a declared objective of this common European government policy. We don't want that! We want a Europe of sovereign states. We want to be proud of the solution competence of the Austrian Parliament. We have a lot of expertise, we have many proposals, opportunities that we want to use to secure our future ourselves. We are not going the way of the distribution of prosperity within the European Union, where the rich countries will have to make their money available to the poor countries in the future. We do not want that, ladies and gentlemen, that is the wrong way. Austria has already been a donor country, a net payer, and this has been in the European Union since its entry into force. We are currently paying € 400 million per year, and in the future this will double to € 800 million per year. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, what does that mean? – This also means that we will be in budgetary emergency situations in the coming years, and that this will again be felt by taxpayers over the next few months and years by means of a tax increase, which is already being prepared in secret in the Ministry of Finance. That is why the way in which you are going about the population is completely incomprehensible to us. For every small measure, there are government declarations, there is also a proposal for the people to vote on, for example, a military reform, but when it comes to asking entire generations to pay for it in the next few years, then you do not find it worth the effort to question the people and involve the citizens. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this is the real dilemma of this government policy. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The effects are already noticeable for taxpayers. What do you think, now, that's where these strains come from? – In the beginning, economic researchers object to the fact that the price will not be as high as 2%, 2.5%, but that each month they are overrun with new horror reports. Of course, the felt inflation is already two-digit in Austria. Anyone who drives to a pillar can find out. The spray price is hugely high. You in the Federal Government are the price driver number one, 40 percent you are responsible for this highest price. And only you, my dear ones. Ladies and gentlemen, this inflation has to be accounted for. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I find it incredibly shameless, I also say in the direction of SPÖ and cooperatives, as you are trying to clean up the budget through inflation. Inflation is a hidden tax, which is the tax of the little man. This is the family tax. This is also the tax of pensioners. You don't get around with inflation, you have to pay for the goods of daily needs, whether you want or not. And through the high level of inflation, the Minister of Finance is rehabilitating his budget because of its natural impact on VAT revenue. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Herbs.]] This, ladies and gentlemen, is, in our view, the most convenient way of rehabilitating the budget, but the most insidious and insidious way of getting rid of it. You should also say that in this clarity. [[BZÖ and Abg. Dr. Königshofer.]] In the meantime, the taxpayer pays not only over the great loans, about these liabilities that you so easily pledge and distribute, no, he also pays over the high interest rates that are now coming to him. Nowotny already says that there is an increase in interest rates, of course also higher risk increases, because the banks want to reorganise themselves; and then the inflation, which is also added. That is, the taxpayer pays for these great commitments you made on the weekend, double and triple. In the end, the taxpayer will always be left with everything to do with it. The banks remain completely spared. What do you say? If the question arises, why do the banks get so much money? What explanation do you have for this? – I would really be interested. [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: Hypo, I say!]] There is still no functioning banking supervision at European level. There is no bankruptcy right, neither in Austria nor at European level. How could it be, then, that daily businesses are in bankruptcy, insolvency that there are private bankruptcys, but in Austria and at European level no bank can go into bankruptcy and at the end of the bank director always know that the taxpayer assumes liability? How do you explain this to the Austrian population, Mr. Bundeskanzler? – You should say that at last. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] And that leads me to the credit rating agencies. Since 2008, we have been talking about the fact that we do not want American credit rating agencies to imagine what investments we have to make and how we have to evaluate them. To date, however, you have done nothing but grant great loans, give great liability, but you have not installed a European credit rating agency. Of course, both Austrian and European banks have no interest in a European credit rating agency because they order and buy their ratings in part in the USA. – This is reality. Again: Banks are focusing on politics, the banks have been taking politics, and the banks have been on the glue for many years, and that is what citizens in our country no longer understand, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Finally, take the serious path! More patriotism, more respect for Austrian taxpayers, ladies and gentlemen, are announced. This also means a better future for the next generations, without, so to speak, making them the future of the future and taking the scope for them. We wish ourselves: Priority for Austria instead of for Marode Banks and Pleiteländer.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e14747	Mr Faymann spoke in response to the question. The speaking time should not exceed 20 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e14770	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Honourable State Secretary! Honourable Members! [[Abg. Dolinschek removes from the speaker’s desk the title “Failed! ”]] You could have left the Taferl “genug! ” there still a little bit, because maybe we’ll talk about the hypo too. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Grosz puts his table on the speaker's desk.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: 1.6 million € deficit alone in the first year! This is the new management!]] [[Abg. Dr. Strutz: It's gonna be expensive!]] After the debate on the protection shield and the issue of the so-called competitive pact was discussed in the morning, I would like to join the discussion on the one hand and on the other. The question has been raised: Have we committed ourselves to further criteria or should we commit ourselves in the context of a stronger coordination at European level on further criteria, in addition to the debt ratio and the re-indebtedness? Can one really measure whether a country pursues long-term and sustainable policies by using only the debt ratio or the re-indebtedness? Is there not enough to determine the competitiveness of a country, far more criteria that decide whether a person can pay his debts, how many debts he actually takes up, what the structure of debt looks like, so what they are for? Is that not a little more diverse than these two factors? In the course of this discussion, how a stronger coordination could take place, one has to of course become aware of the factors that play a role. We have introduced that research, development, education, training and social criteria play an important role in the competitiveness of a country, in its competition. However, it is also to be discussed about competitiveness, i.e. unit labour costs, the development of wages compared to productivity, technological progress, the issue of the industrial location in international location competition and much more. Therefore, it does not harm if the Competition Pact contains criteria that go beyond the known two criteria, debt ratio and re-indebtedness. But if someone believed that he could interfere in the autonomous negotiations of the collective partners, that would be prevented by us. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Bookbooker: That's what we're looking at!]] - Yes, you can look at that. After I have already mentioned the issue of the ÖGB President by Mr Stadler today, I would like to tell you the order of what is actually in it – I quote here the OTS of the ÖGB: “We are glad to hear the clear words of Chancellor Werner Faymannin Brussels on wage policy,” says ÖGB President Erich Foglar. “Here you see, have you forgotten to quote him? [[Abg. May. Stadler: Please, a letter to the “Krone ”!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Worm.]] [[Call the BZÖ:... from the Rudas!]] Further: “The Federal Chancellor has confirmed that Austria has a good system with the collective treaty negotiations of the social partners” – that is very correct – and he considers it to be a back cover, as “the desired back cover by Federal Chancellor Werner Faymann”. - Look! [[Abg. May. Stadler: The herbs will have written this!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Markowitz.]] Therefore, it has not been decided to intervene in wage negotiations. Austria has played an exemplary role. [[Abg. Bookers: You should look ahead a little bit more!]] We can be proud of what has really brought our country further, in contrast to so many urgent proposals, namely social peace, social partnership and cooperation between stakeholders. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] [[Between call of the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] So if the promotion of competitiveness is defined and a number of reviews, considerations, comparisons are made here, then we have no reason to shy the comparison, even if it turns out once in a factor that someone else is better than we are. This will hardly be the case in the case of low unemployment, but may well be the case with other criteria. Then it does not harm him to carry out an analysis in order to initiate possible actions to improve comparison. Comparing criteria other than re-indebtedness is a right way of better coordination for the future. I come to the answers to the questions. Question 1: The conclusions of the European Council are, of course, available to you immediately after their adoption, because they have been forwarded immediately. Prior to this, the EU's Main Committee is discussing the issues previously planned as conclusions. I am speaking and replying, usually with either the Minister of Finance, this time with the Secretary of State, or with the Foreign Minister. It is true that in the Competition Pact, Members of the European Parliament Van der Bellen rightly objected to the fact that the discussion here did not take place in the main committee. [[Abg. Bucher: Yes, that we finally get a government statement!]] This is something that can also be planned in the future, because I am also interested in a complete discussion process, especially with those – with whom I also thank – who understand it constructively. Constructive does not mean to share everything, to support everything and not to recognize the critical points, but constructive is more than to add some Polish headlines in which you represent some horror scenarios that ultimately lead to nothing. I'm also with the horror scenarios. Of course, if you give someone a loan, there may be difficulties in repayment. This has rightly emphasized this morning, Mr Van der Bellen. Of course, it is also true that a shield, if it is not needed, saves all the troubles – that is also true. But we did not face the situation in this economic crisis: Let's not do anything so that we don't risk anything, but before the situation: How do we prevent effects such as in the 1930s, when mass unemployment and mass poverty have been caused by non-poverty. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bucher.]] [[Abg. Strache: They produce a mass unemployment of the Austrians!]] And I'm proud that we didn't let your headlines stop us from doing something and leading the country through the crisis. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Questions 2 to 4: As already mentioned, therefore, no intervention in wage negotiations is planned. We have also decided to do so. Member States have, as you said, Mr Bucher, with what they have in their own country in terms of resources, processes and know-how to improve competitiveness. That's not about some hand that's directed from somewhere suddenly losing us something, someone's talking to us or someone's deciding something instead of our solutions. We will only be placed on the European level in terms of solutions, whether social systems, health systems or pension systems, as well as in terms of how good or bad they are. That doesn't hurt. Austria has often shown that it is a right way and where something is worthy of improvement, such as in our education system, we will also speak and answer if someone puts us to the test for these criteria. The no-bail-out clause has not been broken. The Treaty also provides for assistance under Article 122 in times of crisis for euro area countries. [[Abg. Bucher: In the case of natural disasters!]] [[Abg. May. Stefan:... permanent crisis!]] That's exactly what we did. The question was: How can we prevent speculation, which cannot be limited to certain vintages, from taking place outside of times of crisis with a protective shield, so that speculation, when it occurs, can also be resisted, for example, by means of a protective shield. That is why I think it is right to set up this shield, even though I would prefer if there were no problems in the European Union at all and I could only tell you how things are getting better and better. [[Abg. May. Stefan: Everyone knows he can do what he wants!]] No, there are a number of differences, of problems, of conflicts, of conflicts of interest with banks – I am very close to many to express the criticisms – and also to those who address them a little better in these conflict situations. But that doesn't mean putting the head in the sand and being against everything, participating in nothing more, pretending not to be there. We are an active part of the European Union, and I understand the criticism, that 'yes, but' as an active contribution. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Questions 5 and 6: Because of this deepest economic crisis, we have, of course, launched a series of measures in order to stabilise the euro since the 1930s. I have not heard anything about a scenario in the previous debate, which would actually be if we did not help any country in difficulty, leaving it entirely to speculation as it goes on there. It is not really the only sufferer who is a bank director, but then, of course, for Greece, for Ireland or for other countries, that, if they are no longer able to raise funds, they are no longer able to comply with their services in the public sector. What does this mean for the pay of teachers, for schools? What does this mean for the payment of the health system? What does this mean for combating poverty? What does that mean in all these countries? – It is not true that if you were isolated by not helping someone, you would only meet the banks. It's quite different. One would meet people in this common Europe, which is also a peace project. We are also responsible for working on solutions where people everywhere are equally valuable and where it is very likely to prevent and prevent such negative effects. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP. - Abg. Hagen holds up a table with the title “Paid to Geneug! ”]] On question 7 – it deals with administrative reform –: It is true that the reduction of double-liability and unnecessary bureaucracy means better efficiency, whether it be the care fund, or the stability agreements reached with the federal states, whether it be other measures that the government is constantly taking – double-liability are to be eliminated. Yeah, sometimes it's too slow. Some times the contradictions and contradictions in the country are such that I also want more strength, more support for something. It is not mutual polemics and indifference that are needed, but rather that one understands that one does not regard reforms as a self-interest, but that the price one gets for reforms is that one can maintain quality with less money and therefore force other important things in the country. 7 billion €, which will then remain with the Minister of Finance, are totally false expectations. 7 billion € Efficiency increase that you can accomplish tasks in time by becoming more efficient is a correct expectation in connection with the administrative reform. [[Abg. Bookbooker: Start one!]] On questions 8 and 9 – whether we get our money again –: I have already said a lot about this, but I do not want to abstain from the figures: Austrian contributions to the stabilisation of the eurozone: Greece: € 2.3 billion, with bilateral loans; EFSF €12.2 billion; Euro Guarantees: increase to € 25 billion; ESM: €2.2 billion Investment in capital 2013 to 2017, per year is €445 million; further call capital and guarantees amounting to €17.3 billion. On the question of 10 – whether the wrong ones pay for the crisis –: Unfortunately, it is true that in our economic system worldwide the controls, the framework conditions are not strong enough, that the debtors always pay in full – that would be much better for me too. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Deputies Tamandel and Dr. Stummvoll.]] In fact, our task is also to oppose the neoliberals in the supervision of banking, financial markets, withdrawn financial products, including in the course of intervention, even in certain prohibitions, under more stringently defined framework conditions, who say that the market is to regulate everything and we should be happy if we are there or, if it goes wrong, that we are allowed to pay. Yes, this is a global contradiction, which is also a contradiction in the European Union, and I am proud that we have a decision by all parties in Parliament, not just one or two parties, such as a financial transaction tax, for greater control of the financial sector in order to achieve this objective. [[Abg. Grosz: We'll take you by the word!]] There should be no one who believes that a business, a risk – if it goes well, one puts the profit in the pocket if it goes wrong, one asks the taxpayer – that this is something we find ourselves with. [[Abg. Bucher: This is the living reality of this federal government!]] We Austrians don't get along with this. We are also active at European level, both on issues against speculation, on stronger frameworks, on tighter controls, and on additional revenue such as financial transaction tax. I would also like to submit this to you in writing in response to a question, so that you can see what proposals I make at the European Council, for example. But I also say this for all the other members of the government, where they represent Austria in Europe, is a common consensus. But it is also, I am convinced, a question of fairness and social justice. Questions 11 and 12 – Investment instead of using the money for the ESM –: Yes, it is true that a number of issues of stability, such as research and infrastructure, have also been included, not only within the framework of the Lisbon Agenda, but also in this competitive pact and in this new discussion, how we can achieve greater coordination in Europe. This is also true, because this also leads to increased stability. Fighting corruption and the economy of shadows is part of that. One has nothing of a tax that is introduced somewhere if it actually pays only a small percentage. These are a number of very hard, important, open questions, about which you can polemize, because you can copy the negative examples from any press mirrors and then polemise as long as the day is, or you set yourself this task and try to find solutions together at European level. We Austrians contribute to this! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] On questions 13 and 14 – as is Austria’s case with the stability criteria –: You know that, in particular with regard to unemployment, we are also often referred to as a model for our employment policy solutions. But also in terms of economic growth and many other factors, such as export, there are many countries that are very far away from what we have to show together in Austria. [[Abg. Street:... from Triple-A to B!]] The deficit criterion of 3 percent in 2013, the government debt ratio and the increase, a direct consequence of the crisis, will, I assume, stabilize and fall again in the medium term, which will also prove these criteria that we are on the right track. Question 15: As I have explained several times now, all these reviews – whether pensions or wages – are designed to compare, to see how efficient it is, for example, the increase in the actual retirement age, as we are doing, as our Social Minister has presented his plans here, is as compared to measures taken in other countries. I mean, the sentence: We live in Austria and not elsewhere!, is not one of the intellectual highlights of the discussions in this House. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] It is no shame at all, in the good as in the bad, to compare with solutions elsewhere in Europe, which are being met elsewhere in the world. By this comparison you can either be sure that you do it properly, or you can be self-critical once and see that someone else has a better regulation. On question 16, on the role of the ECB and the banks Yes, the European Central Bank is independent on monetary policy issues, pursuing the objective of a low and stable inflation rate. [[Abg. Bucher: What about the tax reform? There's something you've missed!]] There is no link between the monetary policy of the European Central Bank and the direct design of the ESM. On the question 17, hours: Member States have committed themselves to paying the capital contribution in a contractual manner. Questions 18 and 19 – Implementation of the Transparency Directive and Banking Insolvency Law in Austria –: Yes, this is the first time in the Transparency Directive, but also in the case of those who will have to make contributions at European level in the event of insolvency, the share of private individuals has been specified in addition. The implementation of a banking insolvency right is also an important element in the regulation of financial markets and is currently in work. There is no contradiction in any of these questions, for example, in our statements that we both made – because you have asked. [[Abg. Bucher: Do you not trust the answer, Mr. Bundeskanzler?]] Question 20: Inflation increase of 3 percent in February compared to February 2010. – Mainly responsible are, as you know, price increases in fuel and heating oil. [[Abg. Strache: There will be one question for the other!]] [[Abg. Bucher: What about the tax reform you promised?]] Yes, inflation is not to be combated by simply polishing over the shield, but that is a question that has to do with fuel prices, speculation on fuels, speculation on food. [[Abg. Strache: Is the OMC the speculant now? The OMC speculates now!]] And it is only quite true that one cannot say that creativity in one's own country is enough to prevent, for example, international speculation. Creativity in one's own country is sufficient to be active in Europe and internationally against speculation and to contribute to the development of international solutions. [[Abg. Booker: Yes, but you do!]] That is, especially when it comes to speculation, fuel prices, but also food, an example of the fact that it is the wrong way to get solutions in one's own country. Questions 21 and 22 – specifically about petrol prices – are: The request addresses the Luxembourg model in particular. We have compared this with the monitoring that the Minister of Economic Affairs has and has done with us, and we have seen what has been achieved in Luxembourg in comparison to that. If you calculate net petrol prices in comparison, we'll be better. If you calculate the price of petrol in the European section, we are also better. Nevertheless: If there are other possibilities to knock the mineral oil companies on their fingers, that they do not pass everything on when prices rise, and keep everything when prices drop, I am very much for that. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Minister of Finance!]] [[Abg. Grosz: Mineral oil tax!]] But you just wrote us a Luxembourg model, as if it were the stone of the sage. This is not what you see when you make the effort to calculate and compare the prices. I therefore come to the question of 23 which is aimed at financial transaction taxation, i.e. those proposals which I made in the last European Council, but above all at the essential questions of nuclear technology, which now plays no role in the protection debate, but probably plays a special role worldwide. I would like to send you the answer in writing, because it is understandable that this is not possible in the context of the time budget. Question 24: No one can calculate it – and that would be completely missing! – what the measures – the shield – we set, look like in 10 or 15 years and what it has cost/estimated. [[Abg. Bucher: Why is this missing?]] But I'm convinced of one thing: Those who come with the milk-maid bill and say: The shield costs something, yes, that's totally lost money, nothing to do would be so cheap, nothing to do would be the great solution!, lie to us. [[Abg. Say no one! The right solution is needed! Those weak economies relieve!]] I am convinced that nothing to do is irresponsible to children and grandchildren. Because you said that: Yes, I too am the father of two children, and I do not want to tell my children that in a difficult situation, in an economic crisis, in a combination of a peaceful Europe, my mission was not to do anything. That is why I am in favour of this shield and I am also in favour of the other conflicts with all the advantages and disadvantages.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e15308	We are now going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 10 minutes. Each club has a total speaking time of 25 minutes. First of all, Mr Magistrate. Stadler. I'll set the clock to 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e15335	Madam President. High house! Federal Chancellor! [[The speaker puts on the speaker’s desk a titled “Faithful! ” on the speaker’s desk.]] [[Abg. Silhavy: This is a little bit overproduction!]] [[Call the BZÖ: This is for the ÖVP!]] I promise you, we will be discussing the Hypo Carinthia – in view of today's known balance sheet losses of €1.6 billion under red and black leadership. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: How much?]] [[Call at ÖVP: Old loads!]] - Old loads, Jessas! [[Call: This is your heritage]] [[Abg. Street: Joseph and Werner!]] In 2009: €1.5 billion! Meanwhile, it is more than €3 billion in two years. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Who owns the bank? Don't look good!]] We'll talk about it in due course. The time comes, I'm sure. In the debate on this euro-saving screen, a little bit has been noticed that you would like to talk about everything possible. In the main committee, Mrs Plassnik and also the SPÖ originally wanted to talk only about Libya and Yemen. It was only when I asked the Chancellor if he had been asked before before they shot the rockets on Libya, and he denied that, that was the opinion: It is actually not that good to talk about a subject on which we are not even asked internationally! Let us talk about the topic that really concerns Austrian taxpayers: additional €2.2 billion on the table of the House in Brussels and additional € 17.3 billion on further guarantees! We need to talk about it, not Libya and Yemen, where we have nothing to say, Mr Bundeskanzler, and not the hypo, we will, as I have said, discuss it extra at some time – as I mean, very much to the indifference of the two coalition parties. You know, Mr Schüssel is right. [[Abg. Strache: But we must not forget the municipal credit!]] – We will talk more about these too! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Who is in the Supervisory Board in Hypo?]] Mr Schüssel is right: First of all, he is right when he criticises today that no single EIA representative is on the government bank. The State Secretary from the Ministry of Finance is not here either. The ÖVP pretends as if it had nothing to do with this rescue shield, it is trying to make it a SPÖ topic. In reality, however, the Minister of Finance and the Chief Responsible of the ÖVP is the one who has put this malaise into us. [[Abg. Bucher: This is an unfair partner!]] The second – I quote again Wolfgang Schüssel –: Yes, it is right that one should have thought about whether it would not have been a long-term or even short-term cheaper, Mr Bundeskanzler, a few banks that have speculated in Greece at the taxpayer's expense, some German banks, French banks and, in the Irish case, even British banks, which are not even in the euro area, to let the sector understand that the taxpayer does not at the end have to bathe out the entire malaise and pay the soup that is served here, ladies and gentlemen! [[BZÖ and Abg. Bitch.]] [[Abg. Bucher: Calculated risk!]] It would have been cheaper to make it clear to the banking sector that, without a debt reduction for the Greeks, there is no willingness for the Greeks to receive German, French and, in the Irish case, English banks. This has been the wrong signal, and we have told you this here – not only us, but also Mr Van der Bellen, who is so pleased to quote from you; I am coming to talk about why you are doing this – that this strategy was a wrong one. Ladies and gentlemen, you have set the wrong signal, and this signal is expensive, sinfully expensive! I'll tell you: Enough paid! That's the point! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Booker: This is fatal!]] The Austrians, but also the Germans and all the other EU citizens, who have to contribute constantly with their performance to the ability to direct the bank directors with superdividing, with supergagens, have now completely removed their noses. [[Abg. Street: Mr. Treichl from the First Bank!]] The banks still pay special bonuses! In Germany we have seen it: Not Mrs Merkel creates Mr Ackermann, but Mr Ackermann creates Mrs Merkel. In Austria, not Mr Pröll is the one who says: The primacy of politics applies, but Mr Konrad creates Mr Pröll! It has just been set the wrong signal. Ladies and gentlemen – I am really addressing social democracy first and foremost – you should therefore listen to your union officials! Mr Bundeskanzler, by the way, you have not fully quoted the President-in-Office of the Union. ==References====External links== March 2011, Mr Foglar said the following – I really have to read it out, Federal Chancellor; it is really good what Foglar writes –: [[Abg. Bucher: After he inquired!]] ‘Foglar: EU pressure leads to deadlocks”. – Not Stadler, but Foglar! “ Against this background, Foglar repeats his criticism of the current orientation of EU policy.” – This is also your policy, Mr. Federal Chancellor! - That's my interlacing. Continued in the quote: “Representatives of the European Commission would have put pressure on the Commission to reduce minimum wages and pensions and to make labour markets more flexible at the expense of workers. [...] the trend towards EU policy” goes “in the wrong direction.” Literally quoted, between quotation marks is: "No competition is in itself to be used if it benefits all in Europe. Competition, however, which provides for low wages, low social standards, protected social systems and reduced labour rights, is fundamental and leads Europe into the dead end. The current understanding of competition, based only on wages and unit labour costs, is one-eye and does not create growth in Europe. And the cause of the crisis is still left out,” Foglar criticises." Ah, look here! You have just explained to the House how you take the cause of the crisis on the bedside. You don't do anything at all! If you don't believe it, at least believe it to your comrade Foglar! You did not understand that, ladies and gentlemen, what the banking sector is supposed to contribute to must ultimately pay again to bank customers. None of these pay themselves! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Do you know why? – Because there is no liability right for bank directors and for speculators where you can take advantage of your private property. Once the private property of these rulers is tapped, that would be the starting point! It is only then that once one realizes that one has to pay and pay the invoice with one's own capital for what one has done and takes into account the taxpayers, that the desire to evade the taxpayer will become significantly lower. That is the point, ladies and gentlemen, which you have not observed. [[BZÖ and Abg. Bitch.]] That's why I was a little surprised – also about your choice of words. Mr. Federal Chancellor, in the morning you said: Harmonization of social standards! Now in the afternoon it was only the evaluation of social standards. So, as it is, Mr Foglar's citation is already working. I do not know if Mr Foglar has reported himself to you, but I just like to quote him, because it obviously leads to you, the longer the discussion takes, the more willing it is to move on to our position. This is at least once a good trend; it should be recognized once. The original documents adopted with your vote, Mr Bundeskanzler, are now clear. This is what Mr Auer said in the morning: One should, as it were, be oriented towards the trading partner countries. He also called one: China! - Well, that's wonderful! Good luck with the payroll accounts, ladies and gentlemen, if we are to conform to the Chinese social standards! This is the Austrian People's Party that is imagining this! No, not with us! Not with us, Mr Auer. Not with us with absolute certainty. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Now to the shawls towards Van der Bellen – where is he, Mr Van der Bellen? Here he is constantly praised and brushed – in the hope that this will affect the greens. I'll tell you what the background is. [[Call BZÖ and ÖVP: In the Town Hall!]] - Probably, yes. Well, he's not here. I don't miss him, but he's not here. Let's hold this for the record. Ladies and gentlemen! The reason for these shawls is that you need a two-thirds majority in one point, namely the amendment of the Lisbon Treaty, which you now want to do with or without a referendum. You know, the referendum is already clear. I am already telling you the result: 80 percent are now against this Lisbon Treaty. 90 percent have no more joy with what you put on the table out there, and are against this constant worship and constant meddling. That is why I am telling you that you will not be able to pick up this two-thirds requirement from us, I assume, neither with the liberals. The question of whether you can get it from the Greens is, I think, the reason for these shawls. I'm just looking at that. [[Abg. Bucher: There you have to lobby well!]] But one thing is certain – I say that first and foremost in the direction of ÖVP –: All those who at the time claimed that there was no need for any change in the Lisbon Treaty, it was all in conformity with the law – you have also repeated this today, Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, if you do not allow your coalition partner to do so, it is not always done what you want! –, be said: The fact is that the current decision proves that this was, of course, illegal at the time, that it was against the contract that the No-Bail-Out clause was violated, that, of course, the Lisbon Treaty had to be changed, and that, of course, you need a two-thirds majority to do so. I say it again: With absolute certainty, you will not be delivered from us, Federal Chancellor! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I ask you and ask you to start the discussion on a point and not to continue to refuse to think about whether Europe needs to be built differently, not only at different speeds, but also with regard to the monetary zone and with different zone classifications. This is not evil against any southern country – that is polemics; by the way, by the way, it is also dubiously stupid – but it is a command of reason to charge the economic strength of these national economies and then to provide different currency zones. Because we already have two monetary zones. We have the currency zone of the euro area, and we have the currency zone of the non-euro area. And they don't feel so bad at all. Have you ever heard that the British want to enter the euro now? - No one wants to go in right now. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] You need to think about it and do not continue to deny the discussion that you will have to discuss different zones in the future in order to stabilise the euro. I'm sure you won't be spared this discussion.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e15632	Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Cap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e15653	Madam President. Mr Stadler! The discussions on how Europe can or should perhaps be built something else have long since existed, not only in politics, but also in science. The discussions are about the different monetary zones. This is a debate that is taking place. I'm in favour of having a serious discussion about this too. I'm not here to say the state is the ideal state. Our task is certainly to think about where we can or need to change structurally. But what amazes me so much in the whole debate is in the final effect: We have a special economic system here. We do not need to find ourselves surprised every time here, pretending that this economic system is so easily planned. In the speech of Mr Bucher, I have heard almost a preacher of hopelessness between his almost already apocalyptic tones that he had. Every time you think: And afterwards we all drive by bus to the Danube Channel and jump in! I mean, it doesn't make any sense to debate that way. [[Abg. Grosz: When I look at government work...!]] [[Abg. Strache: But this feeling... with the population, Mr. Klubobmann!]] In this context, I think it would be useful not to insinuate scope for action both in politics and in relation to an economic system that is resistant to the scope of action in this way. Once it has been tried historically. That was in the Communist plan economy. That's a clear failure. They didn't have any room for action either. They have planned the scope of action. It didn't exist either. I think we should be half-serious about this, including in terms of political power. I mean, in some of my previous speakers from the BZÖ and the FPÖ, this is always the case: It's all clear anyway. It's all on the table in the EU. Everyone's just waiting for us to say, Attention, ready, let's go, best from Austria, and then everyone runs in the same direction. These are the stencils of your speeches. They're pointless. There's no one waiting for a whistle from any capital. The maximum number of capitals is the same as that of the capitals. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Who is hopeless?]] There are different interest structures there: The interest structures of the financial markets, the London City, who want to continue to stay with the tax havens, want to continue to tolerate tax evasion, continue to accept speculation. [[Abg. Strache: Developed from Marxist to Turbo Capitalists!]] – This has nothing to do with Marxism for a long time! [[Abg. Strache: Today you are the Turbo Capitalist!]] Everyone rightly says: This is a misdevelopment of this economic system, which is directed against workers, against entrepreneurs, against this system and which has destructive forces. It is against this that I believe we should be targeted and planned. But there is a need for a reasonable debate. [[Abg. Bucher: What do you say to the workers with the politics you operate? What do you say to people?]] Wearing each time She's got a flag in front of her where it's on it: I'm from the private sector! - Well, great! But what does that help us if you don't let this knowledge flow in here? - That's ridiculous. They make themselves here and say: Well, hello, why isn't this planned and implemented, and not that, not that? – Because there are interest groups there! Because this is an economic system that is massively opposed to these rules. I would also be in favour of having more rules. [[Abg. Booker: Who makes the laws? Who will create the conditions?]] If we are for more rules, yell up and say: Too much state! You once objected to your speech and said: 500 million € have to pay the banks, this goes to the customers! And then you said, What do the banks pay? [[Abg. Bucher: Yes, of course! Have you ever heard of calculation?]] If you represent the thesis that all the banks pay the customers, then that is an expression of helplessness and hopelessness. That is why I said that you are the preacher of hopelessness, because at the end of your speech, even I have received slight depression. And that's very hard on me, because I've been here for a long time, and I'm very resistant. That doesn't make any sense. That is why I say to you: We must be able to say that in peace. [[Abg. May. Stadler: But I can recommend a few good doctors there!]] That is why I would like to tell you the following. The next point is – I can weaken it –: It is also possible to hear from these speeches the question of when the common European economic government finally comes. That is where wages are then prescribed, the budgets are strictly prescribed. [[Abg. Bucher: Yes! That's what you've taken! It's inside!]] We have resisted it. He just explained that. But what you, that is to say, those who are constantly saying that they want to demand more Austrian sovereignty, all the time – even to do away with the debt situation of individual Member States – is in the final effect: I really want a common economic government! That's where the whole theater stops, and we'd better take care of it! - Great. [[Abg. Bucher: Who says that?]] – You, for example, you, the market economyr, are really saying that! Yes, even in the morning, we heard from the two opposition speakers that this is almost the Quintessence. If you speak against logic, say it right away. We must also take account of the logic of the interpretations, namely what comes out at the end of these remarks. I'm sorry, but it is. This has to be said here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Grosz: You hear bad already! That's because you've been sitting in the house for 40, 50 years!]] [[Abg. Bucher: Now I have to worry seriously about your health condition! That's incredible!]] They ignore what is really progressive, that is, that has now been achieved first – Professor Van der Bellen has said, it is also quoted in the “Berliner Zeitung” and is also officially in the documents –: Consensuality in getting these funds – very important! –, participation of private creditors – very important! Further efforts will be made to find solutions to credit rating agencies and financial market arrangements. That, I think, is once at the root of this evil measures that must be put in place and for which one has to fight. [[Abg. It's all hot air, Mr. Klubobmann! All hot air!]] A financial transaction tax will not exist from today to tomorrow, but one must fight for it. But I would like to have a national shoulder closure for this. [[Abg. Bucher: Shoulder to Shoulder – End with funny!]] For this, I think it would be better if all five parties here held together instead of developing any imagination images of apocalyptic provenance that would not help anyone. [[Abg. Bucher: Joint Economic Government! Great!]] And most importantly, this stability, which is signalled through this single currency, is the chance that these countries will have the opportunity to finance themselves through the financial markets, the chance that debt reduction will be carried out here, the chance that there will be the long-standing regulations here in order to counteract the enormity of this economic system, without more state and all that you want to push us into the shoes. [[Abg. Bucher: And what does that cost the taxpayer?]] Costs, yes, but you have to calculate what it is that we are in this currency zone, what we benefit as an export-oriented country! You don't care about it. [[Abg. Booker: Where are you taking the money?]] "Serious debate" means: What is the benefit? The benefit outweighs. What's to keep the benefits going? That's also cost. It's as simple as that, but you're against it. They just make themselves here and think: I am a biterl an apocalyptic, so I get better with individual target groups in the population. [[Abg. Bookbook: Let’s see what comes out of Greece and Portugal! Will be very exciting!]] Fearing isn't a solution yet. The solution is to offer solutions. That is what we are trying to do, and we are finally trying to bring it in here. And if it really is important to control debt and correct budget deficits, then social justice, social compensation, must also be asked: Who are the great profiters? so that they are also asked to check out – this starts now – and that will not be turned on those who cannot defend themselves. [[Abg. Booker: But to those you throw the money in the throat! You're the turbocapitalist! That's what the Austrians are supposed to pay for!]] I would suggest that this would be a sensible debate. Otherwise, we'll talk to each other by. It would be a shame, because I know you privately, Mr Bucher, and I know that you are very well able to discuss it privately with you. But you're hardly in here, jump around and become an apocalyptic, and I'm going to be sad after such a talk. And that's probably not the goal.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e15979	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Schüssel. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e16000	High house! Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all: On one point, the previous speakers are already right. It would, I believe, be very reasonable to be available to the House after such an important Council – and it was not a normal European Council – with a statement. [[Abg. Bookbooker: Typical follow-up critique!]] First of all, we would have saved the current hour and the urgent one, and it would have been, I believe, very reasonable, especially since we – and it was pointed out – still need at least one opposition party so that we can decide on Article 136 by a two-thirds majority. So, we don't come around to talk to the House in detail about this subject. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] An argument which is very dangerous has come from Mr Stadler: We would have decided, practically unlawfully or unconstitutionally, this former rescue shield, the transitional rescue shield. That's not right. Article 122 explicitly states – no, not illegal to international law; I refer to the EU Treaty – that Article 122 clearly states: [[Abg. May. Stadler: International illegal, not unconstitutional!]] ‘If a Member State is due to... exceptional events... or to serious difficulties’ – yes, yes, but it is not a natural disaster; but serious difficulties are – ‘threat, so the Council... may decide to... [[Abg. Bookbooker: Natural disasters!]] [[Abg. Bucher: Yes, but there is nothing in it that he pleads!]] Member States shall, under certain conditions, provide financial assistance....’. This clearly says that it was right and also permissible to make a temporary rescue shield, but it is also clear that you cannot make a permanent rescue shield due to this story. That is why we need Article 136, and I hope that the opposition will not close. [[Abg. May. Stadler: What does article 125 say?]] The new rescue shield, the European Stability Mechanism, will have a total of 700 billion volumes, i.e. 500 billion euros. And that is strongly criticized. I personally consider this to be a necessary and absolutely right step, although in the request and also in many public discussions – hundreds of scientists have expressed themselves on this issue – there have been quite legitimate arguments and also critical comments that need to be addressed, of course. The first argument, the first criticism, was that four attempts were needed to get to this permanent rescue screen at all. And that's right. First we started with the Greeks, purely bilateral: 80 billion direct aid. Then came the dramatic European Council on 9 and 10. In May 2010, a temporary rescue screen of €440 billion was decided. This is not enough because the weak countries concerned cannot guarantee such a sum in a credible way. And then we said in the fourth run, three years are too little, you need a permanent rescue shield, you need something like a European Monetary Fund. [[Abg. Bucher: You knew that from the beginning!]] – By the way, what Wolfgang Schäuble suggested from the beginning – I say very clearly – and he was right with that. [[Abg. Booker: This is nothing new!]] Therefore: Now we are slowly moving in the right direction, and I also find it absolutely correct that we are now talking about lengthenings. No one can expect Greece or the Portuguese or anyone in three years to reduce the debt in such a sustainable way. Realistic interest rates – six percent is simply too high – are needed to involve the private sector. Therefore, from 2013, there will be the so-called Collective Action Clause, which will enable a private investor to come to the handcushion, as it were. Only, of course, is there another weakness in it, because it must be negotiated at all, how this private sector participation will take place under what conditions. So, in itself, a real, necessary big step, but there are quite a few critical comments that one must deal with especially for the future. The lifeguard isn't the same. It only comes from mid-2013, is built up in steps, and in full volume we only have it in 2018. That is, we now have 2011, and in 2018 it will fully grasp, with 80 billion paid-in capital and thus the triple-A rating, which ultimately ensures that the ESM as a European Monetary Fund can really work. [[Abg. Bucher: But he's got other worries!]] Thank God, I say – and I am also very grateful to the European Parliamentarians who, at the very last moment, have accused it – that this is not only intergovernmental, between governments, but that the Commission and the European Central Bank are involved, which I think is very important. To me, honestly, there are too many intergovernmental things inside anyway, and that is political cow trafficking. That's clear. That's what we've experienced, myself. In 2004 and 2005, when the major countries – Germany, France – failed to comply with the Stability Pact, no one thought of sanctions and penalties. They said something like this. Looks like that's gonna work. And with that, we're where we are now. I would therefore like to see more Community method, so I would like more automatic sanctions, because in the end only such a truly credible Stability Pact can be produced. There are some positive tightenings inside, you have to recognize that. But, for example, the reverse qualified majority will be the last step when it comes to penalties. Previously, in the first step, it would be important to facilitate the reversing qualified majority to go into sanctions against a state that is not conscious of it. To the criticism that has come from some of the opposition speakers here, there is almost no coordination of economic policy. - Well, you have to let that break on the tongue. How do we want it? [[Abg. Bucher: Coordination is something else!]] Yeah, but it's about coordination. [[Abg. Bucher: Central government is one, coordination the other!]] The countries concerned, the weak countries, had the possibility of external depreciation earlier than they did not belong to the euro, now they do not have this possibility. Therefore Helmut Kramer, former head of WIFO, rightly says that there must be internal depreciations. And that doesn't mean: lower wages, of course, that can mean above all: better competitiveness and higher productivity. By the way: This is also the secret of the Austrian economic miracle in recent years, because before we went to the euro, we had a strong connection of schilling to the D-Mark. And the social partners, the trade unionists and the economic representatives, have known very well, that is, if we want to improve, that we cannot have higher wages than the Germans and have to have higher productivity. And so today we are in a situation where we have higher wages and higher productivity than even the Federal Republic of Germany. And around these inner adjustments, the weaker countries will not come around. What are the alternatives? You should also address this openly. What would theoretical alternatives be in such a situation? .I've been mis-quoted there. You said I recommended letting the countries go bankrupt. Don't do that! I said that the alternative would be that, if Austria were to be taken from the Mediterranean countries, it would have had more than €40 billion outside, and, of course, we would have had to save these banks because, in the end, there would be money from millions of savers and investors inside. Interestingly, through this time-purchasing, it was not at first, the Austrian banks react very well. We had 42 billion outsiders – today we are already below 30 billion. And that will go on. Therefore: It is very reasonable to go such a quiet way. Switzerland was mentioned as an example. Good. However, I can also mention that a few days ago, the Swiss National Bank presented its balance sheet from the previous year. You know what's in there? – €15 billion loss, because the Swiss National Bank had to intervene with all means to limit the high flight of the Swiss franc; [[Abg. Jakob Auer: Look here!]] Bracket: Did not use anything anyway. At the peak they even had 120 billion € in their books. You have an annual loss of €15 billion with a huge political discussion. Now consider what would be, we would still have the schilling. – That was said today, but strache is no longer in the hall. – Then we would be in exactly the same situation as Switzerland or the Germans with the D-Mark or the Dutch. It would, of course, be a rapid increase in our currency, with dramatic consequences for our exports and for our jobs. So, in total, it is a big, meaningful and correct step, which was properly supported by the Federal Chancellor, because the basic systems and basic data are right for the Eurozone. We have a growth rate of about 2% in the eurozone last year, this year and next year. The euro as a whole is much higher than in the introduction – we are over 1.40 – and we have a balance in the balance of payments. We do not contribute to the Global Imbalance. The deficit in the euro area is half as high as that of the Americans at 4.5 percent. If I were an investor, I'd worry more about the dollar than about the euro. That's why we're talking about this package!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e16204	Mr Magistrate has the power to make an actual correction. Stadler to speak. – Ladies and gentlemen, you know the GOG provisions. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e16228	Madam President. The colleague, Mr Schüssel, has just got the way. 122 para. 2 of the Lisbon Treaty and did not quote part of that provision. I therefore quote completely – it is an actual correction –: [[Abg. Krainer: This is not an actual correction!]] [[Abg. Krainer: No!]] ‘If a Member State is seriously affected by natural disasters or exceptional events,’ – and now it is indeed corrective – ‘who withdraw from its control, are seriously affected by difficulties or are seriously threatened by serious difficulties, the Council may, on a proposal from the Commission, decide to grant the Member State concerned financial assistance under certain conditions.’ [[Abg. Krainer: That's not an actual correction, that's a supplement! It's already done!]] It is correctly quoted that “the ones withdrawing from his control. ” – The budgetary policy and the Greek debt policy have never been deprived of the control of the Greeks!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e16298	I'll let this go through now. Mr Hübner is next spoken. 6 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e16330	Ladies and gentlemen! Dear colleague Stadler, quite clearly: I have not yet read or heard that there has been any doubt that the aid package, which has been tied to Greece, has at least passed a breach of the Treaty. I have never heard of the fact that this clause, which has been used here by my colleague, is tailored to budgetary difficulties due to a permanent debt policy or is also applicable. So I don't know anyone to whom this occurred. This is very creative of you, I must say, colleague, but it is not all that is creative, sensible and right. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Otherwise, by the way, the problem would not exist in Germany, which is now causing us to change the contract if we do not succeed in preventing it. But now to the general debate. – Mr Cap has explained very detailedly that we would discuss everything anyway, that we would discuss new projects to change the Eurozone, and so on. Yes, “man” already, but the government and SPÖ and ÖVP do not. Here every form of discussion is strangled. Here you can only hear five or six general arguments: It must be so, it will be so, it has to be so, and whoever is opposed to it is against Austria, it is for insulating Austria, and it has an insanity policy or it leads us to the abyss or it makes me depressive and such things. Let's go through this. There are different arguments for this. There is the German Finance Minister Schäuble, quoted by Mr Schüssel. He said quite openly several times: I am in favour of this because the euro is our identity, and everything that could somehow change the euro must be prevented. Europe, Euro – one thing, cost it what it wants! There we go, and everyone in the euro has a free ticket. [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel: Cost what it wants, he didn't say that!]] That's what Schäuble, hard to sum up, said in the core. And then there are the arguments we hear here from the Federal Government. Now I gather what has gone in this direction all day, from today in the early until now. Once again, there is one argument that is already in the name of it, it would be a euro saving screen. – I have to give my colleague, Van der Bellen. He said that it is all possible, but not a euro-saving shield, because the euro is certainly not threatened by the state bankruptcy of Greece. There are other men at risk. The euro would not even be threatened if Greece and Portugal were to go into the state bankruptcy – it does not look like it at the moment – because a currency is independent of the bankruptcy of its members. The strength of a currency, the stability, depends on a reasonable relationship between national benefits and money circulation or money circulation speed. This is just as if someone who has been in the euro zone or earlier in the D-Mark zone, such as Kosovo or Montenegro, logs in or goes down state bankruptcy. That doesn't matter! – So this argument is inexistent, and the use of the term in itself is a deception of those you talk to. The second – which has also fallen several times; I have noted cap and stupid among others –: The euro would have been a shield in the economic crisis. So a shield in the economic crisis, and: How would it have happened to us if we had not had the euro? – Yes, we see this in many countries, as has been done by those who did not have the euro: Denmark, Sweden, Switzerland, Estonia and many others. Theirs has not actually been bad. And we see it in the government argument: Some think we would have been speculated down without the euro, the schilling would have been speculated in soil and soil! There would have been the comments made by Mr Krugman, that would have been enough. And today's Mr. Schüssel: Yes, we had suffered billions of losses like Switzerland, so that we could have stopped the high-speed schilling! Of course, you can invent everything possible, even if it is insoluble contradiction to each other, but you can't do one thing: You can't wipe aside the things that actually happened. And in this crisis, it has occurred that those who have not been in the euro have had no or no significant monetary problems, in particular have not had or had no stabilisation tasks, if they do not participate somewhere in the euro zone, but those who have been inside, as we have, have come into calamities. I even heard from you, Mr Krainer, the word ‘fire insurance’. You see this Euro protection screen... [[Intrusions of the Abg. Krainer.]] You have used the word: the Euro Protector as a fire insurance to which you like to deposit. – What kind of fire insurance is this if we don't insure ourselves, but if we insure neighbors, spend the money until we get no more, and we pay for it? [[Cheerfulness and applause at the FPÖ.]] That's a happy deposit? – I can hardly imagine that. Or: We need the ESM now, because it allows us to take private to the draw. – For what, colleague Schüssel or whoever argued, do we need the ESM to do this? Of course, we can put private individuals in the trap by the state stopping its payments, as it has often happened – Poland, Argentina. If the state no longer serves its bonds, the private are in the draw. And then, among other things, there is a Paris Club and all the possibilities that communicate between creditors and state, and there is then a 40, 50, 60 percent solution – or there is no solution, as in the case of Argentina. There's nothing for the private as long as they don't agree with the state. So: To demand something from the private, I don't need anything, I just have to go the normal way. If anyone is unable to pay, even as a state, then there is nothing for the creditors of that state even until one brings a balance together and agrees with the state on terms. Why this should not happen in this case is not explained because, of course, the banking argument is not used or is not used very badly – even though it is not correct, because the dimensions that the Greek advocate for the banking system would have meant are incomparablely lower, probably a fifth or even less of the impact of the previous economic crisis. This would probably have been easy for any nation-state to absorb without any additional bank assistance, only by changing depreciation possibilities for the banks involved. One last thing you should also discuss: The fact that there is no change, as the Federal Chancellor meant, above all, in the morning, and therefore we do not need a referendum; everything remains with the old. This question has also tried to address Mr Schüssel. – Apart from the fact that it is legal and factually wrong, it is above all economically and politically completely wrong, for what has been so far was a voluntary one-time achievement. It can still be said, under the wrong application of the provisions, that this was like a natural disaster that broke into the Greeks, that they themselves did not understand their own budget or deceived themselves. This is a natural disaster, for which they can't do anything, we will save once! – But now it is about institutionalisation, for which the Constitution of the European Union does not require any assistance – the word “compulsory” is naturally avoided – but the possibility of assistance is enshrined. This means that, according to the decision-making processes that the European Union knows with its institutions, it will be decided in future whether and to what extent aid will be provided. At the same time, some have correctly said that a kind of European Monetary Fund can be set up, which – and this is very important – can also in future lend its own loans, indebted itself. In other words, the pyramid game is driven even further: Not only do states accept debt to pay the debts of other countries, it will create an institution called ESM, which can itself accept debts and thus pay debts from other countries for which states are liable. States do not even need to show this in the budget, because they have only external liability. They do not accept debts, but there is an outsourced debt agency that calls itself ESM, and that finances it. The whole is the Transfer Union in pure culture, and the whole thing is, of course, the Eurobond through the back door, which – as the Chancellor said at least in the last main committee – is also rejected by him. He will be rejected, but he will be introduced. We have therefore tabled a motion for a resolution which I can read and propose for the vote. [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e16429	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e16518	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Van der Bellen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e16539	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! We have already given an opinion to the ESM this morning; Mr Schüssel has once again described what this is about. In this context, I would just like to refer to one point: Question 12 by Mr Bucher: ‘What incentives exist for over-indebted countries to return to the Stability Pact if they’, and so on, ‘refinance more cheaply from the Euroreturn screen (...)?’ That is an essential question. The economists call it “Moral Hazard”, that is, I have a country that is – holladrio! – debt, overdebtedness and so on, in faith: The others will cut me out! – Even if it is, Mr Bucher, but look at the conditions that Greece, in particular, has been given in this context. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stefan.]] That's unprecedented. That's unprecedented! Whether or not that will be met to 100 percent, that is a second question, but these requirements they have received before they get the credit from this then construction, that is unprecedented. [[Abg. May. Stadler: That's what we see anyway that they don't...!]] [[Abg. May. Stefan: That's not where we pay!]] I can only say: A country taking this risk is in danger of being eroded. [[Abg. May. Stadler: But go!]] This incentive is not to be subject to the Euro Rescue Screen. I can only warn you about that! [[Call:This is impossible to execute]] [[Abg. May. Stefan: What does that mean by international law? Are we going to march?]] - That's ridiculous! What does “unexecutable ” mean? Then they won't get credit if they don't sign the terms! - Yeah, yeah. [[Abg. May. Stadler: They already have it!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bucher.]] You didn't understand what it was all about. What is open, and there I am with you, Mr Bucher, that is the moral hazard problem on the part of the creditors, on the side of the banks. This question remains largely unresolved. From mid-2013, if it is true, it will try to meet it through these different clauses and so on, but there are several questions open, you are right. But really, Mr. Bucher, your questions 21 and 22, especially in question 21: Are you prepared to ensure that the final price of fuels (...) in Austria does not increase even at rising commodity prices? – Now I took Naivling seriously sometime when you said you wanted to make the BZÖ a liberal economic party. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Bucher: This is the Luxembourg model!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler:... play with the tax!]] Regardless of the cost development, regardless of the crude oil price development, you want to keep the final price of the fuels constant?! – Yes, please, that’s Soviet, that’s not economic liberal! We have already tried this out, Mr Bucher. You don't mean that!Unknown term type: "%s".? [[Abg. Head: That would be an invitation!]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Breschnew!]] What's next? What's next? We are turning off the cost development, are we depriving prices such as those in the Soviet Union at that time? - Well, that's ridiculous! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Over taxes you can take a span...!]] To the Euro Pact, to the Euro Plus Pact: Mr Stadler will have told you, Mr Bucher, that I have been evocative in the main committee on information policy – or better said: Disinformation policy – the Federal Government as regards EU projects, in particular those of the Ministry of Finance. However, the Federal Chancellery was also affected, in connection with this Euro Pact, the Pact for the Euro. I've gotten an evocative on that: Since the end of January, since Merkel and Sarkozy developed the first ideas, then under the title “Pact of Competitiveness”, Parliament has not received any official, timely, immediate information on this issue. Yes, I am fully behind that, and we will not let this matter be based on ourselves – but in terms of content, Mr Bucher, since the end of January, since Merkel and Sarkozy have changed a lot of things on any walk, we say once: developed. The text, which was still in the main committee for debate, is not insignificant from what is now in the conclusions of the European Council last weekend, not insignificant! Originally, there were formulations inside that you rub your hair, now there is, how am I supposed to say it – what is this called washing? – a soft dishwasher with it! [[Abg. May. Stadler: It's fungerous, but it's the same thing inside!]] There is no mention of common wage policy – I do not know where you have it – no talk of it at all! On the contrary, it is explicitly noted that “maintaining the autonomy of the social partners in the collective bargaining process”. This is the collective autonomy of the negotiators, which is expressly mentioned. [[Abg. Bucher:... a step further thought!]] You will have nothing against observing the development of unit labour costs in the international comparison, compared with the members of the eurozone, will you? And from the goals: My God, Mr Bucher, to promote competitiveness, to promote employment, to promote sustainability, to promote the sustainability of public finances and to promote financial stability in general, but you will have nothing, will you? [[Abg. Bucher: We didn't criticize!]] That is why we do not need to imitate the hysteria of financial markets here in Parliament. [[Abg. Bookbooker: Page 6!]] As far as public finances are concerned, I would also assume that you have nothing against looking at the demographic situation at nationally, as it stands here, at the “effective retirement age”, that is, the retirement age, and considering how to increase the employment rate in the country concerned, would you? That's nothing... [[Abg. Bucher: I didn't criticize!]] – You have pretended that the Pact, the Euro Plus Pact, or as it is now called, would really interfere with the most intimate secrets of Austrian economic policy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter]] [[Abg. Bucher:... influence!]] There can be no talk of that! [[Abg. Wenninger:... not even read!]] In the area of fiscal rules – that is, what is indicated in the financial policy rules – there are a few delicate points that you have not done exactly. But where I would have expected your support would be in the field of tax coordination – non-regulatory, tax coordination! – e.g. in the field of corporate tax. What do you, on the other hand, do you have when seriously examined, for the first time in the history of the Union, that there is a common basis of corporate tax? [[Abg. Bucher: There would have to be a common basis...!]] [[Abg. Bookbooker: Not even those!]] What's wrong with that? We'd go even further. We would also imagine a Community base of rates, because this type of tax competition – keyword: [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: Ireland!]] Ireland, of course, has its unproductive pages, we say. [[Abg. Bucher: We don't agree!]] – Are you not of this opinion? You are still in favour of tax competition at European level, is it costing what it wants? [[Abg. Bucher: A common basis of assessment, that would be a big common step!]] – Not even a common basis of assessment do you want? - Ah, that's it! Well, that's it! At least that is – and that is exactly what is stated in this paper in the conclusions of the European Council. [[Abg. Bucher: Read what's inside!]] – What am I supposed to read? ‘The Commission has presented a legislative proposal on a common consolidated corporate tax base.’ That is to say, the Commission has already been working on this, and this chapter ends with it. What I'm excited about – you're right again – is what the Federal Chancellor will now report to the Commission on annual targets: That's what we're going to do.The Commission will review it, and so on. Now I know anyway, it is not eaten as hot as it is cooked, but from the principle I do not find that a bad attempt, let us say, coordination. This is still far away from a European economic government – as always. [[Abg. Bucher: A year ago, we believed this with the rescue shield!]] I would just like to remind you that we needed a little more common economic government in the case of Ireland. In the case of Ireland, it was clear long before the crisis that the interest rates for Ireland were too low, and the ECB cannot pursue a regional interest rate policy. [[Abg. Bucher: In Ireland, the banks were guilty! Don't be confused!]] – Yes, of course, the banks, but the Irish State, my colleague, could have countered it in time, and it has not been done. Assuming that the Commission or anyone else in Brussels would have known better, it would have been better for all of us to have intervened in Ireland in good time. What the Irish would have said, I can imagine that without a doubt, but at that time something similar to a European economic government would have been very, very necessary. Then we would have saved the whole of the Irish crisis. [[Abg. Bucher: I think so!]] Greece is not, this is a completely different chapter, but we would have saved Ireland. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e16960	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Westenthaler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e16981	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! Yesterday, I was approached by a fellow citizen on the street – we discussed – after reading how these amounts of money, these billions, have been pushed back and forth. She said she reminded me of this a little bit – and this is obviously modern at the moment, and these broadcasts are often on private television at the moment – the “PokerStars” broadcast, which is currently running across all channels. [[Call:DKT]] She says that there are always some people sitting around a green, smearly illuminated table and pushing huge money-jeton mountains over the table. Similarly, it must have been between the Heads of Government at EU level. Probably not dark, but bright, but with regard to this money mountain that has been pushed over the table – it is also not Jeton's, but huge virtual amounts in billions. I imagine this as much as I do at PokerStars – with two big differences that I still realized, first of all: With the PokerStars, the amounts of money that are pushed over the table usually belong to the players and not to anyone else. – What you are pushing over the table, Mr Chancellor, in billions, this is the Austrians and is tax money, hard-earned tax money, which you place there on the EU's poker table. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] And the second big difference: Usually – not always, but usually – those who sit at such a poker table and play poker there can afford to do so. Federal Chancellor! Neither you nor even the Republic of Austria can afford, once more, €2.5 billion for any shield, whatever the name now is, because it is simply not inside, because you do not have it, and in addition the interest and whatever is added there and then the first tranche of €2.2 – so we are at € 4.5 billion. [[Abg. Bucher: Then the interest will be added!]] Mr. Federal Chancellor, that's just not inside, and therefore people don't understand that every time you go straight to the EU's powerful, you're going straight into a bent attitude and how the PokerStars just move the Jetons over and then don't even want to inform Parliament and don't want to ask the people either. No one understands this procedure, Federal Chancellor! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Or figuratively said: While you're straining some euro rescue shields, it rains the Austrians back and forth, for example the families. I am glad that a representative of the euro experts from the ÖVP is now sitting on the government bank. Families are getting rid of the money, pensioners get less, workers get less – I come to the drivers. And, Mr Van der Bellen – unfortunately, he is not here now – that is, of course, a very clear attack on the Austrian wage structure! It is formulated in the famous EU speech – so foolish that you can choose it in truth – but of course there is on page 16 of the conclusions: ‘Assessing wage formation schemes and, where necessary, the degree of centralisation in the negotiation process and the indexing procedures’. EU-smooth, but what that means is perfectly clear. [[Abg. Wenninger: Check!]] Of course, the practice here is to intervene in the wage structure, and I tell you that is not in the sense of Austrian workers! And that it is not, your trade unionists have recognized God and have already made an alarm – thank God! We're doing that, too. [[Abg. Wenninger: Nothing understood!]] Let's be honest, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go. Do you really believe with the experience of recent years that EU equality policy is holding back from social standards, from wage structures or from taxes? On the contrary, these are the next major issues that come to the agenda, where massive intervention is being made, what your trade unionists are warning of, what we are warning against, because we do not want a wage dumping imposed by the EU and thus less money for all. It is our job to be careful, and the BZÖ is doing this, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Don't forget – I tell you that again and again: A million people in Austria live in poverty or on the poverty line – do not forget! – the families are not doing well, and where there is a big problem at the moment, of course, these are the seed prices. There's the Lord. Van der Bellen briefly explains: The Luxembourg model, of course, is not a Marxist-Leninist model, as Mr Cap said in an interlocutory call, but it is perfectly clear: Of course, with such an exploding price of petrol, where we are currently at EUR 1 and a half and the forecasts go towards €2, there must be a maximum price scheme – but not absoluteistic, according to some requirement, but by defining a span itself in the internal relationship for Austrian consumers via the oil tax. And if the price is too high, we go down with the mineral oil tax, and so the Austrians pay less per litre of fuel. That's the job you actually had. That would be your job! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wenninger.]] And then, as before, Mr. Schüssel comes in a call, saying: Yes, but then the companies come and raise the price even more. – Dr. Schüssel, the state holds a 30 percent share at the OMV! Then, as the Federal Government or the Government Party, you will also have the obligation to bring back once again the rulers of the OMV who have won €900 million last year, in the last four years €5 billion – and that on the back of the Austrian drivers. That's going to be pardoned. Then they will also make a mandatory contribution, and a special dividend will also be distributed so that the spray prices can be reduced accordingly. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This is the demand that we have – and not just always drain. She's not just supposed to take it off, because that's what the OMV does: It's always being excavated! [[New condolences with BZÖ.]] The prices are rising? – Every price increase will be made! And when prices fall, you can't remember it anymore. The falling of the fuel prices is no longer involved, as you stay on the level. – And the government lays its hands in the lap and sees how the Austrian drivers – and in particular the commuters – can no longer afford to drive. Mr Bundeskanzler, I know, you do not pay the profit for the service car, and perhaps you do not know how difficult it is for anyone in a family today if today a father is a worker who needs to commute if every second of the 1.8 million commuters does not at all benefit from a pendulum fee, because they are still completely wrong in their income and therefore every counterpart who falls under the income tax limit of €11 000 has no claim to the penalty fee at all. [[Abg. Krainer: He's getting the pendler supplement!]] Turn the shuttle fee into a real kilometre money per kilometre from the workplace to your home! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That would be fair, that would be all right! But that now, in this situation in which the fuel prices are exploding, in which we have families, people, mothers who bring their children to school, who have to shop in the country, who have to do their business dependent on the car, are still going there and there still €40 million per month over the mineral oil tax, that is simply and surely indecent, Mr. Federal Chancellor. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Supplement! Supplies!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bucher.]] This is not only socially unfair, it is inappropriate, and therefore we say: Get away with this mineral oil tax increase! In this difficult time, at least temporarily return this increase to the drivers! This is our demand, Mr President. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] It must not be that driving is a luxury. We know that the drivers are the milk cows of the nation, but do you know that the drivers are already paying seven taxes? Are you aware of that? – You pay the mineral oil tax, the VAT, you pay the VAT when you buy a car, you pay the standard consumption tax, you pay the motor insurance tax, you pay the normal insurance tax and – not enough yet – you also pay, in the price increasing each year, the vignette. Seven taxes in total provide you with the drivers, among them chiefly the counterparts – €30 billion each year for your budget! And you're not willing to leave once if it's difficult to get up the international roaming trip if the drivers need to do something and take care of relief here. That would be your social obligation, Mr Bundeskanzler, who otherwise transports you again and again. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I think it would be time to show responsibility here and offer discharges here – and not just to refer to the great beauty in Europe, where the Heads of Government like to meet to play poker. That’s “ nice” that you put the money over the table there, but be careful a little, Mr. Federal Chancellor, take care of the Austrians! They have a large and strong sensorium for what is socially just. They know exactly. And what you're doing here is simply putting some marod, failed state structures into money with both hands, and at the same time forgetting the Austrian population at every stage, that will not do you good in the next elections. And that will be a fair choice.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e17157	Next speaker: Mr Krainer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e17178	For a time it was really possible to say that the debate had a certain level and a certain seriousness. Then Peter Westenthaler came, and then, of course, it was over. It is particularly exciting when he lists taxes, calling once a VAT and once a turnover tax, as if they were different taxes. But perhaps there is someone in the BZÖ club who could tell colleagues Westenthal that VAT and VAT are not different taxes, but only different names for the same tax. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Sales tax on buying, Mr. Colleague, I said! - That's crazy! That's a zero out there!]] And funny was also, as he started – apart from the fact that he ransacked a biterl, but we already know that – that is, a citizen spoke to him somewhere and told him a story, and the story was then his own story. [[Abg. Markowitz: Look here! Look here! - He's looking at it!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: The Matznetter already twists his eyes when he listens to you!]] So, in truth, he invented the citizen and only told his own story. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: (on the speaker) The Albert Fortell for the poor!]] But we are quite accustomed to what Mr Westenthaler has done. He is also a well-known liar. That is why, of course, the facts he presents are always to be valued accordingly. But that's what Mr Westenthaler says. [[Abg. Bucher: Would you like nothing else? – This is a witness of poverty! - That's your financial speaker?]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Matznetter will become financial spokesperson again!]] The question we are dealing with today is the question of the ESM, the way in which we as the Republic deal with it when States have difficulty refinancing their debts. This is, of course, an important question. [[Abg. Booker: (introduced to the speaker) The financial spokesman of the SPÖ!]] [[Further call to the BZÖ.]] I don't know, they're not calming down. They're really messed up today. [[Call to the SPÖ: Although the Petzner is not there!]] Yes, the Petzner is not here, and yet they are so restless. Maybe it's because he's not there. And the grosz's not here either. But the unrest remains. [[Abg. Bookbooker: Such a weak financier!]] The question is: How do we deal with states having difficulties refinancing their debts? All states are faced with the task of refinancing their debts and, if they have debts to cover them again through new debts – that is, a reality that happens – to see that they have the debt under control at the same time, and also to try to get them back. [[Abg. Bookbooker: Here you are world champions!]] [[Abg. Bookbooker: In debt making you really are world champions!]] The fact that it is not possible to reduce the debt in an economic crisis will be understood by everyone, with the exception of the colleague Bucher. When the BZÖ was in the government, the debt rose despite economic growth. [[Abg. Bucher: The BZÖ has no debt! We are the only party that has no debt!]] When the SPÖ came, they fell – before the economic crisis. But perhaps the colleague Bucher will get it sometime. He also believes that the hypo-Alpe-Adria problems have something to do with red or black, just because we saved the bank. What really happened here in 2010: We had not 1.6 billion € loss, but 1.06 billion €. But this difference is a “smallness” of 60 percent. And more than €1.2 billion of these are credit risk precautions, because when you get through the loans, the loans that have been granted under the old bank management are just lazy. – That means, in fact, these are still the old loads of Haider and Co., which are somehow being processed here. [[Abg. May. Widmann: Was the Haider Bank Director?]] And there is an immediate attempt to push the red and black into the shoes. [[Call at the SPÖ: This is typical!]] This is the usual way to deal with it. We're gonna have to take a bath in what you put in the other one. [[Abg. Ursula Haubner: Was the Haider Bank Director?]] But we like to do that. A number of interesting questions have been raised in the debate today. The essential question, I think, is: What do markets do, what does the state do, what does politics do? What to leave markets, what to leave to the state? And: Where is the state to intervene, and what is it supposed to do? – There are ideologists, especially in the case of BZÖ, who in principle always say it should do everything in the market, one should deregulate, the states should not help each other, should not intervene. – I see this very pragmatically. The question is: What do I get better results with? Do I get better results if the market does something, or do I get better results when the state does something or when politics intervenes? And what is clear in the face of an economic crisis and in crisis situations is that if the state intervenes and the state consciously gains accents and, at times, makes it aware of debt to prevent or minimise the impact of crisis-like developments. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Hopefully you do not make unconscious debts too! That would be very bad if you made unconscious debts!]] Then: Let us look at the last major economic crisis in the 1930s! That's what the BZÖ is calling for today, namely: To watch what happens, and to say, the markets do all this, never come to the idea of saving a bank because banks are evil. [[Abg. May. Stadler: This is not comparable! - You don't know!]] At that time hundreds of banks went down the stream. What was the real economic result? – Now I am not yet talking about what the consequences were political, what they were social, but only what they meant for the economy. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Is there also an unconscious speech?]] – We had 500 000 unemployed in Austria, and this in the case of a significantly smaller population, with significantly fewer jobs. We had a mass poverty like we had for a long time. If I compare this with how the crisis is handled today: Yeah, we're saving banks. Yes, we do – not because we want to save the banks, but because we know that this will prevent worse effects on the real economy. And yes, we do not watch when states get into refinancing difficulties, but we also help each other here. If you say the comparison with fire insurance is not quite correct: Of course, it's not quite right, because you pay a premium every year for a fire insurance, and the money is gone. Here it is different: Here we pay something in five instalments and then almost nothing more. And if sometime from one of those who are burning down the house, he gets a credit from there, but he has to pay back. And, of course, that's a difference. But I'm telling you, what you can compare is: There are areas, I like to pay and I'm glad if I don't get anything out! And just as I am glad that I don't get anything out of a fire insurance, I am also glad if Austria never gets the ability to get money out of the ESM. Why, in principle, Mr Van der Bellen has already tried to explain to you – I don't know if you understood – because the conditions under which you get money from the ESM are really a demise. In fact, democracy may not be abolished – it still exists formally – but the real decisions are no longer made by democratic systems, at least not by those within the respective country, but the country in question then has requirements that it needs to fulfil, and they are anything but funny. That is why we are glad if we never need this shield ourselves.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e17470	Mrs Tamandl is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e17491	Madam President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Appreciate members of the government! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Westenthaler, in one thing I would like to say to you: They said fuel prices are too high. - That's not a question. And: A system change could be made at the shuttle fee. - I'd be right, too. But one thing you have to say: However, the fuel companies have increased prices several times, which in fact has nothing to do with the increase in mineral oil tax. [[Call the BZÖ: He said that!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: He said that!]] – But today is not a topic. And that's exactly your system: that you assure people of such uncertainty and that you bring in other topics on a subject where you bet on the one hand on the euro protection screen. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: This is in the urgent request! Didn't you read that?]] - I know. But that doesn't fit in. We can discuss this on another occasion. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: What about you today? – First, she starts the debate with your EU counterparts, and then...!]] [[Abg. May. Stefan:... ignite your house yourself!]] I am of the opinion – and I would like to join in with what Mr Krainer said – when you enter a community, you can not only pick out the roses, but you are also obliged to help each other. And Mr Hübner said: If you pay in an insurance and then you have nothing of it... – So I think we can just as well need the shield once we get into turbulence. Of course, we do not want to do this, because we do everything we can to get our deficit under control and to consolidate our budgets. And I think that is also the right way for us to continue to be self-esteemed in democracy in Austria. Today the question has been raised a few times: Is our wage policy or our economic policy now being involved? – We confess to the social partners in Austria! I think that the opposition would do well to make a commitment to the social partners as well. And we also confess to an Austrian economic policy. I don't know what you wanted to do with that scream today. You can always interpret something else into something else if you simply don't want to believe in it or if you want to believe in something else. [[Abg. May. Stadler: So this is a “faith question ”!]] But Mr Stadler has said that we are still talking about the hypo – a very interesting point that the BZÖ itself has raised. You said it's no fame sheet that the black and red owner recorded almost a billion € in loss in 2010. – Well, if you take over 100 percent of the shares at the end of 2009, you cannot of course be responsible for 2009. And in 2010 1 billion € loss, you said: I would just like to say that in one year we cannot reorganise these interrelations and this felt and these systems that have ruled there in Carinthia and in connection with the Carinthian government. [[Abg. Bucher: Ah go!]] You'll probably admit that to us, too. [[Abg. Bucher: Martinz! Mr Martinz! Supervisory Board! – Can you tell Mr Martinz?]] But one thing is also interesting: For example, you have not mentioned that in 2008 a 2007 balance sheet profit has been paid out, which in fact has not affected the operating business and should not have been distributed at all, and that a lion share of these €50 million is now expected to repay the country of Carinthia with interest – perhaps that will be seen. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Who was the owner there? – Your... from the CSU were owners!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Didn't the Martinz tell you that?]] But only: This is not at all a piece of fame that one has actually served with counterfeit balance sheets on a bank that had to save the Republic of Austria and the taxpayers with their tax money. [[Abg. Dr. Strutz: Who is the chairman of the Landes-Holding? – Mr Martinz! – Don't be so wrong! The Martinz of the ÖVP...!]] [[Abg. Dr. Strutz: Such a fool!]] And because you keep talking about the banks being sent into bankruptcy: What would that mean? What would that mean in Carinthia? – In Carinthia, this would have meant that the 20 billion € national liability would have been hit by the fact that we would have triggered unemployment, that we should have sent the country of Carinthia into bankruptcy – would you have? – that we in Carinthia probably had mass unemployment, that we would have received credit for SMEs – where you always want to support SMEs – and that savings would not be secured. If you want to, you can only say: Congratulations! This is where you see what you have for a political, economic and political competence.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e17671	Mr Grastaur. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the honourable Member for his excellent report. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e17692	Thank you, Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! If Austria is listening to and looking at this debate today, the Austrians must become afraid and afraid. I have already wondered a little, Chancellor, that you are still ready to smile on the occasion of the seriousness of today's discussion. It may be a smile that comes from your uncertainty in this regard. But I don't understand, because the situation is more than serious. [[Abg. Bucher: Now we're at the street, aren't we?]] Today we are talking about the Euro Rescue Screen, and we are already asking the question: Is the euro to be saved at all? The citizens are asking for these huge amounts of money to be discussed here – at least they are amounts, liabilities of €700 billion – to know whether the euro is still to be saved. Then: In principle, Gerettet is being used on pump – you have to know – because countries such as Greece and Portugal have to pay in this lifeguard – and, like Austria, of course, on pump. How did this very catastrophic situation come about? – This has already begun with the introduction of the euro in Austria without the people being asked, although it has been promised that when the schilling is removed and the euro is introduced, the people will be asked. - It didn't happen. [[Abg. Bucher: That's what it started!]] [[Call: Who was there in the government?]] As a merchant I am, I already have the question of what euphoria you went into the introduction of the euro at the time, because you missed a lot of things, misanalysed them, did not really light the financial market up properly. Otherwise, it could not have happened that the countries participating in the euro are in the monetary union so different from their economies. Many of them should not have been included at this time. There are basically wrong strategies. And I am pleased, Dr. Schüssel, that you have confirmed this today. You say now we are slowly moving in the right direction. That's the sign that you think badly. Long-term planning is also lacking, and there is a long-term need for control through European financial market surveillance and European credit rating agencies. Federal Chancellor! ==References====External links== In March, we presented what this euro-saving-screen means. You said there was no alternative without If and But let's go there, and it would be the economic crisis. – I tell you, the fact is another one, because the Greeks were already in favour of this economic crisis. They have falsified their budgets, they have presented false figures, and they have, strangely, been supported by the American side in this context – whatever that means. There has recently been a lecture in which the very well-known Professor Schneider pointed out and said the following: “If a country behaves financially, there must also be the possibility of exclusion from monetary union.” – So far Schneider. I would like to bring another quote from a newspaper – so that it doesn't mean that we are always so well done by the FPÖ – and George Wailand writes on 25 May. March in the “Kronen Zeitung”: “Euro rescue with expensive full kasko”. ‘Once again, the euro is ‘retarded’. (...) Whether this will be useful?” – And he then explains: ‘The new ‘Euro Rescue Screen’ shows the same knitting errors as the Maastricht Treaty at the time: It seems that targets have been set if a state does not achieve them, then it is not automatically punished, but it is fooled by the finance ministers. What comes out is known. Very little. The next'survey' is even more lying: The loans which the States have to take up for their participation are not covered by public debt. Aha, as if it didn’t exist at all...” – Significant for the situation! And something I could read recently in the “Press”, from Germany: There are consultants who support German Finance Minister Wolfgang Schäuble and who say: The ‘Euro screen is a miscontrol’. “For the 31 economists, the European Stability Mechanism (ESM) consolidates the ‘Feel Taxation in Financial Policy and on Capital Markets’, because Pleitelands receive assistance from financially healthy ones. ‘This encourages policy to prevent debt and financial crises.’ What is particularly disturbing to me about the whole development is that a so-called savings package has recently been printed out to the Austrians. You know what I'm talking about: 1 billion € mass taxes and 1 billion € reduction in social benefits. And these 2 billion € and beyond are gone by the payment in the lifeguard with a dash. That will not be understood by our fellow citizens. It is irresponsible to add further debt to these high debts. I hope that the voters will take this into account at the next urn and remember it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e17761	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e17783	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! It has now become common for you to take a position here on the Pendler-Pauschale. Where we are sure to meet with some previous speakers, that is when it comes to the demand that this is simply redesigned, because it is not only ecologically problematic there or there, but is also guided by a social miscontrol. It would have to be remodelled that those who earn less also have something of it and do not have exactly the most of those who deserve the most anyway. This is the construction of the pendler-pauschale – that is what the least know – and that is actually being rebuilt. Now on the real issue. The future ESM system is still at the centre, as is the current hour. The mechanism of action has not yet been fully described or matured, of course we see a danger as far as the process is concerned, namely that this is too far away from democratic integration on the one hand, but also too far away from the European Parliament. There is, of course, already a risk, as honourable Member Schüssel has said, that this will be subject to intergovernmental doubling very strongly. And it doesn't always have to get the best out of such a sensitive thing. I'd actually see that as a danger. It will therefore still be important to see how this stability mechanism will actually be developed. [[President Neugebauer shall take over the chairmanship.]] But it is obvious that the current mechanism, if one wants to call it that way, is at least the attempt or the possibility that the private and the banks, as they are repeatedly mentioned by the right opposition parties, will once again be drawn in as far as they are on the creditor list. I'd like to acknowledge that. On the other hand, it is, of course, that way – and I come to the other points that would now be needed from a green point of view at European level – that we need to do so at all, and we are, in fact, still far away from establishing such a thing as a re-indebted or debt-debt or a partial debt-debt procedure. This would have put us in a different position in the Greek question. It would have to look at how best to intervene overnight and intervene here, that exactly those who have previously earned a great deal – that was exactly the case in Greece – also do according to their contribution, because especially under the indication that there would be particularly high risks here, there was no injustice, especially high interest rates. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] And they flowed into there. But they have not gone into the treasure of the European taxpayer or the European taxpayer. To a smaller proportion over one or other pension funds or there or there they may hang with inside, but grossly modo this has been a huge redistribution action from bottom to top because the banks and the funds and some financial institutions are more natural to 80, 90 percent, if not more, in the ownership of the top ten thousand. In Europe, 'the upper Ten thousand” perhaps the wrong concept, but at least it is less than the top 10 percent of the assets, very few, perhaps 1% of the assets that have been admitted to sit inside and earn first over ownership structures in banks, the funds, the financial institutions – that is still a point of their own – with a country where it has already paid off to speculate with the government papers, because it has shown corresponding economic weaknesses. I guess that was recognizable. Nevertheless, we have had to note that the interest rates, months before that was so high, are up. Nothing has happened, Merkel has still swaddered around due to country election considerations and even worsened the whole thing. So the new system will not get under control in this form as we would wish. That might be another point where we could meet with the applicants. I miss the initiatives in this direction. Or you would have to confess, as I think, that Mr Stadler has described, that without this mechanism it is possible to make it happen once. We were all there – that was decided unanimously here in the house – when it came to saving the so-called Austrian financial centre, the banks, because no one could really appreciate exactly what that means. It's no one here who's a fully trained economist, and there's no way we could have estimated that because there's a lot of ideology inside. But I am also less and less willing, for reasons of justice policy alone, to let myself be kept up or to let myself be prevented that there are no alternatives. This is not going to happen, because then we have to resign as a politician. That can't be, because then we've already played everything. [[Abg. Bucher: Bravo!]] Then there is no longer any primacy of politics with regard to this economic and financial world. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Bucher.]] There must be ways, including at European level. Now, of course, we are a small country, which is already clear, but there must be ways for which we should then also use the mechanisms to get back in the right direction and work, namely from politics in the financial sector and not vice versa. I also share this finding. And more and less, we should be willing to be guided by the fact that a bank is going to crack again and again and again. Therefore, this ESM still has the advantage that we will at least have this as compared to the status quo. First of all, one might think about the financial institution, some sort of financial institution, some funds – under quotation marks – and then try out the way that happens. Otherwise, we are always in the hostagery of the banks, and that's not an abstraction. Of course, there are the unsympathetic managers there with their bonuses. The bonuses are not the main problem that they're pulling out millions, that's not the damage at all. The damage is that the bonuses are paid for decision-making mechanisms that speed up the problems instead of solving them because they cash their bonuses along decisions making the whole financial system even more unstable. That's the problem there. But for the individual, of course, it is enough to motivate a few million to make decisions that result in a total maximum damage. But that's not the problem with the whole thing. The problem is that there are owners behind it too, that someone also deserves to do so, and the money does not disappear, because if there are debtors on the one hand, there are also creditors on the other. It's definitely that way. Whether the money is scarce or too much money or whatever – completely meated, it is always so. And that's just a drive mechanism of this system. After all, it must not only be looked at the “evil” Greeks or their inefficiencies that exist there – I say more often – but it must also be discerned these mechanisms that drive the whole system. And here we come to the conclusion that it is not possible that we always grant that security with the money of taxpayers. The small ones are there just as much because VAT is paid everywhere in Europe. And VAT is something that affects the little ones in relation to their income and assets of course much more than the upper ones. This is the main source of revenue for the tax pots across Europe, and this is simply a redistribution from bottom to top. There you have to look differently and look differently; that would be a challenge for the Social Democrats. So if this ESM provided for these re-indebtedness possibilities, it would certainly have beneficial effects. Of course, we also need increased banking supervision and rules on financial markets. There has been far too little progress, even there we share the intention of the petitioners. Finally, the following points will be raised: Tax harmonisation, yes, but please, we need those in the minimum tax rates too, otherwise the tax competition will only go down in vain. It is very important in corporate taxation that we collect minimum rates, because otherwise everyone behaves in the same way as Ireland: Entrepreneurs come to us, you don't pay tax! And if something goes wrong on another corner, you didn't manage revenue yourself, although you have a lot of companies in the country, which is why it looks good in terms of jobs – and the rest of Europe subsidizes this nonsense. If you want certain minimum benefits of the public hands, you will have to be comfortable down to this minimum security, because the alternative is that the capital, which otherwise no longer pays any tax at all, pays only more about the factor labour, especially wage tax and the so-called wage additional costs. This must be broken down, and the European Union would really be the right thing if one were finally to be comfortable there to recognize the problem in this way and to do something. I can tell you that we need one because the current Commissioner for Finance does not want to see partout. So we still have enough to do. He was visiting us the other day and gave this scrap the best. So that was really adventurous. There is really enough to do there – get in there!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e17836	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Lugar. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e17858	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! High house! Mr. Federal Chancellor Faymann, you have told us here today that you have done everything you can to save the euro. – Now let’s look at whether the euro was actually in danger. When you tried to sell us this aid package – it started with Greece – it said: Without this aid package, the euro will fail, so the euro is in danger! Only there are now many experts who say: The euro was not in danger at the time, but today it is in danger. And precisely because of this aid package, he is in danger of this euro. Let us now look at the whole thing more precisely, let us look at what would have happened, and let Greece go! What happens to a state plate at all? – Many believe yes, that is the absolute disaster, and then the assets of the Greeks are ruined all over the world or the people fall into deep, bitter poverty. All this isn't happening. Over the last 30 years, 30 countries have been calling for words and writing. There are countries like Brazil, which are now the absolute superstars, there are countries such as Russia, which have even argued twice. In the event of a pleite, nothing happens but that the debtor agrees with the creditors on how much he believes he can repay. A so-called quota is being drawn up. And the creditors have to give up money accordingly. That's what happens. And there's something else going on: Of course, the respective countries will not get any more fresh money. That means they finally have to do their homework. Let us look at the whole thing again in the case of Greece! If Greece had argued, of course there would have been losses, even with European banks, no question, we might have had to jump in. What else would have happened? – There would have been a quota. We're talking about 40 to 60 percent here. I'm sure that would have been bitter. And the Greeks probably would not have gotten any more fresh money. That means they should have come out with the money they have. Is that so bad? Is it so bad that a state can no longer make deficits? I know we've been leaving this path for a long time. We no longer know what it is like not to make deficits, because in the past we have made more and more debts even in good years. And here we are at exactly what was saved here: It was not saved to the euro. The euro was never in danger. What was saved was our way of doing budgetary policy, namely with debt, with even more debt and with even more debt. That was saved. It was saved that in the future we will always get money from the financial markets and from whomever we can make further debts. That was saved. And that was in danger and nothing else. We are at a crucial point: We have more debts than ever were accumulated in times of peace. You have to imagine this: We have debts like after a war! We had no war, or did we have a war? Perhaps we had one: a war against reason, because many believe that you can make debts up to all eternity and that this money no one has to repay. But that's a mistake, one has to pay it back. That is why the opportunity would have been favorable to put a sign and to let Greece go, because then we should have rethinked. If Greece had argued, that would not have affected the euro at all. It wouldn't even have caused inflation. On the contrary: A government pleite has rather deflationary effects in a currency area, not inflationary ones. That is to say, we really had no problem. This is also the only danger that threatens a currency. The only danger to a currency is inflation and nothing else. And with this rescue package, we're on this road right now. We are on this road, which leads only to ruin ==References== We're on the inflation road. We have awakened the inflation gap and have managed to make the ECB do something that would have been unthinkable three years ago. If you had told anyone three years ago that the ECB would once buy state bonds from European countries, you would probably have been taken off with the forced jacket. That was unthinkable. This is, as it were, a self-satisfaction in its own currency system. No economist can explain how this is going to work. Finally, inflation is generated, and we are experiencing it right now. We are at the beginning of a huge inflation. And, of course, this inflation will hit one, namely the citizen. The citizen will pay for it. And he pays double: He pays on the one hand for They have stretched up this elusive rescue shield, which ultimately does not solve the problem but strengthens it, and it then pays back for inflation. I would now like to read to you something from 1997 because many say that everything was not predictable, Greece was Euro-fit, these are all events that we could not influence. In 1997 someone here said: The less developed European partner countries, especially the southern Member States, are facing financial difficulties. The last consequence will be that the rich countries will have to get under the arms of those countries with transfer payments. This means a new Euro tax for the Austrians. Do you know who said this in 1997, 13 years ago? That was Jörg Haider. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] He has already seen that this cannot work with those countries that are making problems right now. And if we don't stop trying to save these countries – I say try because it won't succeed anyway – then we'll be chaining to these countries and going down with them. That's exactly the point: Finally, citizens will pay for it because inflation is like an extra tax. And inflation will grow. It needs to grow because what the ECB does and what we do with this rescue shield is an increase in the volume of money, and an increase in the volume of money must always lead to inflation. And this inflation will pay people. One thing is still to be noted here, and that is really the summit of naughtiness: On the one hand, we expect great inflation – we already have two, three percent – on the other hand, the ECB has said, Mr Trichet, we must in all circumstances prevent second round effects. Do you know what that means? – Second-round effects mean that additional wage increases are envisaged as a result of inflation. In other words, the ECB believes that under all circumstances it is necessary to prevent people from getting more salary due to higher inflation. And here we know that people will pay, they will be bleeding properly, and that is why I say: Enough paid!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e17940	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Muttons. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e17961	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Lugar, Mr. Haider, however, has not seen him lead Carinthia into the ruin with your party and into an unlikely great debt. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] Don't forget that we're just glaringly past one of the biggest economic and financial crises in the last decades, ultimately triggered by speculation! And one thing makes the agreement on the new European Stability Mechanism clear and sends a very clear signal to the financial markets, namely that it makes no sense to speculate against a country of the euro area. I think that's a very important announcement. With the new stability mechanism, this has finally been clarified. The Community has collapsed, it is closed behind the euro, because ultimately the euro contributes to our prosperity and can secure it. The reforms now adopted will create stability and security that are so necessary for the future. In other words, the path leads from crisis policy to sustainable and active economic and employment policy, a policy that can now finally focus on investing in education, research and development and creating jobs, rather than averting attacks from financial markets. I would like to stress the following, ladies and gentlemen: It is a fact that the common currency, the euro, adds 2.6 billion each year. These numbers are not from somewhere, but the Wifo has done a study on this, and you can read that in it. But you can also read that the euro is bringing us something more, that is, 20 000 additional jobs. And if you want to give up, I think you can't really help him. In addition, the money paid into the shield also fulfils another very important purpose, namely: It is an investment in stability and security and thus an investment that enables Austria, with its export-oriented economy, to increase its prosperity and also to secure and create jobs. But this money will make even more. It is a prerequisite for us to be able to address the pressing social challenges in Europe: education, employment, poverty reduction. That is why this money is well and responsibly set up. In summary, it is now safe to focus on the sustainable management of the crisis. From the SPÖ's point of view, it is clear that first of all there is a need for greater justice and secondly a clear set of priorities. More justice is therefore necessary, because it cannot be that we all get presented the crisis bill, while others already deserve a golden nose again. The European Stability Mechanism is also making an important contribution, as private creditors, i.e. banks and hedge funds, are asked to pay for the first time systematically by the ESM – the new European Stability Mechanism – if a State has payment problems. And that's not enough. There's more to it. I am thinking, for example, of the financial transaction tax we are working on, as you all know. But this is a very good start. A clear set of priorities is a priority for future investment – I have already mentioned this – in education, in research or also in our social systems. The EU will also have to make its contribution. A form of bureaucrats is necessary, the reduction of EU agencies and the modernisation of the Staff Regulations. – These are just a few examples of what could ultimately be the fair contribution of the EU institutions. So there is still a lot to be done in the coming months. The good thing about this new shield, however, is that it gives us the stability that he gives us security. we need to deal well with these challenges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e18040	Next speaker: Member of the Council of Ministers of the European Communities. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e18061	Mr President. Appreciate Mr. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! I would particularly like to welcome the members of the Academic Group of the Lower Austrian Farmers' Federation, who attend the discussion today! [[Congratulation of the Abg. Grillich and other representatives of the ÖVP and the Agg. Dr. Rosenkranz.]] To whom would it really be useful if we didn't lift up the rescue shield? . Everyone who opposes the euro, other economic areas which, of course, have an advantage in relation to the euro, and especially speculators who would bet on the miseries of individual states. Do you really want to do their work? I believe that as an example, the discussion that was held when Austria was very busy in connection with the eastern participations and Mr Krugman and Co on behalf of the international financial industry, especially the American, and the Austrian banks, have written down Austria, which has made credit rating bad. [[Abg. Dr. Königshofer: World Conspiracy!]] It was our Minister of Finance Josef Pröll, whom I would like to convey from this point of view, the best request for recovery, who has tirelessly ensured that we can secure these markets for the future. What happened in the final effect? – The criticism has been revised, Austria is well established, and we remain in these markets. But what would have happened if we had not been part of this great community, but had we been played on the wall as a single little country? The euro as a Community currency is extremely important for Austria. For the often drawn comparison with Greece and the question of what would happen if a country collapsed when a country went into bankruptcy: It is mainly about the domino effect that Austria would cause massive damage. The entire EU area has ever better economic data. The basic data are solid. You say in your inquiry that 4,5 billion € you should not use for the coral tunnel, but better. – That’s what I have to say, a milkmaid bill! Since joining the EU, we have received over €17 billion for infrastructure and other services in our country. Exports have tripled, which not only improves growth in our country, but also, above all, ensures prosperity and, therefore, social peace. We have also been able to create 300 000 jobs. Our country today pays half as high an interest rate as before accession to the EU, and we do not have a price risk in export transactions, which is extremely important for 60 percent of exports in our economic performance. The European Stability Mechanism needs appropriate financial resources in order to be able to provide stability and, above all, to provide security to all countries that have debt – and that is not just crisis countries – so that states do not have to face daily re-evaluation of their credit quality by non-governmental bodies. This is about planning security and, above all, the security of Austrian savers, because it is the responsibility of the state to ensure the security and stability of money.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e18104	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Königshofer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e18125	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! What is being created here with the new rescue shield, with the European stabilisation mechanism, is completely putting the principles of the European monetary, monetary and financial system on the head. Ladies and gentlemen, let us go back to the beginning of the euro and remember what principles and criteria were formulated at the time – the so-called Maastricht criteria. Even in the creation of the euro, countries which have missed these Maastricht criteria were taken in. For example, I recall Italy and Belgium with more than 100 percent of GDP of public debt. They were taken in because they could not be left out as founding members of the EEC. That was the first mistake that we were criticised by the liberals and many others at the time. Another mistake was to include also weak countries such as Greece. Greece and its credit quality have not been properly examined. Today we know that with the help of the American investment bank Goldman Sachs has hidden debt in billions from the EU and the inspectors. – Greece has also been taken in. As a result, these countries had a huge interest rate advantage with the introduction of the euro. The interest rates had been drastically reduced. Italy alone saved €78 billion in interest in 1999, the first year after the annual introduction of the euro. This has, of course, animated these countries to continue making debts because the money was cheap. So it came, as it had to come, and in May last year, this led Greece to stand just ahead of the state pleite. The Greeks were so generous and bought with the cheap money of the European banks the largest tank army in Western Europe. They bought submarines and fighters, and eventually this led to the bankruptcy of the state. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: Maybe the Darabos can now buy cheaply!]] We, the other euro-states, had to come to the aid of the Greeks in an emergency action. That was the first break. Four months after the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon, this Treaty was first broken by the EU countries because Article 125, the No-Bail-Out clause, has been removed. In addition, a so-called rescue shield has been developed, a temporary rescue shield, with € 750 billion. Then came the next state that had become insolvent because it took over the debts of its banks, namely Ireland. Ireland received 85 billion € from this lifeguard. Ireland will have to save around €3 billion a year in the next few years and pay €5 billion in interest. – There are already 2 billion € each year, and five are 10 billion €. And then still €85 billion from Ireland will have to be repaid. – No one believes that, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The French Minister of Finance Christine Lagarde presented this quite simply. She said that these €85 billion keep Ireland over water for three years. – And that will be the truth. Ladies and gentlemen, now we have to decide on a permanent euro protection shield or the government has already promised to do so. Mr Bundeskanzler, I would like to ask you to: Your promise reminds you that you, together with your colleague Gusenbauer, gave two years ago to the “Kronen Zeitung”. I wrote you a letter. You wrote to the “Kronen Zeitung” at the time when changes in the contract affect important interests of Austria, you will have a referendum held. This is happening now, because with this liability shield, you are manoeuvring us, our children and our children into a liability whose extent is not yet foreseeable. This is an essential obstacle to Austrian interests. Mr Bundeskanzler, that is why I ask you to stand by your promise. Hold a referendum and ask the Austrians if they want it or not! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e18181	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Matznetter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e18202	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. State Secretary! Mrs. State Secretary! There is an old joke – to return to Werner Kogler and the economic question: Why did the dear God create economists? – The answer to this is: So that meteorologists are not alone in their difficult forecasts. [[Abg. Grill: No one understood the joke!]] [[State Secretary Mag. Arbitrator: Oh yes!]] Therefore, instead of searching for forecasts, it is beneficial to look at the past in order to learn from them. We looked into the abyss when we came to the focus of the financial markets in 2009. I think it was Mr Muckenschlager and the colleague, Mr Muttonen, who had already pointed this out. [[Rejoicing]] [[Abg. Grillitsch: Beautiful muck beater!]] [[Abg. Bucher: Ah, that was the joke!]] At that time, we were exposed to an unjustified speculation, which, within days, led to a rise in the refinancing rates for Austrian debt without a fundamental economic justification. Do you know who helped us back then, ladies and gentlemen, who reject the creation of the ESM? – In reality, it was Europe! The increase of €25 billion to €50 billion has made sure that there was peace in the markets. We've been shown to be behind it. So last week, the Heads of Government made the most reasonable thing you can do. In fact, they have sent the ESM a signal that the picking out of individuals for speculative reasons will not return in the future. This prevents a billion-dollar business. Mr Kogler has already, in part, already begun to tell you that it has been for months. I want to tell you exactly how this works. Take a country where there are doubts as to whether it will continue to be such a good debtor – in this case Greece, with no more different values than another European Member State. Because here are the Carinthian friends: It was a certain Karl-Heinz Grasser who, for example, for the year... – Well, don't show up! [[Abg. Bucher points towards ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Bucher: (on the respective segments in the semi-round) We are BZÖ! There's the BZÖ! There's the FPÖ, here's the BZÖ, and there's the ÖVP!]] The Karl-Heinz Grasser, nominated by FPÖ, reported a deficit of 1.6 percent for 2005. Do you know how high it was afterwards? – 4.4 percent! We were still lucky that 2007 was corrected because this would have been a great opportunity for the CDS speculators since 2009. You buy CDS in a country, even though you don't have any demands. The spreads are rising by purchasing the CDS alone, thus increasing the value of the papers, and the whole becomes a self-fulfilled prophecy. This is a billion-dollar business that was hunted for Greece first, then Ireland, now Portugal, and would not be the ESM, also Spain. If it goes well in Spain, Austria could get along just as well. [[Abg. Bucher: I only know the problem from the BAWAG, that's what we've dealt with there!]] Austria does not even have to have worse data than today. Therefore, the most reasonable thing that this European Union can do is do what it does: We give the financial markets a clear signal. No one will be shot by us from now on. The best thing the Heads of Government could do is to prevent additional costs caused by these speculations. If someone does not believe this, may he ask in Asia – in Malaysia, in Thailand, in Indonesia – how these countries did in 1998: Essentially excellent values, growth rates close to 10 percent, hardly any foreign debt – and yet they were removed from the speculation wave in 48 to 60 hours. The Japanese were able to resist because in principle they did exactly the same thing we do in Europe. We show the markets: We'll get you on your feet! – That's why it's the most reasonable thing we do. [[Abg. Scheibner: We didn't do that!]] Perhaps a supplement to Mr Stadler and to Mr Hypo, because he spoke about the new management of the bank. Mr Krainer has already told us what is being done. I want to tell you in numbers. Out of the €1.58 billion loss in 2009 and €1.6 billion loss in 2010 more than €2.9 billion was due to the management of a certain Jörg Haider and his consortia. If one were to leave you the Republic, we would be the first cadets at the ESM, because this administration would mean for our Republic that we would need €40 billion. In this sense, the ESM is also a guarantee that our country, if these gentlemen once come under responsibility, at least does not have to go down. Mr Bundeskanzler, in this sense: A right decision, a reasonable measure and a safeguarding of Austrian interests – I believe that is what voters expect from everyone, by the way, from the BZÖ. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e18365	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Haider. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e18388	Mr President. Gentlemen on the government bank! High house! Deutsche Postbank referred to “debt rate” as “debt rate” when the ECB’s money was cut by 1 per cent and then paid it to the Greeks by 10 per cent. Credit replacement business – a substitute for the fact that the companies in their own country are no longer credited, but that the money is given by 10 per cent to the Greeks, 9 per cent of the rebbachs, and then – every business business student knows in the first semester that higher interest rates also mean higher risk – when this risk hits, goes to the finance ministers, stops hands and says: Minister of Finance, cover our risk! – They have acted like the magic apprentices, these super high-paid bankers with a million year’s pace. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In a negligent manner, while neglecting any commercial duty of care, those who took part in the casino have set themselves on black, and it has just come red. Then they went to the States and said: Take over our losses, and the super state controllers – one we see behind me on the government bank – have actually opened up the money exchange of taxpayers. Now all citizens are liable for the debts of these banks. Unfortunately, the citizen is now a real guarantee and payer for the debts of these soccers. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[The speaker places a board on the speaker's desk, on which a national credit card is shown, which is filled out as follows: Account number Client – 08/15, amount – 3000 €, Client – A. Österreicher, Recipient – Bank-Zocker, purpose of use – Banker-Boni.]] If the €22 billion liability – €17 billion liability plus €2.2 billion you decided last week, plus €2.7 billion we already paid last year, i.e. more than €22 billion, you can start printing tickets right now. Every Austrian, from the infant to the giant, in recent months you have been indebted with €3,000 – not for Greece, Mrs. Collaborin Muttonen, but for the bankers, the soccer, the excavators, the excavators, so that they can get the bonuses. For this you have spent the money of the Austrians! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The commitments made by the Minister of Finance to the large banks over the last few years, of course, excluding Parliament, with the greatest disregard for democratic rules, are nothing else, ladies and gentlemen, as a transfer of prosperity, away from Austria – no, Mrs Muttonen, not to Greece! – the shareholders, the dividend recipients, the Bonikassians of the European large banks. That's what you did! I'm perfectly clear that the ÖVP is playing there. It's amazing to me, though, that the SPÖ is playing there. It is also surprising that of these full-bodied announcements to introduce new rules, nothing is left at all, and the old game continues to rejoice and celebrate joyous originals. Separation of business and investment banks? - Misachieved! Don't talk about it! Prohibition or at least clear rules on highly speculative financial laws? - Get away from the table, we don't need to! Faymann, watch Pröll. Austria is already being held hostage for the next crisis, and it is destined. This cabinet of Faymann/Pröll will go into history – into history as an economic Sargnagel of Austria. This government is truly unique throughout Europe in its failures and in its dilettantism. You remain a single option, ladies and gentlemen: The entire cabinet should migrate to North Africa, where some states are urgently seeking new governments. The only problem I see is that after a few years Faymann/Pröll may be too little sand in the Sahara. But Austria would at least be saved.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e18470	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote. The vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Dr. Johannes Hübner, colleagues, on the possibility of exclusion from monetary union and referendum on the amendment of the Rules of Procedure. 136 TFEU. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. [[17:41:40]] The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e18519	I take the negotiations on the 7th. Agenda item again. Mr Dipl.-Ing. Dr. Pirklhuber. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e18543	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Return to Agenda item 7 on misinformation on the Internet, in particular in the field of health and food matters, following the debate that began before the urgent question was dealt with: In Internet forums, in social networks, in weblogs, misclaims are repeatedly made, for example as regards the Codex Alimentarius. It was claimed that genetic engineering is already everywhere and that at international level everything is done to end, chill, so to speak, and open the door and door to all evil and bad. This is often not the case, however, ladies and gentlemen at the gallery! It is true that sometimes unfounded errors circulate. The five-party request, which is now under negotiation, is trying to develop a procedure, because the consumers, the interested people, the interested ones are reporting themselves to the Members, want to inform, and often it takes quite a lot of effort to dissuade the failures in order to get the necessary information. This five-party request – we also support it – refers to a coordinated collection. Federal Minister Stöger is invited to take action at European level to ensure that EFSA, the European Food Safety Authority, clears, looks and documents this misinformation and provides the Member States with answers. We are in favour of this request, but – and now it comes – Mr Stöger, and now I would be very interested that you listen briefly to me, as far as EFSA is concerned, there are indeed really clear criticisms that we have formulated for years, also in other areas, especially as regards risk assessment. EFSA is actually a paperman, sitting in Parma and usually only checking paper, applications from companies et cetera. Mr Federal Minister, it would also be very important to finally implement, at European level, the resolution of the Environment Council of December 2008. The health commissioner Dalli is now responsible for this. He would be responsible for the fact that EFSA finally carries out a serious risk analysis in the way we imagine that long-term trials on allergies and allergy risks are finally being introduced in order to examine genetically modified constructions and not to speak in advance to the companies, so to speak, so to speak, and thus to promote genetic contamination in food. On this occasion, Mr. Federal Minister, once again and again: The limits currently decided in the Standing Committee on the Food Chain and Animal Health, namely to allow 0.1% of illegal genetic engineering constructions in feed, are unacceptable. I would therefore ask you from this point of view to oppose this resolution, against which the Commission has decided to raise your word, oppose it and prevent it from being put into practice. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e18586	Next speaker: Mr Dolinschek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e18607	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My previous speaker has said the essential thing to say about the dissemination of misinformation. Through the Internet, the dissemination possibilities of mass emails have almost doubled as well as chain letters, in any case enormously increased, and this is a bar to suggest. Mr Federal Minister, with this five-party request you are asked to take measures to inform the public and to cooperate at European level. I think we should also take legal measures to prevent this, because the Internet users are totally unsure because misinformation on food, vitamins, medicines and food supplements is hardly demented from the state. That is, as it were, the problem. Mr Federal Minister, I wish you every success in implementing this in Europe.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e18640	Next speaker: Mr Preiner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e18662	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Modern media are a colorful world, as we know. Mobile phones, internet and smartphones can hardly be thought away from our daily lives. Unfortunately, however, there are still people who misuse these new technologies. Some parade examples of this have already been shown, such as Cold Calling, unwanted advertising calls, or even the mass emails that come unsolicited into our inboxes, or also “technical grandsons” of the former newspapers, called Hoax, that is, false messages that have now been sent over the web, unfortunately are considered true by many and are thus sent forth in good faith to friends and acquaintances. Apart from that, a Hoax also produces a correspondingly dense data traffic, which inhibits the lines. Hoaxes are particularly concerned about health issues, because very often the content is taken unreflected for cash, such as the threat of alternative remedies, to conspiracy theories of the pharmaceutical industry. Ladies and gentlemen, let me say briefly: Of course, all these claims are nonsense and lack any material basis! Instead, under the Codex, EU countries are committed to a globally mandatory labelling of genetically modified foods, for information and for the better protection of consumers. Of course, it is clear that many people remain insecure once a false report has been made. Therefore, in my opinion, we are also entirely right to decide on this five-party request, which asks the Minister of Health to use at EU level for a collection, analysis and concrete information on such misreports on food and nutrition on the Internet. Ladies and gentlemen. Chain letters and hoaxes are not an adequate medium for communicating serious concerns.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e18701	Next speaker: Madam President, I should like to thank you for your support. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e18722	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Looking back in history, one sees that there have always been people who have exploited the light faith of seeking help from fellow humans. For example, they used their fears, some of them used a hoax, so they had a good time, and they turned the truth a little bit. The fact that this is much easier and much faster in the age of the digital network makes things very difficult. Health and beauty are at the top of many people's personal wish list. They are willing to spend a lot of money on it, and they unfortunately get their information not only from professionals but also from the World Wide Web. There it is possible to find information on all health and beauty topics. However, the seriousness of the information is relatively difficult to understand. For example, on health issues you can find information from citizens, researchers, pharmaceutical companies, practitioners, as well as self-proclaimed experts and, of course, criminals, and there is a very difficult distinction for the laymen. TU Berlin has established a Hoaxes directory, which lists the false messages on the one hand and on the other hand also gives explanations. There are chain letters, in which one actually says common sense, what one has to think of them. But people who are in emergency situations are simply for assistance from the net, for advice very sensitive and therefore very often willing victims. There are, for example, very many proposals in cancer therapy, for example, as regards the active substance Amygdalin from the Bittermandel. This is supposed to be a cure, but there is no serious knowledge at all. scientific evidence that Amygdalin is helping. On the contrary, the intake of this amygdalin, which contains blue acid, can even lead to death. In other words, supranational processing and research, listing and information of Member States in relation to these hoaxes are therefore desirable and necessary. However, I would say that it is also equally necessary to bring people knowledge of health issues, of serious knowledge, of various channels, and then to strengthen people's confidence in serious and tried-and-tested institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e18765	Next speaker: Member of the jury. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e18786	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, on this discussion of the criminal energies in the network regarding healthy food, with regard to healthy medicinal products, it should be noted that the EFSA, the European food supervision, is actually a very toothless tiger. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grillitic.]] – Mr Grillitsch, you are the great specialist in this matter, with your farmers with healthy food. [[Abg. Grill: Are they not healthy, the food that farmers produce?]] You are insanely imagining great opportunities, especially the ÖVP. [[Abg. Hear: Hello, hello, hello!]] Yes, very great opportunities do you understand in this discussion. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This European food monitoring also has such a criminal energy and a lobbyist history as it seems to be going and going on at the ÖVP. If you know that the President of this European Food Supervision, Diána Bánáti, is sitting on the Board of Directors of the International Life Sciences Institute Europe, which is accused of greenpeace lobbying for the genetic engineering industry by October 2010, you know how to work here. And if you know that no single application for a genetically modified plant has been rejected since Mrs Bánáti's presidency – which is why the EU's green mood has also been made at European level; in Austria this has gone by the Greens – then you have to say that this initiative is very good and that this "talkless tiger" at European level, this food supervision needs to be restructured once so that it can stand up to an ethical and morally impeccable review. Mr Minister, I urge you to work for the Austrian people, for our youth, for the future at European level.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e18842	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote. Vote on the resolution attached to the Committee's report 1109 of the Supplements. I would ask those Members who are in favour of this to be a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 149.) [[17:56:07]] 8. Point Report by the Committee on Consumer Protection on Amendment No 1314/A(E) by Mr Mag. Johann Maier, Gabriele Tamandl, colleagues on “Bisphenol A in articles of use (food contact materials and articles)” (1110 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e18899	I'll call the 8. Agenda item. The first honourable Member to speak is Mr Magistrate. Gaßner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e18923	Mr President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! - What do you mean, Mr Grillitsch? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grillitic.]] [[Abg. Grill: Are you talking about cages now?]] Look out, you'll hear what I'm talking about. Ladies and gentlemen, be honest! Did you know until this request what Bisphenol A is? – I confess I didn’t know. Thanks to the work in the Consumer Protection Committee and thanks to the lively research of our Jacky Maier, I have come to believe that this bisphenol A is actually a very dangerous matter. It is a product you need to harden plastic objects to make them usable, but it is very toxic by the use, by the abrasion, by swimming or by the resolution. It has been said that this is a problem for infants, for infants, for infants, for example in bottles, for snouts. As a provocative grandfather, I immediately asked myself what this is like. – In fact, the latest products sold – as I looked at them last week – are already on top of it: 0 per cent BAP. [[Abg. Grill: What does that mean?]] BPA, that's bisphenol A. And for this our Federal Minister is to thank that it has happened so quickly that at least this is no longer contained in these products. The fact that it can still be contained and contained in toys, in all other matters relating to children is to be amended by this motion for a resolution. The Federal Minister may continue to do so in such a way that it is prevented in Europe and therefore, of course, also in Austria, and in addition also a maximum limit for all other areas where this bisphenol A is still present. I am firmly convinced that more control – I am not talking about self-responsibilities of large businesses; I have yet another example of the fact that there is no such thing – is absolutely necessary in these cases. Self-reliance is a very own problem. There is a press release by Global from December of last year, indicating that Nestlé, one of the largest food producers, has forbidden to use for the packaging, for the inner part of the packaging of this bisphenol A – but only in the USA, not in Austria! That's why I'm wondering. Nestlé is based on the fact that it would be a cultural difference. Mr Federal Minister, it is high time for clear guidelines to be drawn up. We ask you, with this joint request, that this will no longer endanger us and our children in the future. And it will also be good for my colleague Grillitsch if this poison is no longer contained in his devices with which he plays.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e18993	Next speaker: Mr Höfinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e19015	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, it's true, Bisphenol A is a daily chemical that you can hardly really get out of the way. It is in many useful products, which are available and in use every day for both toddlers and adults and are used in many forms. [[Intrusions of the Abg. Grillitic.]] When you start with the baby, when you are a infant, you find that she is inside many bottles, it is contained in plasticware, in thermo paper, in cash registers and much more. However, the wound point is that, although the end products are largely organically inert, that means that the end products do not actually pose a threat to health by diffunding bisphenol A. All the more so, this diffundation, this release, when the objects are connected with heat, is especially with boiling water. The value of diffundation increases by 55 times, and if you see the connection that often there are dishes for children, toddlers, such as drinking cups et cetera, where warm, partly cooking liquids are filled in, then there is really extreme caution. It's a game we know: Notable manufacturers vehemently argue that there are health-related links, but more and more international studies suggest that both food intake and skin contact can cause health impairments. They are supposed to be very serious, from fertility disorders to diabetes to cardiovascular problems and much more. A large, representative study has recently been presented by the University of Michigan. The fact that this is really recognized by us also shows that from 1st century onwards it is already known that it is the first time that we have been able to do so. ==References====External links== In June of this year, the sale of baby bottles in Europe is prohibited. It testifies to increasing sensitivity and responsibility in this area. All these findings show us that we need to act very attentively in the future. I am therefore particularly pleased that this motion for a resolution has been put forward as a clear mission to continue to work on this issue at European level. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e19058	Mr Vock. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e19079	Mr President. Minister! High house! Mr Gaßner, I am surprised that you have only heard of the bisphenol, because it was on 23 March. September 2009, here in the National Council, unanimously decided on a request to the Minister of Health to launch a priority action within the framework of the AGES, to initiate an investigation of the substance bisphenol A on the market, to verify appropriate migration values and to carry out a risk assessment through the AGES. That means that this has already been known to us in Parliament in September 2009. You missed in September 2009 so to speak, so to speak, that you are indignant with it. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: The minister responded, I said, didn't he?]] The Minister has responded, yes, but it is interesting that the resolution does not mention the AGES study, but it is said that, according to Global 2000 and other NGOs, it was assessed primarily. I do not like to say that as much as I appreciate these NGOs and their work, the process of making legislative texts based on the views of NGOs and passing on scientific studies. The scientific studies should be made the basis for a law. That NGOs are causing us to study, I find it positive, but not that we are making laws, because some NGOs do not like something – I would miss it a little. There is no reason for this anyway, because there is also the study of the German Federal Environment Agency – not anyone – which says that there are knowledge gaps that there is a sufficient potential for concern. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: That's enough, isn't it?]] This is a recommendation to take precautionary action, but there has also been no risk of study. The European Food Authority EFSA is currently conducting a study with a re-evaluation of all documents. Even there is the study in work, i.e. the scientific foundations would not be really convincing. But what convinced me – and now we are right there, on behalf of Parliament, and the Minister has implemented that – is the AGES study. The reasons in this request would not be enough for us, but of course we have also read the AGES study carefully, and the possibility of health risk – the possibility alone! – is reason enough to accept this request.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e19129	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Pirklhuber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e19151	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! The colleagues Vock, Gässner and Höfinger have already explained in detail and correctly what this joint five-party application is all about. Of course, we agree and think it is right, right and important that we take a line here together in the interests of consumers and consumers. Ladies and gentlemen, perhaps some daytime, since the Federal Minister Stöger is also responsible for this area. You may already have heard that the EU Commission has reached 25 years of age. In March 2011, a special regulation was adopted to import Japanese food in the future. Ladies and gentlemen, a brief information about this: In this EU implementing Regulation 297/2011, the Commission – and this is already proposing the ground to the barrel – explicitly proposes to be able to continue to import food from those regions and prefectures in Japan, which have been contaminated and destroyed by the catastrophic nuclear accident. That's the first point. The Commission also intends to introduce higher limits on these imports. – This is really incredible, ladies and gentlemen! This means that a product from the prefectures of Fukushima and others may be imported if, in relation to radionuclides Iod-131, Caesium-134 and Caesium-137, the maximum values specified in Council Regulation Euratom 3954/87 of 22. In December 1987 it was established that it was not exceeded. This means that the Commission has put in place maximum values which would be relevant to the case of a super-GAU in Europe – a regulation that has never been effective in this form. You, Federal Minister Stöger, are now really more than required to take this implementing regulation back immediately. It cannot be that this is in the sense of consumer expectations or that the living consumer protection is. If Commissioner Dalli says so, please, then consumer protection in Europe really ceases. I would be very curious, Minister of State, how you comment. I've been waiting for you to comment on this, so far I haven't seen anything, for example, in the APA. Perhaps you will take the opportunity to explain how you appreciate this and also what steps you intend to take. Ladies and gentlemen, you have to break this on your tongue: For special foods, limit values of 20,000 becarel or more than 12,000 becarel are required – a becarel is a breakdown per second – and the current value for all European food is 600! This is so absurd as to be done in the context of the European food safety policy, which I cannot understand. If the Commission is not clear, Mr Federal Minister, I would ask you to develop your own solution for Austria, because it is fast and fast to act so that consumers are not insecure. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e19199	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Spadiut. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e19220	Mr President. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr Gaßner – is he still there? –, only for understanding: Bisphenol does not serve to harden plastic bottles, but is a softener. Bisphenol A is used as a cheaper raw material in plastic production, in children's toys, children's bottles, snouts. The use of this industrial chemical in baby bottles has now been banned, children's toys and schnullers will hopefully still follow. The reduction of the limit values of bisphenol A for materials and articles intended to come into contact with foods, such as kettles, plasticware, drinking cups and so on, as required in the application, is of course part of the BZÖ. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] However, there is another problem: A few days ago, the magazine “The Consumer” tested cassazettl from twelve grocery stores, with the result that Bisphenol A is used in all cassazettes, as a thermal coating. The sales staff and the consumer come into contact with these cash desks daily. Since the National Institute of Agricultural Research in France has demonstrated that the chemical is also absorbed via the skin, it should be assumed that Bisphenol A enters the human organism via the cassazette. With regard to long-term effects, but also with regard to the dose caused by consequential damage in the organism, science strikes in the dark. It is only certain that Bisphenol A has a hormone-like effect, by which according to the Institute for Environmental Hygiene of the Medical University of Vienna the number of prostate and breast cancers Immune system disorders generally increase. This is probably a good reason to ban Bisphenol A in general.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e19266	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Maier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e19287	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I join my previous speaker, Mr Spadiut, in principle, and would like to refer to the discussion in Europe, but also to those in Austria that have been triggered by the Consumer Information Association. The VKI highly criticized Bisphenol A in cassavas, and now it comes: There are companies – I call them – that have already voluntarily changed, but there are a number of companies that have not changed the thermal paper. SPAR alone is currently converting the cash registers on BPA-free paper in Austria; REWE and Hofer are looking for alternatives. There's nothing to hear from other big markets. High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I think we should take a very close look at whether these companies are able to change voluntarily. If it fails on a voluntary basis, Mr Federal Minister, we can discuss whether we are not creating a ban on this area. High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The discussion has already pointed out that it is not only about the production and in-trafficking of infant bottles, calming cleaners and bite rings, but also about the application. We want the limit values of bisphenol A for materials and articles intended to come into contact with food to be reduced and advocate a general ban on bisphenol A in all articles for children up to the third year of life. I would like to thank the members of the Consumer Protection Committee for their constructive cooperation on this issue.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e19324	Mr Stöger, Federal Minister, is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e19346	Mr President. High house! [[Abg. Grillitsch:... Minister, don't lie to us!]] I am concerned to make it clear once again that, from the Austrian point of view, the Commission has been able to ask the infant bottles to do something, and that has already been implemented. That's in Austria with 14. ==References====External links== We have also tried to make a regulation for Austria in the context of the notification procedure in a second area, namely the use of children's contact substances. This is currently with the European Union. I have a term of five years. May. If this period is not extended, if there is no factual reason for the European Union, I will be prohibiting it in Austria after 5. May be implemented. Allow me to address Mr Pirklhuber's question. It is quite clear that the European Union has set limits on food from Japan, which has taken place. Austria has not agreed to my arrangement of this provision, because I also assume that we do not have a disaster in Europe, so there is no acceptable Austrian position. We stayed in the minority there, of course. Three countries have represented our position. However, I have clearly and clearly arranged that food coming from Japan will be controlled to 100 percent. That's what makes pressure. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Gahr.]] We know, ladies and gentlemen, that very few foods come to us from Japan. The foods that come directly to us have been checked, because there is no radiation whatever. I think the current food is safe.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e19390	No further words are available here. I therefore conclude the debate. We shall vote on the resolution attached to the Committee's report 1110 of the Supplements. I ask you for a sign of approval. – This is unanimously decided and therefore adopted. (E 150.) [[18:16:56]] 9. Point Report by the Committee on Consumer Protection on amendment 1315/A(E) by Mr Mag. Johann Maier, Gabriele Tamandl, colleagues in relation to ‘Azofarbstoffen in Großen’ (1111 a.k.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e19442	We're coming to the 9th. Agenda item. I call Mr Spindelberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e19466	Ladies and gentlemen, I must admit quite honestly when I first had the amendment 1315/A(E) in my hands and read the word ‘Azofarbstoffen’, I thought: What did Jacky Maier make for an application? – This is actually just about synthetically produced food dyes. I also thought: What the hell is this? The dyes are all inside, whether in sweets, fruit canneds, lemonades, pudding or ice cream. – There can't be anything behind it, and that can't be bad. But I have become thoughtful for the first time, when I then inquired of what these azo colours are ever obtained from. I found out that in the past this was produced from coal-coal and is now a chemical reaction for which oil is needed. The alarm bells started to cry out for the first time, because innumerable studies, which I then looked at more closely, have found that these Azocolors are triggering allergies. In part, these dyes are even predicted to be carcinogenic. In this context, the European system is simply too little for me that these colorful sweets have only been particularly marked at European level since July 2010. There are some vague warnings. I see this with my own grandchildren. They first grab these colorful sugars, fruit gums and all these rubber snakes because children like this banging color. Almost half of these sweets, which are produced especially for children, have such azo colours, which are very, very, very risky in themselves. But such ingredients, which cause intolerant reactions such as rashes, were not only found in sweets, but according to VKI in addition also in 16 pastries, and in these pastries there is some extremely dangerous mix. Not only in sweets, such as biscuits, pudding or syrup, which is coloured, is that contained, but also – and I didn't know – in mustard or in melt cheese you can find these dyes. Since I now know that the additives not only cause allergies, but also are suspected of strengthening children’s problems with concentration and hyperactivity, the European warning note “can limit children’s activity and attention” helps me relatively little. That is why I appeal to you, Minister: Although there is currently no sufficient evidence of the link between the consumption of azo dyes and health damage, these azo dyes for food have to be banned throughout the EU, because for me the health of people, especially children, is more than the profits of a few fewer food groups.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e19517	Next speaker: Mrs Hellerer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e19539	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, For me, the azo dyes are not as new as they were for my previous speakers, Mr Spindelberger, because the farmers are very intensive in dealing with the ingredients in the food and have even published their own e-numbers directory, where all the food contents that are provided with e-numbers are listed and, of course, the corresponding use is also registered. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stefan]] This directory has already been out of date for the second time. This means that consumers want to know exactly what they want in this area. It is already true that the bright red fruit gums, the green red lugs and light yellow sugars are very much accepted by the children, but they are often coloured with artificial dyes when they are so colorful. As already mentioned, the warnings on the packaging of these foods and sweets have been issued since 20. ==References== “Can affect children’s activity and attention”, read there. The reason for this is that there is a suspicion that the consumption of these artificial dyes can change the behavior of children. This means that this Zappelphilipp syndrome can be triggered by azocolorants. Any third so colorful food may be supplied with one or more of the ingredients affecting health. What dyes are these? – These are tartrazin, yellow boron S, quinolingelb, if I can only quote some of them. And these are often indicated in the ingredients list with e-numbers: E 102, E 104 and so on. A total of six synthetically produced bunkers are found mainly in sweets, but also in puddings, ready-made soups, cheese and incense fish. It's at the door of Easter: These special bunkers are also included in the cold colours. They are among the most important groups of dyes used in food. They are used because they cause such intense coloring because they are light-, acid- and heat-stable and especially very cheap in manufacturing. These dyes are suspected of triggering allergies or even being carcinogenic. A 2007 British study concluded that they can have a negative impact on the behaviour of children. This issue was then also discussed intensively in the EU Parliament and a ban on artificial dyes was considered. However, the European Food Safety Authority, EFSA, found evidence of such health damage insufficient, therefore only a labelling requirement could be adopted. However, consumers do well to conform to this labelling requirement. There are alternatives, some manufacturers already use natural colours – i.e. fruit colours or plant colors – to color the foods that are perfectly safe. Consumers should also know this. Therefore, this motion for a resolution by the Federal Minister for Health, in particular the Ministers responsible, including the Minister for Agriculture, calls for the establishment of a database in the AGES, which lists these products which are free of azo colours. The Minister of Health is also invited to work at EU level to examine a ban on azocolours in food.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e19593	Next speaker: Mr Dipl.-Ing. Dr. Pirklhuber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e19614	Ladies and gentlemen! I can support Mr Hellerer's statement seamlessly. I really want to report positively that this newly established – as long as it does not yet exist – consumer protection committee is bringing one or another to new discussion culture. Of course, this also has to do with how the other side – in this case the Minister – acts. And I would also like to say, appreciatively: We have had a good discussion in the Committee. This is also important and necessary for consumers. One small thing, Mrs Hellerer: In this case, however, the Minister for Agriculture is not required, but if I read it carefully, the Federal Minister for Labour, Social Affairs and Consumer Protection and the Federal Minister for Health, next to the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs, Family and Youth. [[Abg. Hellerer: Yes!]] These three ministries are explicitly addressed in the application. As I said, the ban is in itself appropriate because there are alternatives. Mr Hellerer has rightly pointed out the plant colours. Ladies and gentlemen, this is actually the chance of biology, biological methods, in the widest sense of food production. Also, Austria should be a pioneer, because the other side, the food industry, these means, the azo dyes, is using them for one reason: because, as Mr Hellererer mentioned, she is coloring very strongly and of course – the cost argument! – very cheap, industrial-technical raw materials are. Unfortunately, this is the case with many other formulations, ladies and gentlemen; the replacement of sugar and many other things that seem to look good at the first moment, with which so-called light products are produced, but which actually contain more health-critical ingredients than the original products. That too can happen. So, in this sense, a good joint resolution. Let me also address a few of the things that we should look at in the near future, namely the question of game meat or the things related to it, namely the artificial ham, which is produced with enzymes, transglutaminases. Another question would be – perhaps we can discuss this at one of the next committee meetings: There are also rules at EU level for the labelling of enzymes. This is becoming more and more a subject, and I am convinced that we should also be more rigorous in this regard. On the verge still: In a food segment, much less, much less e-numbers are used, namely in organic foods. There we have a maximum of around 60 permitted e-numbers, namely substances that are often produced from plants, while there are in themselves several hundred. This is also a signal for which direction it can and should go. And just before Easter: The ovaries are regulated. In organic farming too, it is regulated across the EU that eggs should only be dyed with certain dyes. And you as consumers should consider this when shopping for eggs. These eggs do not look quite as radiant as those eggs colored with artificial colors and painted eggs, but they are healthy, they are better and they are environmentally compatible. So decide. In this case, if you were for organic eggs, I'd mean – we're just standing in front of Easter. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e19651	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Spadiut. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e19672	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Indeed, almost everything has been said about Azozarbstoffen. It is only to be added that many azocolour substances are no longer authorised for food because of their toxic and carcinogenic effect and that EU Directive 2002/61 prohibits the use in foodstuffs, for example in leather and textiles that may come into contact with the human skin or the mouth. Unfortunately, the EU was not to have a general ban. In order to provide the insured consumers with the opportunity to find out which products are free of azo dyes, this database will be installed for information purposes. I hope that this database will also be sufficiently advertised and that consumers will be sufficiently informed about how they can get to this database. We agree with this request. However, this should not prevent the Minister from continuing to work for a general ban at EU level. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e19703	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e19726	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In the context of the azocolours, the previous speakers referred primarily to food. We encounter these problematic dyes, but also in many other areas, such as wood, paper and textiles. It has already been pointed out in the British study that children have had a particularly striking behaviour after eating these dyes. Last but not least, this study is also responsible for the fact that the European Union, in a response to the fact that food supplied with such synthetic dyes had to be provided with appropriate indications in the previous year. But problems are not always individual dyes per se, but possible interactions with other substances, such as substances with which pieces of clothing contaminated by body welding can be treated, which can also produce carcinogenic substances. Research is not yet very advanced in this field. There is still a wide, open field where it is important to be able to better identify these problems. At European level, while efforts are being made to reduce the maximum levels for azo dyes, there is no total ban. The aim of this proposal, therefore, is to invite the Minister of Health to work towards a possible total ban at European level and, on the other hand, to set up a database to list products without these dangerous dyes. It's possible. Bionutrients already use fruit and plant extracts as dyes. Finally, I would like to say that I believe it would be useful if we were to invest a lot of strength to raise consumers' awareness of these problems, because the best regulation for the market and the economy could undoubtedly be a sensitive and open consumer.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e19763	Next speaker: Mr Praßl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e19785	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! When a food dye is used to color foods, it is considered an additive and must be indicated in the list of ingredients under EU law either by its name or by its E-number. However, not all dyes are subject to this labelling requirement. ==References== In the European Union, food dyed with certain artificial dyes must be marked in July 2010 and must be accompanied by warnings. Food dyes have the effect of embellishing food to make it more attractive to all consumers. For children, the brightly colored sweets represent a great temptation. However, due to caution, these artificial food dyes are already very unpopular in some consumers. In any case, the use of such dyes would have to be questioned, and it must be noted that there would ultimately be alternatives. The behaviour of the European Commission against a ban is not conclusive from a consumer policy point of view. However, the labelling is welcome, since in the medium term, these distressing dyes will ultimately disappear from food. This will also help to transform the market and in the future, food manufacturers will consider a change in food coloring in order to improve the quality of food. In my opinion, this transparency is also very good, because in the future we will have to pay very close attention to the importance that will ultimately come to consumers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e19827	Next speaker: Mr Vock. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e19848	Mr President. Minister! High house! ==References== In the European Union, the food containing certain artificial dyes containing azocolourants must bear the following warning in July of the previous year: Can affect activity and attention in children. This is typical for the EU, typically for corporations: A warning note has been agreed, but it contains a very soft formulation like the above: Can affect activity and attention in children. I don't know if in view of their parents, they're panicking immediately and reacting to it. It would be much more interesting if, for example, it were: Suspected to trigger cancer and allergies. – This might be more interesting as a warning for parents. It is gratifying that, despite this softly formulated warning – and there you see, the industry always reacts when we decide on policy laws – some companies have already made a change. But for example, there are still fruit gums in the funniest colors. Of course, the EU has also come up with something, and the permitted daily intake has been reduced. That is to say, the children are now allowed to no longer wet 20 fruit gums, but only more than 18 or 17 or I do not know how many where the permitted amount is reached. I just don't know if the kid says by the nose: That's how many I can eat, and from now on it's harmful to me! I'm afraid no, but children just reach out, depending on their lust and mood. You might have to regulate this as a parent and say: You've got three pieces, you can't eat more than that, because otherwise the EU's maximum allowable quantity is exceeded! I think it's the right way we want it. Only: I am afraid in a group Europe where industrial interests are dominant, our ministers will be difficult to achieve. We are saying yes that we are creating an information database where we are positively informing which foods do not contain these substances. And we also say yes to the fact that you are acting as a minister at EU level. I wish you good luck. I'm just afraid it'll be unsuccessful!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e19901	No further words are available here. I'll close the debate. We shall now proceed to the vote. Vote on the resolution attached to the Committee's report 1111 of the Supplements. Whoever supports this, I ask for a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 151.) [[18:37:51]] 10. Point Report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on the Government Template (1029b._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the statutory audit quality assurance law (1126, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e19949	We're now on the 10th. Agenda item. The first honourable Member to speak is Mr Ing. Höbart. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e19973	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! High house! Right ahead: The FPÖ will not agree to this adaptation of the statutory audit quality assurance law, which was amended at the end of 2009 and which has now been contested by the Constitutional Court. That has a simple reason: Because we believe that these very strict criteria and the so-called quality standards primarily benefit the large, if not only the Top 4 audit firms and, above all, put massive pressure on individual companies and medium-sized business firms. It was our proposal that we limit this quality audit system to those audit firms that test internationally relevant companies such as banks and insurance companies. That would have been the FPÖ's proposal. The fact is that, on the one hand, every auditor enjoys a comprehensive training and on the other hand, he also conducts appropriate tests and is also personally liable, namely with the confirmation note. For this reason, from our point of view, these auditors do not necessarily need a so - called quality inspector, a kind of “beiwagerl”. Furthermore, the very expensive implementation of the documentation standards, as I mentioned earlier, means a very high amount of effort for smaller audit firms and even individual companies, and in our view it simply does not agree with this law.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e20010	Next speaker: Mr Steindl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e20031	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Höbart, especially in the banking sector, the last audits and the last bankruptcys we had in many areas – and I can still remember the Banking Committee – have shown how necessary and important a quality audit of the balance sheets is. Deficiencies have occurred as regards statutory audits and the legislator was therefore required to carry out appropriate quality assurance of the statutory audits and to increase the standards. If you are here today saying that the smaller and medium-sized audit firms do not have the opportunity to take over such contracts, I must tell you that medium-sized companies are doing a very large number of tests in the industrial and economic sectors. Of course, in the case of major audits, bank audits and so on, where auditors are also active, you have to be equipped accordingly, and small or medium-sized enterprises cannot take over such orders. But that is not what the small and medium-sized audit firms want. The occasion of our present government proposal is the fact that the Constitutional Court found some paragraphs unconstitutional. We have now rehabilitated these. Thus, there is now a constitutional regulation or law. This law extends the authority competence of the auditors accordingly. It will also improve international cooperation. And above all, this rule will ensure the independence of the auditors. From my point of view, the independence of these auditors is essential. In addition, the auditors, especially the bank auditors, are included in the list of auditors. I believe that we have created all the standards necessary for a quality audit. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e20073	Next speaker: Mr Hell. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e20095	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The main points have already been raised by my previous speakers. That's why I can take a short look. The aim of this government proposal is to reorganise the provisions of law which the Constitutional Court found unconstitutional. The main points are the expansion of authority competence, the strengthening of independence and the improvement of international cooperation. This innovation will also bring about a full implementation of the relevant EU directives and further harmonisation of the requirements for the audit. As already mentioned, we have a very high level of auditors and audit firms. In this context, however, the quality of the quality inspector himself is very important. Especially in recent economically difficult years, this standard and the high level of quality of auditors has proved to be the best. The tasks of the quality control authority are a very important priority in monitoring and developing the function of the relevant provisions. New tasks have been fixed. The Quality Control Authority now has further possibilities for review. This quality control authority also has a public register in which all auditors and audit firms are registered. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Trust and security are to be given with today's decision-making. I would therefore ask you to give your consent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e20146	Next speaker: Mr Widmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e20167	Mr President. High house! It will also be approved by the BZÖ for this novel. It is primarily a matter of complying with a constitutional court judgment. The statutory audit quality assurance law serves to control the auditors themselves. That means it's about: Who's checking the examiners? Who ensures the quality? I think that is very positive. At that time, this law was also developed by us as corulers. The new thing about this is that if you are a new auditor, you will receive the certificate for only 18 months and you will have to carry out an examination every three years in further proceedings. That is why we think it is essential to carry out an evaluation of this law after a few years and see whether it has proved itself in the new form or whether there are any disadvantages, especially for SMEs that are starting to re-establish, which one, should have to do so, will have to eliminate. In principle, the law will be very positive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e20205	Next speaker: Mrs Franz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e20226	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Experienced tax advisors and auditors ensure that we know about the economic situation of a company. We all want to confirm our confidence in a company and also the certainty that this trust is not shaken. As far as the law to ensure this security is concerned, namely the statutory audit quality assurance law, we have made essential new requirements for the auditors in its last revision, as mentioned above. For example, the duties of a auditor were more clearly recorded, and confidence in his activity and independence was strengthened. However, individual provisions of law have been repealed by the Constitutional Court as unconstitutional, which we now want to reorganise. In terms of content, the aim is to maintain the quality of the auditor by extending public authorities' competences and strengthening independence and improving international cooperation. I think that when we think about the many insolvencys and scandals – also in Austria – we have to conclude: It is important that international standards are given in the case of statutory audits. This is about a lot of money, and there are not only companies, but also taxpayers. That is why it is important that we adopt this law today. A quality control authority shall also be established to keep a register where approved auditors and approved audit organisations are listed. So there is more security and more quality, and that is positive, and that is why we are taking part in this law today.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e20268	Next speaker: Mr Kirchgatterer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e20290	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! In order to maintain the high level of economic location in Austria, it is necessary to ensure transparency and control in the area of statutory audits, for example in the case of credit institutions, insurance companies, pension funds. The relevant law was adopted unanimously in plenary in 2005 and amended in 2008. And the current adjustment was widely approved by the Committee. Regular external audit by auditors every three or six years is an essential point, which is also borne by the Board of Auditors, as well as the renewal, namely the inclusion of cooperative auditors for quality control by the Authority. The continuous training for which mandatory minimum hours are provided and which must be recorded in writing ensures the high-quality completion of the final audits. It is also important, as has already been pointed out at this item on the agenda today, that the auditors should be independent. Furthermore, the law regulates the appointment of quality auditors and the points to be included in the quality review report. It is also noted that the Working Committee on External Quality Audits should act exclusively in the public interest. Ladies and gentlemen! Especially in the economy, legal certainty is a very important asset and is often underestimated. It is of great importance to us in the heart of Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e20333	No further words are available here. I therefore conclude the debate. We come to the vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 1126 of the Supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this draft to be a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall come to the third reading. Whoever joins this draft in third reading, I ask for a sign. – This is decided by a majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[18:51:45]] 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on the Government Template (1073 D.B._Other Organiser Bundesgesetz, with which the Foreign Trade Act 2011 – AußHG 2011 is passed (1127 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e20384	We're on the 11th. Agenda item. Mrs Mag. Korun. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e20409	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Just a year ago, I put forward a motion for a resolution to improve and strengthen arms trade control. It is very gratifying that this request, although with a few downfalls, has found the majority – first in the Human Rights Committee and then in the National Council's plenary session. However, it is not at all acceptable that the government parties take this motion for a resolution and the revision of the Foreign Trade Act as a reason for watering down the approval criteria to the inconsistency. What do I mean by that? – A very concrete example. Glock submitted a request to the Ministry of Economic Affairs in 2008 for a weapon export of 120 pieces of Glock-Pistols to Tunisia. The company has indicated to the Ministry of Economic Affairs that these 120 Glock-Pistols are intended for the Ministry of the Interior of the Republic of Tunisia and are to be delivered to the Ministry of the Interior of the Republic of Tunisia via a foreign sales office of Glock. At that time, the Ministry of Economic Affairs has been able to reject this request, because, to date, the foreign trade law states that arms export permits are to be granted if there is no reason, among other things, to believe that the goods in the country of destination are used for internal repression. This provision is still in force. The present government template will make this provision history. The company Glock did not want to accept this decision, went to the Administrative Court, argued that the adoption of the Ministry of Economic Affairs was not understandable that the weapons in Tunisia would be used for internal repression. – That’s the 2008 stand. The Administrative Court rightly rejected Glock's complaint and stated that there is reason to believe that these weapons could be used for internal repression in Tunisia. Ladies and gentlemen, One and a half years after the rejection of Glock's concern by the Ministry of Economic Affairs, there was a popular uprising against the regime in Tunisia. Against this peaceful uprising, security forces were used, among other things, by the Tunisian Ministry of the Interior. Victim Report: 147 Tunisians and Tunisians murdered in these conflicts were injured 500. If these 120 pieces of Glock-Pistols had been delivered then they would have been used for internal repression against their own population. And what does the government do about this provision? . It makes it clear that, especially in the event of human rights violations, in the event of threat of internal repression, there must be a clear risk in order to reject a trade in arms. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: Even more stringent!]] If this is even more stringent, Mr President, it is also necessary to say that there are two classes of approval criteria. If this is even more stringent, it is said that there are less stringent approval criteria for terrorist activities, because there is no clear risk, but it is that there is no reasonable suspicion. So either – or. There is no argumentable why there should be different criteria why two classes of approval criteria are created. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: Oh, yeah, sure!]] If we do not want human rights violations with arms to take place in Austria in the future, then we cannot and must not accept this government proposal. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Finally, one sentence: In view of the fact that the draft assessment of the government template, for example, has so much been removed from the penal borders, with the specified penalties, so much has been halved, we can only assume massive lobbying by arms dealers and the arms dealer lobby, otherwise it cannot be explained why a semi-reasonable draft is watered down to the inconsistency and why the arms trade control is becoming even more watered and weaker than it has been before. Unfortunately, we cannot accept this government proposal in this form. And I appeal to the conscience of all the Members, and I repeat: If we do not want human rights violations to take place with weapons produced in Austria, we cannot accept this government proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e20465	Next speaker: Mrs Fürntrath-Moretti. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e20486	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! High house! Mrs Korun, I am not your opinion, because we are intensifying the export regulations. This is quite clear, and I will prove it to you on the basis of the criteria. With this law, we implement the EU Directive on the intra-Community movement of defence goods. What was it like so far? – Up to now, there has been an obligation to report with the right of refusal. New is now the following: We have defined eight criteria that will be examined and we will assess whether there are grounds for refusal. This test shall take into account, in particular, the following: the nature and quantity of the goods concerned or the nature and extent of the technical knowledge concerned, the country of destination provided, the final beneficiary provided for and the intended final use. Now on the criteria which I think are very essential. I would like to take out the points that I think are essential. A criterion is compliance with international obligations. Another criterion is compliance with the international mechanisms for the control of arms exports. It is essential that there should not be any reasonable suspicion that the goods are wholly or partly intended for the development, manufacture, handling, operation, maintenance or other maintenance, storage, location, identification, testing or dissemination of chemical or biological weapons, nuclear or other nuclear weapons or for the purpose of development, manufacture, maintenance or other maintenance, testing, testing, Storage or dissemination of missiles and other carrier systems would be used for such weapons. – So very specific criteria. Another important point from my point of view: There should be no clear risk that the goods could be used for internal repression, for serious human rights violations or for serious violations of international humanitarian law. [[President Dr. Graf takes over the chairmanship.]] Here, Mrs Korun, we have, for the first time, incorporated human rights into the law. That has not been the case so far. It is also an essential innovation. Another criterion: There should be no reasonable suspicion that the goods in the country of destination would trigger or prolong armed conflicts or aggravate existing tensions or conflicts. – Also very essential. The following criterion: There should be no clear risk that the notified recipient may use the goods for the purpose of aggression against another country or for the purpose of violent enforcement of a territorial claim or otherwise endanger the security interests of another country or stability in the region. - So that's quite clear. Another criterion: There should be no reasonable suspicion that the security interests of Austria or other EU Member States would be violated or that the external relations of Austria would be significantly disrupted. Next criterion: There should be no reasonable suspicion that the goods would be used to promote terrorism or international crime. Furthermore, there must be no reasonable suspicion that the goods would be diverted to a final use which would contradict the above criteria. So from my point of view, everything is essential. On sustainable development: There should be no reasonable suspicion that the operation would seriously affect the permanent development of the country of destination. – For me, in addition to the above criteria, the final use in the country of destination will be thoroughly reviewed. Ladies and gentlemen, the above criteria and reviews show that we are adopting a law that is stricter than that before. Stronger, Mrs Korun! In Austria we achieve an export turnover of about €100 billion. In 2000, the export share was 20 percent, and now we are 50 percent. Ladies and gentlemen, you will see how important it is for us Austrians to export, to safeguard our jobs and to safeguard our prosperity. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e20562	The next speaker was Mr Windholz. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e20584	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! High house! This draft law means the implementation of an EU directive. The main question is: How much more do we do than even meet the EU's requirements? – I think we're doing a lot more here. The question is: Who benefits, and who could harm that? I have already had a lot to do in this area in my profession. I know how difficult it is to prove how difficult it is to show away from the guarantee that there is an infringement. The new text makes nothing easier, but almost everything more complicated. I can tell you now that this will hardly be understandable for the economy. It will probably be advisable for companies – the previous speaker mentioned how much we export, how many jobs related to it – to always teach a lawyer in such decisions. For all these reasons, we assume that this is a partly even massive deterioration for the companies concerned. It is therefore impossible for us to support this proposal for a law. We will therefore refuse to approve.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e20620	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Gartlehner. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e20641	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that my previous speaker has already shown that we will project and decide on this issue a substantial strengthening of the legal framework. Personally, I'm glad about it. I have been in conflict since my early youth, although I was a staff member of Steyr Daimler Puch, I was also a member of the Socialist Youth, always with my colleagues on this subject. I am very glad that in the future there will be these tougher rules. You'll probably, as I mean, not really be able to secure. Also a gun, which is eventually delivered to the police, can be used once to suppress people. But the intensifications mentioned by my predecessor from the ÖVP, I believe, already show that we are planning a great improvement. The Secretary of State will, if I am properly informed, report on a study in which a benchmark comparison with legal regulations in this direction has been made to other national states. In international comparison, too, it can be found that the Austrian regime is a very strict one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e20675	Next speaker: Mr Themessl. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e20696	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! High house! Ladies and gentlemen, Yes, it is certainly always to be enjoyed with caution if EU directives are to be implemented here in Austria or if they are to be adapted to the rules of the Austrian State. We have seen this as well, but we also believe that, on the other hand, a certain degree of liberality and a certain freedom of trade are still possible, so that the export economy in Austria can of course continue to work successfully and secure jobs in Austria. On the accusation of the Greens, including the Committee, I must say: If you want to tighten up as you want, you'll risk our export industry. massively, because you must not forget, then you must not export hammers or kitchen knives anymore, because these too can be used elsewhere, for example for terrorist purposes. That must be clear. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Korun.]] I would also like to point out once again to our party that party funding from these areas to the FPÖ is also a matter of great concern to us, as was already the case in the Committee. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] As a matter of fact, we can say that a certain degree of liberalisation continues to exist, which is sufficient for us. That is why we will vote in favour of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e20756	Ms Mag. State Secretary has given his opinion on the matter. Remler to word reported. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e20778	Mr President. High house! ==References== On March 1, 2011, the Government Bill of the Foreign Trade Act was discussed in the Economic Committee. On the part of the economic sector, a recast of the law was proposed to us, especially for reasons of better legibility and legal certainty. In the course of the discussion on the government template, it was raised that the new law was too lax or even watered down. I would like to disagree with this because the criteria were not omitted, but the control standard of the 2005 Foreign Trade Act was fully maintained. They are neither overwhelming nor criminal, nor are they too lax or even watered down. Rather, an adaptation has been made to comparable acts of the Criminal Code, and in some areas criminal provisions have become even more stringent. I can also give you a few examples of where the new law has become more concrete. First in final use in § 13. There are now precise rules including the definition of minimum criteria by regulation. On the other hand, the Foreign Trade Act 2005 only provided optionally for the submission of a document to prove final use, without minimum criteria. There are now also waiting periods after notifications to examine an authorisation requirement. Such waiting periods are not provided for in the 2005 Foreign Trade Act. Security measures may also be required in respect of all approval criteria. In the Foreign Trade Act 2005, these security measures were only possible in individual cases. The loss of the right to use general authorisations is now explicitly foreseen. This is missing in the 2005 Foreign Trade Act. We have new criminal offences, which were not provided for in the 2005 Foreign Trade Act, and new qualifications with a much higher criminal framework. Finally, it must also be said that it is fully in line with the resolution of the National Council, in which it is said that it has to be done as smoothly as possible. Finally, I would like to refer to the wording of the approval criteria and reaffirm what Mr Mitterlehner has already stated in the Committee: We are stricter in the approval criteria in the new law than this is the common position. In concrete terms, it is always about the chosen terms “clear risk” or “founded suspicion”. The Ministry of Economic Affairs has decided to make transposition into national law as close as possible to the wording of the common position. As a result of the re-examination in the Economic Committee, the BKA Constitutional Service was asked by our section to examine the different formulations for its substantive justification. The BKA Constitutional Service comes to the conclusion in its opinion - I have the opinion here, I would like to give it to you - that an objective differentiation of the different assessment standards is based on the fact that, in the case of human rights or international humanitarian law, the risk of the violation of protective goods is directly assumed by the state or by the ruling regime. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In these cases, therefore, the end user is also the one who actually poses a threat in which there is a direct risk of injury to property. – That is how the Constitutional Service formulates. On the other hand, in the event of the impact on terrorist activities and international crime, a threat is to be prevented by individuals. In these cases, the threat is not directly from the end user, but from third parties. Therefore, in these cases, not only can there be a forecast of a risk-realisation, but it must be taken into account for a suspicion based on facts in connection with a forecast. – This is the justification of the BKA Constitutional Service. In the new foreign trade law, the conjunctive, i.e. “can” or “can” was always used, also in “violence of international humanitarian law” or in the case of “aggression against another country”. As regards the issue of refusal of authorisation, the possibility in all cases of a clear risk in Austria is already sufficient. In this way, Austrian implementation is more stringent than the common position: This has only used the conjunctive in the “internal repression”. In addition, the opinion of the Constitutional Service also confirms the statements made by Mr Mitterlehner in the Economic Committee that a very strict scale was laid down by the adopted wording. If the authorities in the Ministry of Economic Affairs are aware of the violation of authorisation requirements or of export bans, the officials shall immediately report to the Public Prosecutor on the suspicion of the infringement. That's quite clear. I believe that commands are always the right access to such issues, because prohibitions do not really hinder those who oppose laws and other normative rules. I would therefore ask you to decide on the Government template in the light of the remarks. – Thank you very much for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e20858	As the last speaker on this item on the agenda, Mr Matznetter is speaking on behalf of Mr Matznetter. 6 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e20881	Mr President. Mrs State Secretary, thank you for the very clear presentation of what the legal framework is! Where's Peter Pilz? - I'm sorry. There we had the enjoyable appearance in the Economic Committee, and now Peter Pilz is not there. [[Interruption calls at ÖVP and BZÖ.]] I mean, we learned a lot in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs. [[Calls to the Greens.]] No, look out, ladies and gentlemen! When you eat Italian in the middle of the eighth: Not in the pizzeria! There is the centre of arms trafficking, he has explained to us. All these things were nothing else – clearly, Karl Blecha, it has been 20 years since he was Minister of the Interior, but he was equally guilty of the arms trade. The humorous part is missing, and I wanted an intermediate applause for Peter Pilz, because he himself has made a confession that he is a political hat player – which is nothing illegal, because he does not require money for it, he has made it free of charge for us. The grain of truth was just never under the hat when you looked underneath it. [[Abg. May. Korun: Do you have something on the subject...?]] The blatant part – rightly, we have a serious issue. Why is Peter Pilz even expressed in this way? - That's why we should say. We all and myself in my past, I also said it in committee: I myself am on the tracks in Simmering against the export of the Kurassier tanks. There has been no regulation in Austria at all. I always personally supported Amnesty International by my use, and of course I was also annoyed when the suspicion existed: Here, something could be mitigated where the standard for human rights violations is reduced. Then I read through Amnesty International's statement, read a law to me, and say: This is not covered by the terms there! I'm going to the committee, and what do I hear? – Deputies Korun has literally lost the opinion of Amnesty! This is an honorable organization, and on days like this I don't even agree on whether to hold the talks of the lobbyists. But the position, Mrs Colleague, was not correct! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Donnerbauer.]] So I'm not doing anything but saying, Please, “significant risk ” is more severe than “founded suspicion ”! Then our hat player Peter Pilz pulls out and explains to us after all kinds of dark threats and the assumption that Minister Mitterlehner would have received some arms dealers – I don't remember exactly now, whether in the pizzeria or outside – at least he then explains: But this cannot be because terrorism must be judged as strictly as the violation of human rights! It is, however, exactly the other way round, Mrs Colleague. I am grateful for the opinion, and I am explaining it by the examples that the Constitutional Service itself cites. The Constitutional Service provides two practical examples, Mrs Colleague. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Korun.]] Let me say, it's explained right now; They were simply on the wood road in question. If a shipment of armored vehicles to a country is to be carried out – Mrs Colleague, this is important because only you feel that it is less strict; Mrs Korun, I am only doing it for you; the rest of you know that it is so – if you provide armored vehicles for border guards to a country where there have already been reports of human rights violations – I quote only the constitutional service opinions – then, because of the restriction on the word ‘significant risk’, export is to be refused, whereas she would not be rejected in the case of ‘founded’ or ‘founded suspicion’. [[Abg. Oil: What?]] [[Abg. Oillinger: A master teacher must also learn!]] That is, according to the old provision, according to the German provision the armored vehicles would be delivered, not according to our new law. The other example – why it is not possible to write “significant risk” in promoting terrorism – explains the Constitutional Service quite clearly: The Afghan police – where the UN asks us to upgrade them where we send the police to school – order guns. If we also write in ‘significant risk’, then there is Afghanistan: They can be attacked, and the weapons could fall into the hands of the Taliban. There must be a ‘founded suspicion’. That is why the distinction is relevant and correct, Mrs Colleague, and I would ask you, in this sense, to consider voting behaviour again. Amnesty is of course critical and careful. I still called the Secretary-General myself, he said: If we have such an opinion and this is clear, they will also recognise the stricter rules. – I am glad that we have this regulation. It's a good law. Mrs. State Secretary! Thanks also for not being in the pizzeria – not Glock-Pistols – but for getting a very strict law here. I would be pleased if it could also be decided with the support of our green friends. Also against Tunisia, in your case, there is less risk of weapons going out in the future. Peter Pilz is hopefully not in the pizzeria in the 8th. District, otherwise we'd have to take the slug hat away from him. I would like to continue to have such funny discussions with him and I am looking forward to having them in plenary once more. That is where we have to put the item on the agenda a little earlier, because in the evening the pizzeria calls! Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e20970	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 1073 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – That too is the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[19:20:01]] 12. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 1347/A(E) by Mrs Anneliese Kitzmüller, colleagues, on the abolition of the limit on the award of child care benefits (1129 d. B.) 13. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 298/A(E) by Mrs Ursula Haubner, colleague and colleagues on the annual valorization of family benefits (1130 d. B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e21040	We now come to points 12 and 13 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Kitzmüller has spoken. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e21067	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear listeners! Although the agenda is almost exhausted, as a family spokesperson of the liberals, I must unfortunately point out that there is a lot in the family committee. There are 18 opposition requests in the Committee, of which seven are unfinished by the FPÖ. [[Abg. Steibl: So this is an unspoiled cowardice!]] [[Further call at the ÖVP:Take this back!]] The lack of work in the Committee is already evident in the fact that between the last and the previous committee, half a year has passed until the Committee has once again spoken and the opposition parties' requests have been dealt with. The behaviour is also reflected in the fact that applications that are really important and are at last in need of a decisive and important deal are not dealt with. For example, there are applications concerning the time-limit solution: Measures that we need, legal measures, legal directives that are not created. We require prior medical advice regardless of the executing body, a separation from an executive doctor and a consultative body. It's not going to be done. I have an example. In the case of a normal vasectomy, which is certainly not as far-reaching as abortion, a separation from a consultative and executive body is necessary. In the case of abortions, this is not the case. If I look at the very questionable practices of this so-called abortion clinic Fiala, I have to say that if I have thugs and stammers there that protect this abortion clinic, and even he himself openly admits that the consultation is carried out in a maximum of flaw, I wonder what it looks like. If you would like to read and be informed about this, please refer to “www.unzensuriert.at”, where you will get clear insight. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Such a drive must be stopped, ladies and gentlemen. If you are no longer rooted in the Christian roots by the ÖVP and feel no longer committed, it would be time to find a clean solution here in accordance with ethical guidelines. Exactly the same thing: What about the family compensation law? - Nothing is done. Nothing happens when it comes to adapting family aid in the EU and EEA areas, as we have requested, or how our request is being made. Or the 13th. Family aid also dusts well in front of itself, and nothing happens. One thing I must do to the government parties: They treat all opposition parties equally well, that is to say, equally badly. That's what you have to say: They're all the same with your arguments. It also looks like the current sect report. What's it look like, ladies and gentlemen? - Nothing happened! It is said: It is important to advise, the families, the teachers and everyone must be informed. I am literally quoting Mrs Steibl, who said: The need for information on sects and sect-like groups remains high. This is also demonstrated by the Federal Office for Cult Requests 2008 to 2009, which is discussed in the Family Committee. Yeah, so? But what else? . He was discussed in the Family Committee at our request, but to discuss him publicly here in the plenary session, that was suffocated by the government parties. [[Abg. Steibl: But you could have done this before!]] In that case, we were treated equally badly, because we wanted him here in plenary. Well, that's where we see it again: It is said here that the sects must be observed, be it the esoterics, the occultists, the Scientology sects and so on, but nothing happens. We have even here in the sect report that a learning institute is operated by the Scientology sect: “Better learning – English is easy!” It must be kept in mind here that nothing happens, which is also mentioned in the sect report. It is also mentioned here that this is led by Ron Hubbard, a professing Scientology representative. - Nothing happens! How does it look with the splitter groups, with the Islamic splitter groups, with the radical splitter groups we have there? – Islamism is recognized, so it is no longer being looked at there, and it disappears any way to do anything there, on the day of the Nammerlein. We will not do anything there, although there is an acute need for action, ladies and gentlemen. What about thinking that children have to be protected, as we have said? But now, ladies and gentlemen, we come to these two proposals: on 13. Family aid and Mr Haubner's request. We will, of course, agree, knowing that this request has already been suspended in the committee in 2008 and will, of course, be re-smoothed here and will not be approved. When I look at it like this: I have initially said that it is a pity that the requests remain and that the Committee does not meet more often. If I look more closely at this, I don't know if it's a good thing that he doesn't meet so much, because then he can't do as much and don't baffle as much as he does in part. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We have called for the removal of the limit of merit in the request. There are five different child care models, four income-independent and one income-dependent variant. The package variants all have a liability limit of 16 200 € or 60 percent of the previous taxable income. For the income-dependent variant, we have a cap with a maximum of €5 800 per year. If the SPÖ, ladies and gentlemen, is really so much about the male participation in childcare, then it has to do with the fact that we should abolish the limit of commitment as far as possible in order to actually get the men to stay with the children. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ablinger]] Or if the EIA is actually about freedom of choice, we have the opportunity here, even if you agree, to give women an actual freedom of choice. Or, of course, what is nearby here, would ÖVP prefer women, who work as cheap workers, as cheap full-time workers, and thus serve the economy more effectively? Ladies and gentlemen! For the purposes of freedom of choice and the participation of fathers: Voices Let us ask you to do this.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e21150	The next speaker is Mrs Tamandl. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e21172	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Kitzmüller has spread the situation in the Family Committee. I would like to say that it is partly immense, as you have given it, because the Secretary of State has made a number of requests that have been postponed by us for good reason... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kitzmüller.]] If there is a need for legislation when there are intense discussions – for example, as regards the protection of young people as far as youth welfare is concerned – it is also legitimate to say: We do not need to accept this request now, but we will see how the talks are going. It's also important for us to do something here soon. But on the requests that the Family Committee – and this is a democratic right – has been rejected today, I would like to refer to the limit of self-employment, to the abolition of the limit of earnability. I do not hide that the ÖVP women, that especially my former colleague Gertrude Brinek was very strong for the abolition of the amount of child care allowance. I have to say, however, that we have a new package variant with 1 000 € for 12 months plus two months, and we have the income-dependent childcare allowance. We have not yet had that at the time when we were in favour of abolishing the limit of merit. I also believe that it is not true what you say, namely that the fathers would take part in child care if we were to abolish the earnability limit – because I believe that if the fathers are still working 40 or 38,5 or more hours, for example, the income-dependent child care allowance – 80 percent of their last earnings – and I also deserve as much as they want, then the fathers will have no time to participate in child care as well. I am very surprised that this is precisely what you are demanding, Mrs Kitzmüller. I believe that we need the limit of merit in the income-dependent childcare allowance, namely the low-quality limit. I believe that, unlike in the past, with the 60 percent reward limit of the last relationship, we have a much better possibility. It's always been mounted that we have a rigid border. That was 14 000 € before, which is now 16 200 €. I also always felt that there was a need, even for young entrepreneurs, for a flexible limit of merit. That's what we've achieved. This is well accepted, and by the way, I believe that the companies – and there we are all called upon to sit in the staff offices, but also those responsible in the establishments – are getting a karenz management, so that the woman, at the moment she knows she is pregnant, can already plan how and when she can return to the company after or within her care and take a foothold there. I think that is the most important thing, and the Secretary of State has come to know this. For this we really have to make the mood in society and in the economy, and the limit of merit, I think, we need for these reasons which I have mentioned to you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e21232	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Musiol. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e21253	Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Tamandl, if you say you are adjourning when processes are in progress and so to speak, agreeing to or refusing this request would interrupt this process, then this is probably not even half the truth, but a third truth. My impression is rather, you'll delay if you don't want to position yourself. Against this background, it is very nice that we can once discuss two requests from the opposition here in Parliament, because everyone is usually postponed or postponed, so that we do not get to discuss them at all. I would just like to remind you that the Federal Framework Act has been in the Committee for over two years – adjourned. There are no negotiations on this federal framework law, there are no processes either. There are currently no 15a agreements that would replace it. It is simply that you have agreed to content, but in fact, because of various constraints – including the constraints of your country parties and the people sitting there and their interests – you did not want to continue, but you did not want to position yourself against it. - So, but now to the two requests. With regard to Mr Kitzmüller's request concerning the abolition of the limit of credit: Yes, the child care system is complex. In my opinion, in our opinion, there are too many variants where, above all, those concerned can no longer see which one is best for them, and then some computers do not help in the ministry. Yes, we were also critical of the issue of the introduction of the limit of merit, and it has been shown, especially among the self-employed, that it is really very difficult for many to actually assess when the limit is reached and how to proceed. Nevertheless, we are very skeptical of the question of abolishing this limit of merit. Our proposal would rather be to introduce a freedom of choice, namely either a monetary commitment limit or a working time limit, because then there is the opportunity for everyone to think about it, to work a maximum of that and so many hours in addition, or to earn a maximum of that and so much. Then this self-employed problem, which I have already explained, would also be settled. The problem with the abolition of the earnable limit – and I would like to give you, Mrs Tamandl, which is now no longer here, but we have already talked about it in committee, right – is indeed the following: If I abolish the limit of commitment, then in many families it is likely that the fathers – but not always because they are so unwilling, but often because they are simply the ones that can bring the greater share of family income, because of the income sheer that exists between men and women – still have income, so to speak, but are officially child care providers, but de facto remains the entire burden of child care for mothers. In any case, this is women's political, but from my point of view it is also family policy if one understands family policy in such a way that both parents should have the opportunity to agree on family and work. That is why we reject your request. We shall be voting in favour of Mr Haubner's request, which concerns valorizing family benefits, and we have already made such requests. [[Abg. Huber: Very good!]] In this context, however, I would like to say one more thing: I don't think it's done with the valorization alone. We all know that FLAF is massively over-indebted, and that will not change, even if the committee has been tried to somehow pressure us. In fact, these were not very coherent answers from you, Mrs. State Secretary, and that means you have to think more than just valorization. You have to consider how to shape family benefits in the future. There is now the database, where there will finally be an overview where, in which federal state, you can get what family benefits. Then you can really discuss how the family benefits are to continue. I am speaking not only of the monetary, i.e. of the cash benefits, but above all of infrastructure – and this leads me back to the federal framework law, because there is an urgent need for action. Even though ministers, such as the Minister for Women or the Minister for Economic Affairs, repeatedly point out: Yes, you have to think about it, because it takes more infrastructure – the Minister of Economic Affairs has already taken it back anyway – then there must be actions to follow. And the fact must not be to leave out the grant for childcare in 2010 and not to extend it, but the act must first be to take money into its hands and invest in the development of childcare and, of course, to take care of how to improve overall the quality of childcare facilities, the quality of care, the quality of the staff there. In this sense, I remind you on this path of our request for the Federal Framework Act. We will put this back on the agenda in the next committee, which we hope will be coming soon and not only in half a year, and we will see how you will position yourself this time.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e21290	Next speaker: Mrs Binder-Maier. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e21313	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Kitzmüller, I missed the blue thread in your remarks today, it was not quite understandable. [[Abg. New builder: Give it to us!]] Mrs Musiol: Quite honestly, I can really understand your impatience, I also have a lot of things going too slowly. You are aware of the constraints of the policy rules. We have, we know, also the barriers at country level, but I think with good will we will make some progress, even as you have done. But on the other hand, on the two requests for the abolition of the limit of merit and on the other hand on valorization. I believe that the child care allowance is for the parent, who mainly and mainly cares for the child, who takes care of the child. A full employment would greatly limit these care obligations. For this reason, we cannot agree to the abolition of the earnable limit, because it would not allow for a desired increase in father participation, there would be no reduction in working time and the pressure of employers, namely: You can work and earn unlimited again!, of course, would also be possible. These points do not mean that what we want, namely the sharing of family and care work, is being forced. But what we will be happy to talk to you about is – and this is a long-standing demand from us – the reduction of working time, which is opposite the limit of merit. So, if both working hours are reduced, we can talk about putting an end to the gain limit. Second point, the valorization: A very high goal, Mrs. Colleague. I also understand your request, but I think – you were in a responsible position as a family minister – you know very well about our budgetary situation, which is widely known. [[Abg. Huber: Only for the rich, for Brussels!]] [[Calls of the Abg. Kitzmüller.]] I am very glad that Minister Mitterlehner has made the statement that the 2012 budget has resulted in a stabilisation of family benefits. The fact is that we have high financial support for our families, for our children in Austria. I'd like to list them all to you: The bow extends from the family allowance to the free co-insurance of children. Today, a study was presented by the University of Krems. The main points are the development of social services, particularly at local level, and the development of the social system, primarily through investment in benefits. That is why we are also going to work on it, we will discuss how the efficiency of the services looks, how precisely and where they are effective. However, the two proposals in question are rejected by us.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e21367	Next speaker: Mrs Haubner. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e21389	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Mrs Musiol, I would like to ask you: A valorization of family benefits alone does not constitute a good family policy, that is quite clear, but we also know that the decision for children depends on the professional situation, how to agree on a job and family, – there is still much to do – but, of course, it also depends on the economic situation: Can we afford ourselves children? According to a WIFO study, we know that an average cost of children is €500 per month. These are purely financial costs for children, since I am not talking about all the other things that are still to be borne, or about the responsibility that parents have for the education and care of their children. The benefits now paid by the state – family allowance, childcare allowance and so on – represent an average of 10 per cent of the net income of the families. This is relatively much, and so families need these benefits urgently. The social report will also be discussed tomorrow, and again it says that the risk of poverty is constant, as nothing has changed. Families are particularly vulnerable – single-parent families, multi-child families, but generally children and young people. This has to give us just to think, because for years there has actually been little change. Therefore, families in Austria need services that are not shortened. Many of us have already forgotten that a lot of money has been taken away from the families in the last load package: I'm just thinking about reducing the multi-child gap, I'm thinking about the removal of the 13. Family aid, the reduction of the period of reference of family aid, the current tax burden, the cost of living. Today, we have discussed the high prices of petrol for commuters, for women commuting to families, too. Families, Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, reliability and families also need public recognition. In my view, it is really irresponsible, both socially and economically, if the government is constantly substituting where it is most difficult, namely for families, instead of saving in the system, whether it be for party financing, whether it be in administration, education, school, health, or also for payments to marodeple states. For Greece you have already paid 800 million €, the families you delete 400 million €. [[Abg. Huber: Incredible!]] We from BZÖ, ladies and gentlemen, were and are against a reduction in family benefits, and we are in favour of a long-term inflation adjustment. That is why this request, which was already submitted in 2008 – 2008, was three years ago. This request has been postponed over and over again, and by now the family benefits have already reached 21 percent. I would therefore like to say again at this point: In the past – and they do now – the Austrian families have paid enough, through their taxes, through a school system that is very expensive for many families due to this exorbitant high cost of remedial aid, through an expensive administration. I'm going to have a babysitting allowance, because that's always going down. For this commitment limit – for the control, for all that has to do with it – huge sums are spent in the administration, which is cost in millions, and therefore it is quite clear to me that: Yes, we are for the abolition of the limit of trust. I know that the ÖVP, together with us at the time, spoke in a different way than today. At the time, they also saw it as a family benefit that is not dependent on income. We still see it this way, we don't see it as a model or a money to better reconcile work and family life, because I think in what form parents care for their children – more the father, more the mother, whether you're going to work full-time, whether you're going to work part-time – they have to be themselves. I do not want us to get so far that perhaps the state will still be controlled in the families, whether those who receive the childcare allowance will really work less and do the work for the children that are planned. This will not be the case, and therefore I say – also in the sense of the free choice of parents, in the sense of administrative simplification, a saving of money for other things that are more important – that: Yes, on the abolition of the limit of merit, and that is why we will also agree to this request. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] In general, saving children is a false signal, and I would like to appeal to you again, Mrs State Secretary, for I fear that in the next few months we will have another discussion that there will be no money for a new law on youth aid, that the countries will say: Yes, we do, but the covenant must pay it! And the covenant says: No, the countries have to pay this! This is unworthy of families, that is unworthy of children, unworthy of a social-politically good future. Since I read yesterday in a newspaper that the Minister of the Family announces a great deal and says that in the budget negotiations for a new savings package next year, families will no longer be saved – well, they have already been robbed anyway – I ask him, if he honestly believes it, to finally adapt the benefits of our families to the changed situations of life!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e21433	Next speaker: Mr. Prince. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e21455	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Austria has a leading position in the European Union in terms of state benefits for families. We can be really proud of that. In order to secure these family benefits in the future, a responsible policy is necessary, which is very careful to ensure that the benefits arrive precisely wherever they are needed. Responsible family policy is therefore not suitable for cheap populism. I therefore come to the motion for a resolution of the BZÖ which calls for an annual valorization of all family allowances, all family benefits: Mrs Haubner, in times when the budget is to be consolidated, with a family compensation fund, which is actually totally over-indebted due to the increase in performance, undifferentiated performance expansions are not allowed, and they are also unrealistic. [[Abg. Ursula Haubner:... Family aid increased! ... Multi-child supplement!]] [[Intrusions of the Abg. Huber.]] – You know that too, but you still demand it. I wonder why you have not set up any such initiatives in the time of your government responsibility or as a minister. There you were very quiet and with your wisdom in the end. In addition, Mrs Colleague, you also know that with the level of family benefits in 2011, we are still above the level of 2008, a high economic year. You know that, and you say something else anyway. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, although I understand that it is appealing for the opposition to call on the government parties to spend the money with both hands, it is not necessary to take responsibility for this, but it is not useful to do so for the present generation and for no future generation. To demand something from others without taking on responsibility and the consequences for themselves, there is no credibility of a former government party or minister. But with the credibility of the BZÖ it is generally not that far away at the moment. After all, in your ranks is a Mr. Petzner, who was on his car without a driver's license. [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] As a consequence, he gives up the volunteer job as a national chairman – but he retains the paid job here in Parliament! If he had a bit of mum in his bones, the withdrawal permit would have been signed for a long time. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ursula Haubner.]] A party that has legally condemned Members in its ranks should deal with criticism of others very, very economical. But back to the BZÖ application: We will reject this request for good reasons, because we are for consistent and responsible savings and in the area of family support, we will ensure that what is needed is done on a daily basis. We are in favour of family policy being modern. Its task is to recognise, take into account and act accordingly on social and financial changes and changes in social and financial needs. An annual valorization is clearly far too short.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e21535	The next speaker was Mr Huber. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e21557	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Mr. Prince, I'm surprised. I think the ÖVP is anything but a family party. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grillitic.]] Do you represent only more raiffeisen and other corporations? It is absolutely impossible! One thing has to be said: Valorization is possible in the case of pensions. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Prince.]] – The future of the Republic is our families, and for the future do we have no money?- Oh, my God! Mr Principal, be ashamed when such demands are made! The families paid enough! Families suffer from poverty, families can pay for the mineral oil tax in the country, all the daily costs – and you have nothing else in mind to send the billions to Brussels! At last, our families have priority! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] You know that families are spending €60 billion on social policy work. We finally have to recognize that, and the families have paid off. Only the children, the families have the future. - So, please, can't do that! Mrs. State Secretary! When you look at the situation in the countryside, for example, in Stronach, East Tyrol, you meet the Chepeller family with five children. That's where the mother tells me: I have to go to Lienz five times every day, since the expenditure has increased by €400 in the last six months! That's about €80 a month. That must finally be recognized! We need to promote the families. [[Abg. Don't make a vortex like that!]] [[Abg. Markowitz: (in the direction of Abg. Don't be so oblivionous!]] Dear ÖVP, if you only make more lobbyist policy, represent only more corporations and betray the families, then you will see where you end up! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I would like to say one thing about the credibility of the BZÖ: I think it is irresponsible if, instead of taking the floor for the families here, you bring a quick driver as a substitute. Shame! You can be really ashamed of this policy! The families didn't deserve this! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] It needs action at last. We must act and not just blow out headlines and plates. [[Abg. May. Schönegger: Plattiden, how do you write this?]] The families suffer massively. The torment is perceptible every day, even though it is denied by you. There's finally a need for action, not headlines. If we do not succeed in strengthening the purchasing power of the families at last, the economy will also suffer, because a rolling stone that stops will start Moos – and that will also explain the economy to you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e21667	Next speaker: Mrs Lueger. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e21688	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to refer once again to the abolition of the limit of commitment. It's a shame Mrs. Kitzmüller isn't here. - Yes, she's here! In your statement of the request, you will write that it will result in more fatherhood and a better reconciliation of work and family life. I'd like to go back a little bit in history. In the past, when working women became pregnant and children were given a pension – as a replacement for the wage, because they are responsible for childcare. In 2002 the child care allowance was created in the first form. [[Abg. Ursula Haubner: There was the SPÖ against it!]] This has been further developed so that there are now five variants. Now there are the four package variants and the income-dependent variant, with both the four package variants and the income-dependent variant of the incentive for the fathers already available, because the times are already separate: in 30 plus 6, 20 plus 4, 15 plus 3 and 12 plus 2. This approach exists. Here there is the possibility of father participation. And here I am not your opinion, Mrs State Secretary: In the Committee you said that you are not quite in favour of the Papa-Monat, because the fathers could also take a vacation. I do not represent this opinion! Another point for the better compatibility of work and family is, of course, the introduction of the Papa-Month. I am convinced that, in order to improve the framework conditions for the compatibility of work and family, we need to promote the further development of childcare facilities, and we must also encourage businesses to set up more farm kindergartens. Then we can talk about the fact that equality between men and women is guaranteed so much that it really comes to financial equality and then both are ready to go to Karenz. As long as these conditions are not created, I am opposed to the abolition of the limit of merit. I am in favour of maintaining or, as Mr Musiol has also suggested, for further development into a working time limit. Then: The abolition of the limit of merit would not mean that the fathers are more involved and that people are working less. It means child care money, because there's something behind it: I'm supposed to take care of the child with this money – and not pay for the extraordinary childcare. That is why we reject it.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e21738	Ms Mag. State Secretary has given his opinion on the matter. Remler to word reported. I'll give her the word.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e21759	Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of High house! Mr Huber, I would like to ask you: Families with children, families are the foundation of our society, children are our future. Families need safety, family members need time they can spend together, and families need appropriate infrastructure. There's nothing to add to that. But I also have to say that in recent years Austria has set some family-political milestones. This includes, for example, the income-dependent childcare allowance, the extension of the childcare offer, the mandatory free kindergarten, the tax deductibility of child care costs, to name just a few. I'll give you the right, too. The savings in the family area were very unfortunate; there I am quite with you. But you also know that, because of the budgetary situation and the situation of the family compensation fund, these measures were necessary in order to take responsibility for our children. We now have the responsibility to allow our children, our families, to receive financial benefits in the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Huber.]] Mr Huber, I have to stress once again that we are still in the European peak in direct family benefits. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We still spend €941 million per year more than in the 2008 high-economy year. I think it's time to say that. I'll give you the right to do this: The families can't get enough support at all. We all know this, but we also know that a valorization of family benefits can unfortunately not be considered due to the budgetaryly stressed situation. [[Abg. Markowitz: But to Greece send money, you can do that?- Oh, my God!]] Because we're already in child care money: Mrs Musiol, I am of the opinion that these five variants of childcare benefit are valuable to the families. The families in Austria have the possibility to choose between five variants. You can choose from five variants the best for them. The childcare allowance was introduced in 2002 and supplemented in 2010 by two new short variants. That is, 12 plus 2 months – two months with the participation of the second parent. This was also introduced in order to achieve an increase in father participation. What we can see now is that the trend is right: Fatherhood participation is currently around 11 percent. But what needs to be done to achieve real fatherhood, so that the fathers really do child care? – We need to reduce working time to achieve this, and we need to introduce a commitment limit. Let's take the income-dependent childcare allowance. 80 percent of the last income is possible. What would be without a commitment limit? Without a confidence limit, we would pay an income replacement for income not lost. That is absolutely reluctant! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I therefore hope that you will understand the rejection of these two requests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e21833	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Worm. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e21855	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! You, Mrs. State Secretary, have just mentioned that 11 percent now use the income-dependent childcare allowance. This is a good trend, but the situation is far from as we want it to be. The French statistics have now stopped us. They have calculated that in France about two thirds of the care work of young children continues to take over mothers. In fact, 80 percent of women are responsible for housework. One has come up with the idea of introducing – that is the interesting – the French business side, MEDEF, a forced leave for fathers in order to achieve what is particularly important in France and should also be important to us: Freedom, equality, fatherhood. That's what they went into. In this way they have fueled the social discussion. Why do they now come up with this proposal? – This is an interesting thing and quite logical: If the entrepreneurs have to be present that women or men can or must stay at home with the child at child's home at child-bearing or child-bearing age from the time they become parents, then the danger is that someone is a certain time outside the holding will be distributed to both sexes. This might also reduce the large income gap that exists only because of gender, namely this 18 percent. This is an idea, a proposal that comes from our neighbouring country, which we should perhaps take up. So: Fathers, stay at home, benefit from the possibility of child rearing so that equality can also be lived – even if you are opposed to it or can't imagine it quite well, Mr. Colleague of the FPÖ. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Vocal]] Think about it, think about it! You'll see, it could be the most beautiful time in your life if you stayed at your child's home for a year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e21894	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Kuntzl. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e21915	Ladies and gentlemen! On the two applications in question: I too support the rejection of these two requests and I would like to justify them. With regard to child benefits: It was actually a very rigid system when it was introduced. In recent years, a number of significant changes have been made, including the income-related allowance, which is a very important step. I understand the concern behind this request to abolish the limit of merit, but I think the way you propose is an illusion. If you only keep in mind the model 30 months plus 6: Six months are reserved for the father. Unfortunately, these six months are still falling in 90 percent of cases or more. If we were to abolish the limit of merit, it was that 90 percent of the fathers, without any change in the children's lives, would refer to the child's money. That means that we would spend a huge sum without achieving a corresponding positive steering effect. The proposal, which the colleague, Mr Binder-Maier, has also referred to, to further develop the child's money to be able to choose between the reduction of working time and the reduction of earnings, the limit on money, as we have already had in some electoral programmes, I think it is a step that we should continue to follow.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e21952	The next speaker was Mr Riepl. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e21973	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Mr Haubner, I really enjoyed your speech today, I must say honestly, but you have disappointed me a little. For I had hoped that today you would give an answer to the question of why, when you were responsible for family policy in that country, you did not achieve an annual valorization. [[Abg. Ursula Haubner: Family aid has been increased...!]] The answer to this question has remained to us, a pity. But perhaps there is a reason for this, which is related to today's grounds for rejection; that could be. I think it is worth looking at a book at the family benefits in Austria, namely in “Social benefits at a glance 2011” – a very, very thick book from the Chamber of Workers. It really mentions what we have in our country all about family benefits: Family allowance, child care allowance, child rearing periods are included in the pension, co-insurance in health insurance, has already been said, family allowances in unemployment insurance, tax deductibility in child care costs, free kindergarten, school leave, aid, student insurance, school books, care allowance and whatever else there is – a huge number. [[Abg. Ursula Haubner: That's all we've introduced!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: That's where you were against it!]] I have not even listed everything, there is a huge number of family benefits, and then your group is told that everything goes down the stream, everything is bad and the families would not be taken into account. – Just the opposite, I think, is the case. We believe – and I believe so too – that it is better to also think about whether we will not be able to do so in the future instead of increasing money benefits. More attention should be paid to family policy benefits. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ursula Haubner.]] Money is also needed for benefits in kind. That is why, I think, it is quite good that you do not introduce automatic means of doing this, but rather receive flexibility. That is why my group's attitude is as I have already said by my previous speakers.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e22062	Next speaker: Mrs Schönpass. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e22086	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I come from a family with five children, and there are already five grandchildren in our family. When I compare the family benefits at the time of my parents with the family benefits of today, I have to say that there has been a huge development and we have good family benefits. But it can’t be that poverty with family benefits is ‘ lifted up ’! It is important that incomes are better reflected. I am also referring to the issue of child care, the abolition of child care and the limit of self-employment, and my previous speakers have already outlined the foresights. The positions always depend on where you stand and what ideology you pursue. In this context, however, I would like to take the following into account: The issue of child care benefits, as I believe, is not only about family benefits, but also about equal opportunities. Child benefit is intended to help improve gender opportunities. That is why we have concerns about the SPÖ to abolish the limit of merit to the whole. Thus, for example, fathers would be able to obtain the child's money formally, but would continue to work fully. The money would either buy a care or the mother would stay at home with the child. That cannot be the goal of a family policy! [[Abg. Scheibner: You were always for freedom of choice!]] We are concerned with the best possible compatibility between work and family for men and women. Therefore, the working time limit model is a follow-up approach rather than a yield limit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e22134	Mr Lipitsch spoke as the last speaker on this item on the agenda. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e22155	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! The SPÖ goal in the area of family policy was and is always to create better compatibility between work and family for women and men. I would like to point out a result of the AK/ÖGB study on women's employment. A high level of female employment is positive for economic growth. Economic growth, in turn, is positive for the budget. However, achieving a high employment rate is only possible if there are suitable childcare facilities. Investments in childcare facilities are therefore in demand, because they are double. On the one hand, there is the freedom of choice for women to return to their profession, and on the other hand, jobs are created in the educational field. I would like to comment on one point which has not yet been raised: In the last three years, the federal government has provided around €45 million through the start-up financing. This created 6 000 new jobs and 17 500 new care places. It is necessary that this path be continued. Mrs State Secretary, I urge you to continue this successful path with all your strength and to make the necessary resources available for the benefit of the families. As my previous speakers have said: We are at the heart of family politics moderate for the benefit of children and the development of child care facilities.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e22197	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Deimek reported. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e22219	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Not that you now believe I'm the great family specialist or family law specialist. [[Abg. Grill: Why are you talking?]] One thing I have already learned in the course of my two sons' education: Children need borders to keep them! [[Abg. Grillitsch makes the wiper movement.]] Mr Grillitsch, you need very strong boundaries, but you will not learn it anymore, because you are already too old to do so. Don't worry! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Children need boundaries, no matter if they're small, or do you like to wipe? [[Abg. Grillitsch is again making the wiper movement.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Show With Your own limitations? - That's bad, Mr. Farmer's Chief. Please, limit yourself to your ladies and your cars, but otherwise you'll be more calm, at least when someone else speaks. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Call the ÖVP: Unheard! Mr President.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are now coming to the real issue. Children need their borders – whether children are small or large – and these big children who need the borders especially if they do not behave democratically. And the reason for my speech is what will come in the near future, namely once again the reference to the thousands of uncompleted requests in the committees. That's not democratic! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We are going to have to think about whether it is good to leave these more than a thousand applications, or whether it would not be better to vote on them. We think it would be necessary to deal with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e22301	Even if I'm still so often asked: What Mr Grillitsch said by hand, Mr Deimek put it in words. You both didn't give up on this scumbag. That's why I'm looking at it. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] No-one's been reported in word now. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur or the rapporteur wish to have a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. We now proceed to the vote on the request from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of his report 1129 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Finally, we are voting on the request of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of its report 1130 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. The agenda is exhausted. [[20:14:35]] Vote on requests for time-limits
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e22365	We shall now proceed to the vote on the time-limits which I shall make in each case. First of all, we are voting on the request made by Mr Magn. Stefan, the Legal Committee for Reporting on Amendment No 742/A by Dr Fichtenbauer, colleagues and colleagues on a Federal Act amending the General Civil Code (ABGB), is limited to 28. ==References== The vote has been taken on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of Credentials, In view of the fact that the request for the name of 20 Members has been put to the vote, it is appropriate to have a name-named vote on the motion for a time limit. That's why I'm doing this. The ballots to be used are in the shops of the Members'poules. They bear the name of the Members and the name “Yes” – these are the grey polls – or “No” – which are the pink-colored polls. Only those official votes can be used for the vote. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Members are called upon to put the vote in the votes cast. I would like to ask those Members who vote in favour of the deadline request to put “Yes” votes, those who vote against, “No” vote in the urn. I now ask the author, Mr Zanger, to start the call for name. Mr Jakob Auer will replace him later. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e22440	The vote will end. The officials of the House responsible for this task will now make their votes under the supervision of the Correspondents. The meeting will be suspended for a few minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e22480	I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote. Members cast: 156; of which ‘Yes’ votes: 55, ‘No’ votes: 101. The deadline application is therefore rejected. According to § 66 para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure, the names of the Members shall be included in the Stenographic Protocol, indicating their voting behaviour. This approach, in particular what I read about the vote at the outset, now applies to all the votes. I am therefore saving myself because we are already well trained to read this for any further vote. Members voted in ‘Yes’: Brosz, Brunner, Bucher; Deimek, Dolinschek, Doppler; Garter, grassland, grave, green forest; Hackl Heinz-Peter, Hagen, Haider, Haubner Ursula, Herbert, Höbart, Huber, Hübner; Jannach, jury; Karlsböck, Kitzmüller, Kogler, Königshofer, Korun, Kunasek; Laust; Markowitz, Mayerhofer, Mühlberghuber, Musiol; Neubauer Werner; Oils; Pirklhuber, Podgorschek; Riemer, Rosary; Honey, Schwentner, Spadiut, Stadler Ewald, Stefan, Steinhauser, Strache, Strutz; Tadler Erich; Inland waterways; Van der Bellen, Vock; Walser, Widmann Rainer, Windwood, Winter; Singer, Zinggl. Members voted with ‘No’: Ablinger, Amon, Aubauer, Auer Jacob, Auer Joseph, Bartenstein, Bayr, Becher, Binder-Maier, Buchmayr; Cap, Cortolezis scraper, Csörgits; Donabauer Karl, Donnerbauer Heribert, Transmitter; Eßl; Fazekas, Franz, Fuhrmann, Fürntrath-Moretti; Gahr, Gartlehner, Gaßner, Gessl-Ranftl, Glaser, Grillitsch; Hakel Elisabeth, Hakl Karin, Hammer, Haubner Peter, Hechtl, Heinzl, Hell, Höfinger, Hellerer, Hörl, Hornek, Huainigg; Jarolim; Kaipel, Katzian, Keck, Kirchgatterer, Clickovits, Köfer, Königsberger-Ludwig, Koßl, Krainer, Krist, Kuntzl, Kuzdas; Lapp, Lettenbichler, Lipitsch, Lohfeyer, Lueger Angela; Maier Ferdinand, Maier Johann, Matznetter, Mayer Elmar, Mayer Peter, Molterer, Muchich, Muttonen; Neugebauer Fritz; Oberhauser; Pack, Pendl, Plassnik, Plessl, Prehauser, Prammer, Praßl, Preiner, Prince; Rädler Johann, Riepl, Rudas; Sacher, Schickhofer, Schittenhelm, Schmielenschlager, Schönegger Bernd, Schönpass Rosemarie, Schopf, Schultes, Schüssel, Silhavy, Singer, Spindelberger, Steibl Ridi Maria, Steindl Konrad, Steßl-Mühlbacher, Stummvoll; Tamandl; Wenninger, Wittmann Peter, Wöinger, Worm.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e22663	We shall now proceed to the vote on the request made by Mr Herbert, the Committee on Internal Affairs for reporting on Amendment No 283/A(E) by Mr Vilimsky, colleagues with regard to the increase in the level of staff at the Executive Committee, for a period of up to 28 years. ==References== The vote has been taken on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of Credentials, The request was made by 20 Members, so I am doing so. The procedure is known. I would like to ask those Members who vote in favour of the deadline request to put “Yes” votes, those who vote against, “No” vote in the urn. I am now asking the scribes to start with the name call.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e22727	The vote will end. I am interrupting the vote on the vote.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e22761	I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote: Members cast: 159; of which ‘Yes’ votes: 59, No votes: 100. The deadline application is therefore rejected. Members voted in ‘Yes’: Brosz, Brunner, Bucher; Deimek, Dolinschek, Doppler; Gartelgruber, Grastaur, Graf, Grosz Gerald, Grünewald; Hackl Heinz-Peter, Hagen, Haider, Haubner Ursula, Herbert Werner, Höbart, Huber, Hübner; Jannach, jury; Karlsböck, Kitzmüller, Kogler, Königshofer, Korun, Kunasek; Lausch, Linder; Markowitz, Mayerhofer, Mühlberghuber, Musiol; Neubauer Werner; Oils; Pirklhuber, Podgorschek; Riemer, Rosary; Treasure, Scheibner, Schwentner, Spadiut, Stadler Ewald, Stefan, Steinhauser, Strache, Strutz; Tadler Erich, Themessl; Inland waterways; Van der Bellen, Vock; Walser, Widmann Rainer, Windwood, Winter; Singer, Zinggl. Members voted with ‘No’: Ablinger, Amon, Aubauer, Auer Jacob, Auer Joseph, Bartenstein, Bayr, Becher, Binder-Maier, Buchmayr; Cap, Cortolezis scraper, Csörgits; Donabauer Karl, Donnerbauer Heribert, Transmitter; Eßl; Fazekas, Franz, Fuhrmann, Fürntrath-Moretti; Gahr, Gartlehner, Gaßner, Gessl-Ranftl, Glaser; Grillish; Hakel Elisabeth, Hakl Karin, Hammer, Haubner Peter, Hechtl, Heinzl, Hell, Höfinger, Hellerer, Hörl, Hornek, Huainigg; Ikrath; Kaipel, Katzian, Keck, Kirchgatterer, Clickovits, Köfer, Königsberger-Ludwig, Koßl, Krist, Kuntzl, Kuzdas; Lapp, Lettenbichler, Lipitsch, Lohfeyer, Lueger Angela; Maier Ferdinand, Maier Johann, Matznetter, Mayer Elmar, Mayer Peter, Molterer, Muchich, Muttonen; Neugebauer Fritz; Oberhauser, Obernosterer; Pack, Pendl, Plassnik, Plessl, Prehauser, Praßl, Preiner, Prince; Rädler Johann, Riepl, Rudas; Sacher, Schickhofer, Schittenhelm, Schmielenschlager, Schönegger Bernd, Schönpass Rosemarie, Schopf, Schultes, Schüssel, Silhavy, Singer, Spindelberger, Steibl Ridi Maria, Steindl Konrad, Steßl-Mühlbacher, Stummvoll; Tamandl; Wenninger, Wittmann Peter, Wöinger, Worm.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e22938	We shall now proceed to the vote on Mr Ing's request. Hackl, the Consumer Protection Committee for reporting on Amendment 232/A(E) by Mrs Ing. Courts and colleagues on labelling requirements for meat, milk products and eggs of animals fed with GMOs shall be limited to 28. ==References== The vote has been taken on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of Credentials, As this request was made by 20 Members, the vote on the proposed time limit must be taken. The procedure is known. I would like to ask those Members who vote in favour of the deadline request to put “Yes” vote – i.e. the grey one – and those who vote against it “No” vote – these are the pink ones. I now ask the writing to carry out the name call.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e23002	The vote will end. I am interrupting the vote on the vote.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e23036	I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote: Members cast: 161; of which ‘Yes’ votes: 57, ‘No’ votes: 104. The deadline application is therefore rejected. (By way of derogation from the announcement of the voting behaviour by President Dr. Graf, the actual vote result is as follows: Votes cast: 161; of which ‘Yes’ votes: 57, ‘No’ votes: 103 (+ 1 invalid). Members voted in ‘Yes’: Brosz, Brunner, Bucher; Deimek, Dolinschek, Doppler; Gartelgruber, Grastaur, Graf, Grosz Gerald, Grünewald; Hackl Heinz-Peter, Hagen, Haider, Haubner Ursula, Herbert Werner, Höbart, Huber, Hübner; Jannach, jury; Karlsböck, Kitzmüller, Kogler, Königshofer, Korun, Kunasek; Lausch, Linder; Markowitz, Mayerhofer, Mühlberghuber, Musiol; Neubauer Werner; Oils; Pirklhuber, Podgorschek; Riemer, Rosary; Treasure, Scheibner, Spadiut, Stadler Ewald, Stefan, Steinhauser, Strache, Strutz; Tadler Erich, Themessl; Van der Bellen, Vock; Walser, Widmann Rainer, Windwood, Winter; Singer, Zinggl. Members voted with ‘No’: Ablinger, Amon, Aubauer, Auer Jacob, Auer Joseph, Bartenstein, Bayr, Becher, Binder- Maier, Buchmayr; Cap, Cortolezis scraper, Csörgits; Donabauer Karl, Donnerbauer Heribert, Transmitter; Eßl; Fazekas, Franz, Fuhrmann, Fürntrath-Moretti; Gahr, Gartlehner, Gaßner, Gessl-Ranftl, Glaser, Grillitsch; Hakel Elisabeth, Hakl Karin, Hammer, Haubner Peter, Hechtl, Heinzl, Hell, Höfinger, Hellerer, Hörl, Hornek, Huainigg; Ikrath; Jarolim; Kaipel, Katzian, Keck, Kirchgatterer, Clickovits, Köfer, Königsberger-Ludwig, Koßl, Krainer, Krist, Kuntzl, Kuzdas; Lapp, Lettenbichler, Lipitsch, Lohfeyer, Lueger Angela; Maier Ferdinand, Maier Johann, Matznetter, Mayer Elmar, Mayer Peter, Molterer. Musical, muttons; Neugebauer Fritz; Oberhauser, Obernosterer; Pack, Pendl, Plassnik, Plessl, Prehauser, Prammer, Praßl, Preiner, Prince; Rädler Johann, Riepl, Rudas; Sacher, Schickhofer, Schittenhelm, Schmielenschlager, Schönegger Bernd, Schönpass Rosemarie, Schopf, Schultes, Schüssel, Silhavy, Singer, Spindelberger, Steibl Ridi Maria, Steindl Konrad, Steßl-Mühlbacher, Stummvoll; Tamandl; Wenninger, Wittmann Peter, Wöinger, Worm.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e23247	We shall now proceed to the vote on the request by Mr Gartelgruber, the Equal Treatment Committee for Reporting on Amendment 1185/A(E) by Mr Gartelgruber, colleagues, on the preparation of a study on the situation of Muslim women and girls in Austria. ==References== The vote has been taken on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of Credentials, The request was made by 20 Members, so I am doing so. I would like to ask those Members who vote in favour of the deadline request to put “Yes” vote – i.e. the grey one – and those who vote against it “No” vote – these are the pink ones. I now ask the writing to carry out the name call.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e23306	Did everyone give up their voice? – The vote is thus terminated. I am interrupting the vote on the vote.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e23340	I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote: Votes cast 158; of which ‘Yes’ votes: 59, No votes: 99. The deadline application is therefore rejected. Members voted in ‘Yes’: Brosz, Brunner, Bucher; Deimek, Dolinschek, Doppler; Gartelgruber, Grastaur, Graf, Grosz Gerald, Grünewald; Hackl Heinz-Peter, Hagen, Haider, Haubner Ursula, Herbert Werner, Höbart, Huber, Hübner; Jannach, jury; Karlsböck, Kitzmüller, Kogler, Königshofer, Korun, Kunasek; Lausch, Linder; Markowitz, Mayerhofer, Mühlberghuber, Musiol; Neubauer Werner; Oils; Pirklhuber, Podgorschek; Riemer, Rosary; Treasure, Scheibner, Schwentner, Spadiut, Stadler Ewald, Stefan, Steinhauser, Strache, Strutz; Tadler Erich, Themessl; Inland waterways; Van der Bellen, Vock; Walser, Widmann Rainer, Windwood, Winter; Singer, Zinggl. Members voted with ‘No’: Ablinger, Amon, Aubauer, Auer Jacob, Auer Joseph, Bartenstein, Bayr, Becher, Binder-Maier, Buchmayr; Cap, Cortolezis scraper, Csörgits; Donabauer Karl, Donnerbauer Heribert, Transmitter; Eßl; Fazekas, Franz, Fuhrmann, Fürntrath-Moretti; Gahr, Gartlehner, Gaßner, Gessl-Ranftl, Glaser, Grillitsch; Hakel Elisabeth, Hakl Karin, Hammer, Haubner Peter, Hechtl, Heinzl, Hell, Höfinger, Hellerer, Hörl, Huainigg; Ikrath; Kaipel, Katzian, Keck, Kirchgatterer, Clickovits, Köfer, Königsberger-Ludwig, Kößl, Krainer, Krist, Kuntzl, Kuzdas; Lapp, Lettenbichler, Lipitsch, Lohfeyer, Lueger Angela; Maier Ferdinand, Maier Johann, Matznetter, Mayer Elmar, Mayer Peter, Molterer, Muchich, Muttonen; Neugebauer Fritz; Oberhauser, Obernosterer; Pack, Pendl, Plassnik, Plessl, Prehauser, Prammer, Praßl, Preiner, Prince; Rädler Johann, Riepl, Rudas; Sacher, Schickhofer, Schittenhelm, Schmielenschlager, Schönegger Bernd, Schönpass Rosemarie, Schopf, Schultes, Schüssel, Silhavy, Singer, Spindelberger, Steibl Ridi Maria, Steindl Konrad, Steßl-Mühlbacher, Stummvoll; Tamandl; Wenninger, weeinger, worm.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e23519	We shall now proceed to the vote on the request by Mr Neubauer, the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, to report on Amendment No 1113/A(E) by Mrs Neubauer, colleagues on the prohibition of neonicotinoid-beijzed maize seed. ==References== The vote has been taken on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of Credentials, The request is supported by 20 Members. That's why I'm doing this. The procedure is known. I now ask the writing to carry out the name call.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e23563	Have everyone had the opportunity to vote? - That's the case. I'll end the vote. I am interrupting the vote on the vote.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e23597	I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote: Members cast: 162; of which ‘Yes’ votes: 58, No votes: 104. The deadline application is therefore rejected. (By way of derogation from the announcement of the voting behaviour by President Dr. Graf, the actual vote result is as follows: Votes cast: 162; of which ‘Yes’ votes: 58, No votes: 102 (+2 invalid). ) Members voted in ‘Yes’: Brosz, Brunner, Bucher; Deimek, Dolinschek, Doppler; Gartelgruber, Grastaur, Graf, Grosz Gerald, Grünewald; Hackl Heinz-Peter, Hagen, Haider, Haubner Ursula, Herbert Werner, Höbart, Huber, Hübner; Jannach, jury; Karlsböck, Kitzmüller, Kogler, Königshofer, Korun, Kunasek; Lausch, Linder; Markowitz, Mayerhofer, Mühlberghuber, Musiol; Neubauer Werner; Oils; Pirklhuber, Podgorschek; Riemer, Rosary; Treasure, Scheibner, Schwentner, Spadiut, Stadler Ewald, Stefan, Strache, Strutz; Tadler Erich, Themessl; Inland waterways; Van der Bellen, Vock; Walser, Widmann Rainer, Windwood, Winter; Singer, Zinggl. With ‘No’, MEPs voted: Ablinger, Amon, Aubauer, Auer Jacob, Auer Joseph, Bartenstein, Bayr, Becher, Binder-Maier, Buchmayr; Cap, Cortolezis scraper, Csörgits; Donabauer Karl, Donnerbauer Heribert, Transmitter; Eßl; Fazekas, Franz, Fuhrmann, Fürntrath-Moretti; Gahr, Gäsner, Gessl-Ranftl, Glaser, Grillitsch; Hakel Elisabeth, Hakl Karin, Hammer, Haubner Peter, Hechtl, Heinzl, Hell, Höfinger, Hellerer, Hörl, Hornek, Huainigg; Ikrath; Jarolim; Kaipel, Katzian, Keck, Kirchgatterer, Clickovits, Köfer, Königsberger-Ludwig, Koßl, Krainer, Krist, Kuntzl, Kuzdas; Lapp, Lettenbichler, Lipitsch, Lohfeyer, Lueger Angela; Maier Ferdinand, Maier Johann, Matznetter, Mayer Elmar, Mayer Peter, Molterer, Muchich, Muttonen; Neugebauer Fritz; Oberhauser, Obernosterer; Pack, Pendl, Plassnik, Plessl, Prehauser, Prammer, Praßl, Preiner, Prince; Rädler Johann, Riepl, Rudas; Sacher, Schickhofer, Schittenhelm, Schmielenschlager, Schönegger Bernd, Schönpass Rosemarie, Schopf, Schultes, Schüssel, Silhavy, Singer, Spindelberger, Steibl Ridi Maria, Steindl Konrad, Steßl-Mühlbacher, Stummvoll; Tamandl; Wenninger, Wittmann Peter, Wöinger, Worm.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e23808	We shall now proceed to the vote on the request by Mr Mayerhofer, the Committee on Internal Affairs for reporting on Amendment 693/A(E) by Mr Mayerhofer, colleagues on better remuneration for executives in basic police training, a period of up to 28 years. ==References== Hiezu has been called for by 20 Members. That's why I'm doing this. The procedure is known. I now ask the writing to carry out the name call.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e23852	Did everyone have the opportunity to give up their voice? - That's the case. The vote will end. I am interrupting the vote on the vote.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e23886	I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote: Members cast: 162; of which ‘Yes’ votes: 59, No votes: 103. The deadline application is therefore rejected. Members voted in ‘Yes’: Brosz, Brunner, Bucher; Deimek, Dolinschek, Doppler; Gartelgruber, Grastaur, Graf, Grosz, Grünewald; Hackl Heinz-Peter, Hagen, Haider, Haubner Ursula, Herbert Werner, Höbart, Huber, Hübner; Jannach, jury; Karlsböck, Kitzmüller, Kogler, Königshofer, Korun, Kunasek; Lausch, Linder; Markowitz, Mayerhofer, Mühlberghuber, Musiol; Neubauer Werner; Oils; Pirklhuber, Podgorschek; Riemer, Rosary; Treasure, Scheibner, Schwentner, Spadiut, Stadler Ewald, Stefan, Steinhauser, Strache, Strutz; Tadler Erich, Themessl; Inland waterways; Van der Bellen, Vock; Walser, Widmann Rainer, Windwood, Winter; Singer, Zinggl. Members voted with ‘No’: Ablinger, Amon, Aubauer, Auer Jacob, Auer Joseph, Bartenstein, Bayr, Becher, Binder-Maier, Buchmayr; Cap, Cortolezis scraper, Csörgits; Donabauer Karl, Donnerbauer Heribert, Transmitter; Eßl; Fazekas, Franz, Fuhrmann, Fürntrath-Moretti; Gahr, Gartlehner, Gaßner, Gessl-Ranftl, Glaser, Grillitsch; Hakel Elisabeth, Hakl Karin, Hammer, Haubner Peter, Hechtl, Heinzl, Hell, Höfinger, Hellerer, Hörl, Hornek, Huainigg; Ikrath; Jarolim; Kaipel, Katzian, Keck, Kirchgatterer, Clickovits, Köfer, Königsberger-Ludwig, Koßl, Krainer, Krist, Kuntzl, Kuzdas; Lapp, Lettenbichler, Lipitsch, Lohfeyer, Lueger Angela; Maier Ferdinand, Maier Johann, Matznetter, Mayer Elmar, Mayer Peter, Molterer, Muchich, Muttonen; Neugebauer Fritz; Oberhauser, Obernosterer; Pack, Pendl, Plassnik, Plessl, Prehauser, Prammer, Praßl, Preiner, Prince; Rädler Johann, Rasinger, Riepl, Rudas; Sacher, Schickhofer, Schittenhelm, Schmielenschlager, Schönegger Bernd, Schönpass Rosemarie, Schopf, Schultes, Schüssel, Singer, Spindelberger, Steibl Ridi Maria, Steindl Konrad, Steßl-Mühlbacher, Stummvoll; Tamandl; Wenninger, Wittmann Peter, Wöinger, Worm.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e24068	We shall now proceed to the vote on the request by Mr Herbert, the Transport Committee for reporting on Mr Strache's motion for a resolution (Doc. The legislative period of the National Council is terminated prematurely, a period of until 28. ==References== The vote has been taken on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of Credentials, The request is supported by 20 Members. That's why I'm doing this. The procedure is known. I now ask the scribes to carry out the name call.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e24112	The vote will end. I am interrupting the vote on the vote.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e24146	I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote. Members cast: 162; of which ‘Yes’ votes: 59, No votes: 103. The deadline application is therefore rejected. Members voted in ‘Yes’: Brosz, Brunner, Bucher; Deimek, Dolinschek, Doppler; Gartelgruber, Grastaur, Graf, Grosz, Grünewald; Hackl Heinz-Peter, Hagen, Haider, Haubner Ursula, Herbert, Höbart, Huber, Hübner; Jannach, jury; Karlsböck, Kitzmüller, Kogler, Königshofer, Korun, Kunasek; Lausch, Linder; Markowitz, Mayerhofer, Mühlberghuber, Musiol; Neubauer Werner; Oils; Pirklhuber, Podgorschek; Riemer, Rosary; Treasure, Scheibner, Schwentner, Spadiut, Stadler Ewald, Stefan, Steinhauser, Strache, Strutz; Tadler Erich, Themessl; Inland waterways; Van der Bellen, Vock; Walser, Widmann Rainer, Windwood, Winter; Singer, Zinggl. Members voted with ‘No’: Ablinger, Amon, Aubauer, Auer Jacob, Auer Joseph, Bartenstein, Bayr, Becher, Binder-Maier, Buchmayr; Cap, Cortolezis scraper, Csörgits; Donabauer Karl, Donnerbauer Heribert, Transmitter; Eßl; Fazekas, Franz, Fuhrmann, Fürntrath-Moretti; Gahr, Gartlehner, Gaßner, Gessl-Ranftl, Glaser, Grillitsch; Hakel Elisabeth, Hakl Karin, Hammer, Haubner Peter, Hechtl, Heinzl, Hell, Höfinger, Hellerer, Hörl, Hornek, Huainigg; Jarolim; Kaipel, Katzian, Keck, Kirchgatterer, Clickovits, Köfer, Königsberger-Ludwig, Koßl, Krainer, Krist, Kuntzl, Kuzdas; Lapp, Lettenbichler, Lipitsch, Lohfeyer, Lueger Angela; Maier Ferdinand, Maier Johann, Matznetter, Mayer Elmar, Mayer Peter, Molterer, Muchich, Muttonen; Neugebauer Fritz; Oberhauser, Obernosterer; Pack, Pendl, Plassnik, Plessl, Prehauser, Prammer, Praßl, Preiner, Prince; Rädler, Rasinger, Riepl, Rudas; Sacher, Schickhofer, Schittenhelm, Schmielenschlager, Schönegger, Schönegger, Schönpass, Schopf, Schultes, Schüssel, Silhavy, Singer, Spindelberger, Steibl Ridi Maria, Steindl Konrad, Steßl-Mühlbacher, Stummvoll; Tamandl; Wenninger, Wittmann Peter, Wöinger, Worm.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e24325	Finally, we shall come to the vote on Mr Ing's request. Hackl, the Consumer Protection Committee for reporting on amendment 964/A(E) by Mrs Ing. Courts of Justice and colleagues on clear labelling of foods with genetically modified ingredients for a period of up to 28 years. ==References== The vote has been taken on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of Credentials, The request is supported by 20 Members. That's why I'm doing this. The procedure is known. I now ask the writing to carry out the name call.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e24369	The vote will end. I am interrupting the vote on the vote.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e24403	I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote. Members cast: 159; of which ‘Yes’ votes: 57, ‘No’ votes: 102. The deadline application is therefore rejected. Members voted in ‘Yes’: Brosz, Brunner, Bucher; Deimek, Dolinschek, Doppler; Gartelgruber, Grastaur, Graf, Grosz, Grünewald; Hackl Heinz-Peter, Hagen, Haider, Haubner Ursula, Herbert, Höbart, Huber, Hübner; Jannach, jury; Karlsböck, Kitzmüller, Kogler, Königshofer, Korun, Kunasek; Lausch, Linder; Markowitz, Mayerhofer, Mühlberghuber, Musiol; Oils; Pirklhuber, Podgorschek; Riemer, Rosary; Treasure, Scheibner, Schwentner, Spadiut, Stadler, Stefan, Steinhauser, Strache, Strutz; Tadler Erich, Themessl; Inland waterways; Vock; Walser, Widmann Rainer, Windwood, Winter; Singer, Zinggl. Members voted with ‘No’: Ablinger, Amon, Aubauer, Auer Jacob, Auer Joseph, Bartenstein, Bayr, Becher, Binder-Maier, Buchmayr; Cap, Cortolezis scraper, Csörgits; Donabauer Karl, Donnerbauer Heribert, Transmitter; Eßl; Fazekas, Franz, Fuhrmann, Fürntrath-Moretti; Gahr, Gartlehner, Gaßner, Gessl-Ranftl, Glaser, Grillitsch; Hakel Elisabeth, Hakl Karin, Hammer, Haubner Peter, Hechtl, Heinzl, Hell, Höfinger, Hellerer, Hörl, Hornek, Huainigg; Jarolim; Kaipel, Katzian, Keck, Kirchgatterer, Clickovits, Köfer, Königsberger-Ludwig, Koßl, Krainer, Krist, Kuntzl, Kuzdas; Lapp, Lettenbichler, Lipitsch, Lohfeyer, Lueger Angela; Maier Ferdinand, Maier Johann, Matznetter, Mayer Elmar, Mayer Peter, Molterer, Muchich, Muttonen; Neugebauer Fritz; Oberhauser, Obernosterer; Pendl, Plassnik, Plessl, Prehauser, Prammer, Praßl, Preiner, Prinz; Rädler, Rasinger, Riepl, Rudas; Sacher, Schickhofer, Schittenhelm, Schmielenschlager, Schönegger, Schönegger, Schönpass, Schopf, Schultes, Schüssel, Silhavy, Singer, Spindelberger, Steibl Ridi Maria, Steindl Konrad, Steßl-Mühlbacher, Stummvoll; Tamandl; Wenninger, Wittmann Peter, Wöinger, Worm. [[21:21:10]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2011-03-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00099_d7e24585	I am still announcing that in today's session, self-employed requests were made for 1472/A(E) to 1493/A(E). Questions 8097/J to 8152/J were also raised. The next meeting of the National Council is scheduled for Thursday, 31. March 2011, 9 o'clock, one. The agenda will be delivered by the clubs. The session will begin at a Question Time. This meeting is closed.
