ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e3401	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen! I'll open the meeting. As prevented, MEPs are reported to be Gessl-Ranftl, Mag. Johann Maier, Großruck, Dr. Königshofer, Themessl and Mag. Jarmer. [[09:05:53]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e3435	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e3612	I announce that this meeting will be transferred live to ORF 2 by 1 p.m. and to TW 1. [[09:06:13]] Request for a brief debate on the response to the question 8336/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e3633	Before entering the agenda, I would like to say that, in accordance with § 92 of the Rules of Procedure, there is a desire to hold a brief debate on the reply 8336/AB of Question No 8425/J by Mrs Walser, colleagues on advertising links for the New Middle School by the Federal Minister for Education, Arts and Culture. This brief debate takes place in accordance with § 57a para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure after completion of the agenda, but at least at 3 p.m. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e3655	The debate on points 4 and 5, 6 to 8, 9 and 10, 13 and 14, 16 to 23, 24 and 25 and 27 and 28 of the agenda is proposed. On the other hand, is there an objection? - That's not the case. Let's go into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e3681	The draft agenda and the duration of the debate on consensus were reached between the members of the President-in-Office's Conference. Accordingly, a day block time of 8 ‘Vienna hours’ has been agreed, so that the following speaking times arise: SPÖ and ÖVP each 112, FPÖ 100, Green 88 and BZÖ 84 minutes. Agenda item 1: EU declaration and debate pursuant to § 74b of the Rules of Procedure shall not be included in the day-blocking period. The following Rules of Procedure were also proposed for the period from 1 p.m. to 1 p.m.: Unprejudicial to Agenda item 1: Declaration by the Federal Minister 15 minutes, a round with 10 minutes each, a member of the government SPÖ 5 minutes and then two rounds of speakers with 5 minutes each. The order is: first round FPÖ, SPÖ, Green, ÖVP, BZÖ, the remaining rounds according to political strength. For the agenda item 2: a round of speakers with 7 minutes each, a member of government ÖVP 7 minutes and then three rounds each with 4 minutes. The order of speakers: first round FPÖ, SPÖ, Green, ÖVP, BZÖ, the remaining rounds by group size. Actual corrections are only called after the end of the television transmission in ORF 2. Before the beginning of the last round, the President-in-Office shall distribute the remaining time in such a way that all political groups will be able to speak evenly in the television era. According to § 57 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure Act, I suggest that the Members' speaking time should be limited to 10 minutes per debate without any club membership. We shall now proceed to the vote on the proposal for the agenda which has just been notified. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. [[09:09:26]] 1. Point EU Declaration by the Federal Minister for Finance pursuant to § 74b para. (b) Rules of Procedure of the National Council
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e3749	We're now on the 1st. Agenda item. I give the floor to the Federal Minister for Finance Dr. Fekter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e3774	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! Values Advisors! High house! Greece has been so indebted that over a year ago, it was only able to borrow money from the financial sector at exorbitant interest rates. As a result, Greece has asked its Euro partners for help. At European level, but also at national level, intensive advice has been given on how aid can look for Greece. At that time, it was calculated in all the details what would be done if Greece were to plead or if Greece were to be pleaded: What possible consequences and costs would that have? What would be needed to get Greece back on track? What would the renovation cost, and how can such a renovation be optimally done? At the beginning of 2010, i.e. more than a year ago, the options looked forward. The restructuring programme with loans granted by the countries to the Greeks would cost Austria, at the time calculated, €2.3 billion. As I said, Loans, no gifts of money! If the program works to implement structural reforms in addition to the help with money, then we get interest and the money back. The variant 2 at that time, indebtedness of Greece, would have meant a damage to us in Austria of around €5 billion immediately. That was the money in pension funds, insurance, investment funds in Greek bonds in Austria at the time. Thus Austrian pensioners, Austrian policyholders, Austrian savers through the investment funds would immediately have lost money. At the same time, in the event of Greece's inability to pay, in the event of a pleite, it would not have been possible to predict the enormous consequences that had been achieved throughout the euro area, in other countries or in the Balkans, where Greek banks are very committed, but also our banks are very committed. We could not have stopped – and this has been discussed intensively – how the crisis of confidence would have affected the entire euro area. This risk was estimated at up to €40 billion. So we see, ladies and gentlemen, that the path taken at that time was to help and to reorganise through reforms that were much more favourable and also with the lower risk. Of course, this path is painful and still poses risks in itself, but it is undisputed that it would have been unwise to follow the expensive path and not the path of rehabilitation, which has been much cheaper. [[Abg. Bucher: You say it's a business!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's all a business, we've heard! So we're not doing business, are we?]] It was clear to us from the beginning... – Mr. Westenthaler, I never – never! – claims it’s a business! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Is it a business or not?]] [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Interim calls at BZÖ and FPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler:... Alzheimer's?]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: This is a business, you said!]] Mr Westenthaler, I do not let the floor turn around in my mouth. I have said here in the House that the Austrian taxpayer has so far not lost a euro, but has so far succeeded 32 million interest from the Greeks. That's it. You then put me in the mouth then, I would have claimed it would be a business, that you must answer. [[Hö-Rufe at BZÖ and representatives of the FPÖ]] I have just made it clear that it has not cost the Austrian taxpayers any euro so far, because we are granting loans. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] The path taken for Greece has also included the involvement of the International Monetary Fund in this reorganisation. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Who writes your speeches?]] The International Monetary Fund has decades of expertise in rehabilitating Marod States, bringing them back to growth. That is why I have also said here in the House that Austria has been involved for as long as the International Monetary Fund is involved. Only if the International Monetary Fund has confidence in the actions of the Greeks will we also have confidence. All programmes were therefore coordinated with the IMF, and the IMF, together with the European Central Bank in Greece, is monitoring that the measures are also being implemented. What measures are these? Firstly, a protective shield over the financial system with loans, secondly a structural programme that brings the Greeks back to growth, and thirdly, a privatisation programme, a budget consolidation rate so that the Greeks themselves contribute to debt reduction. What is the current state of Greece's aid? Since last year, Austria has granted the Greeks a loan of over €2 billion. So far, the Greeks have received 1.2 billion. The current tranche we are to pay is 156 million. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Socks!]] An unprecedented effort has therefore been made in Greece – and we also thank the Greek people and the Greek Government for their intensive contribution. [[Abg. May. Stadler: We thank the Greeks for taking our money?! – That is not to be grasped!]] As painful as this is, you can see that it is also discussed intensively in Greece and is also rejected by some parts of the population of this saving course. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: “Thank you, Greeks! ”]] [[Cheerfulness at the BZÖ.]] At present, the Troika, namely the European Central Bank, the Monetary Fund and the European Commission, has controlled the package of the Greeks and called for new measures by the Greeks on 30 June. It has also been decided on June. In other words, the Greeks are now calling for a consistent budget consolidation, a saving course, but also structural reforms to help the economy back on its feet. Why do I say that it is difficult for the Greek people too? – I now call you a few examples, and there is no such thing as ridiculousness. The Greeks will have to pay more VAT, 23 percent in the future. There is an increase in taxes on fuel, tobacco, alcohol; there are expected to be €450 million. There is a reduction in holiday, Christmas and Easter pay for employment in the public service. Savings: 1.1 billion. It comes to cuts in holiday, Christmas and Easter allowances for pensioners. Savings: 1.9 billion. There are cuts in the highest pensions. Savings: up to 500 million. The abolition of inflation compensation for pensioners brings savings of 100 million. [[Abg. Neubauer: Say what it costs the Austrians!]] The introduction of a CO2 tax brings revenue of at least 300 million. There is a gradual increase in the retirement age for women to 65 years. The number of contribution years required for a full pension is increased from 37 to 40 years. From 2020, the age limit will be reviewed every three years in the light of increasing life expectancy. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, this is a really painful consolidation and saving course that the Greeks have to drive! However, we do not only demand a saving course, but we also call for structural reforms. The Greeks have to get back on their feet with growth. Saving alone is not enough, so in addition to this painful savings rate there are also offensive measures to stimulate the Greek economy and to increase competitiveness on the one hand and to strengthen it on the other. [[Congratulation with ÖVP and SPÖ]] Between 2011 and 2015, only every tenth post will be re-occupied in the public service. This reduces the number of government servants by 20 percent, from 727 000 to 577 000. There are deregulations in the case of access to work. Greece has a very intense, almost monopolistic regulation in many sectors. Now, for example, monopolies are being broken down in vocational training, and bottlenecks in licensing are being eliminated. There is also a liberalisation of transport. For example, there are currently very strict licences for tourist buses, and with this the system is caught. This is to be prepared for competition and a comprehensive liberalisation is to be carried out. This reduces transport costs for the Greek economy and eliminates bottlenecks. The same applies to the licensing of yielders and also to other sectors which are admitted to competition in accordance with the Internal Market Directives. The Greeks are getting new rules for business start-ups, a so-called one-stop shop principle. This reduces the duration to up to one day, so that it is fast to engage in business activities. The cost reduction is up to 62 percent. Liberalization in the energy sector: The free network access that has not yet been implemented for all energy producers is realized – something that is European standard, but has not been implemented in Greece. As a result, there are more favourable energy prices for the economy and consumers. In the field of education, new quality checks are regularly introduced for teachers, and all day schools are extended. The Troika has also proposed a comprehensive reform of the judicial system in order to make it more transparent on the one hand and to speed up the procedures on the other. Then, with privatisations, Greece must contribute to the reduction of debt, but also, much more importantly, to the boosting of the economy. The privatizations are a key point in the overall package. Greece has above-average assets in corporate and real estates compared to Europe, and some businesses are operated exclusively by the state. The opportunity has so far been used insufficiently, as more market and competition and thus more economic growth can be generated. A wealth of state-owned enterprises only incur significant costs. That is to say, one can contribute to fiscal consolidation, but also to boosting the economy. There is therefore an overall programme that Greece must implement a privatisation programme in order to reduce its public debt by 20 percent and at the same time boost the economy. [[Abg. Neubauer: You have to give this speech in Athens!]] What is specifically affected by this? – State banks are sold, the electricity, gas and water market is made European lawmaking, privatised and liberalised under the Services Directive. Telekom has already achieved a first step through the sale of 10 percent of OTE to Deutsche Telekom, which helps to bring more competition. To post: 40 percent of the market can generate more competition here. Lotteries are to be privatized, ports and airports are privatized. This includes in particular the port in Piraeus and the airport of Athens. This will create more competition, and the transport sector will boost the economy in this regard. The motorway operators are also privatized. This also leads to cost reductions in transport and less public expenditure on infrastructure because it can be co-financed through the market. The European Commission is also supporting Greece. It has announced that € 1 billion of payments for Greece from EU Structural Funds should be preferred in order to support the site. In addition, the Commission intends to meet the Greeks on the issue of co-financing: The proportion of Greeks is to be kept as low as possible, so that the whole is made manageable despite the budgetary problems. The Troika – I already mentioned it: The European Commission, the Central Bank and the International Monetary Fund have carefully analysed, monitored and evaluated these measures by the Greeks in a report. In this report, all three have said that Greece can now achieve debt sustainability, i.e. a sustainability of debt, although it will take a little more time than originally planned. In this way, Greece has fulfilled the objectives set out and all three – the central bank, the Commission and the IMF – recommend disbursement of the fifth tranche. We will do so as far as the IMF also makes its disbursements. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, you see, there is a total package: Loans to stabilise the financial sector in Greece, but also structural reforms to bring Greece back to a growth path. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e4021	We are going into the debate. The Rules of Procedure are known. The first speaker is Mr Klubobmann Strache. Speech time: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e4048	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In the whole debate on the Greek aid package, there is an aspect that I think is particularly bleak, namely that it is always done as if the Austrian taxpayers, who are now to be pumped with SPÖ and ÖVP support in this aid package, were to come directly to the aid of the Greek population and as if the Greek population had some of it. Unfortunately, this is not the case, and this is a very, very tedious circumstance, which you have to work out, of course, because I remember: Greece would never have – never! – may be included in the eurozone. [[Abg. Krainer: “Abrasive” is your style!]] [[Further call at the SPÖ: “Dear” is the hypo!]] We have been working on budget falsifications, and Greece, although there were clear criteria for the euro area, has been included in the euro area – and that was irresponsible! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We have not taken ourselves seriously from the European Union with the self-defined criteria, and we have not taken the emergency brake. The Greeks would have had to be released from the euro zone at the latest, when one knew that one was dizzy and lying that one had to deal with budget counterfeiting! You didn't take yourself seriously, and you're still not ready to get rid of your mistakes. They are still in a situation in which you continue to follow your mistake, but also the Austrian population with them. – This is exactly the basic problem. With these billions of Austrian taxpayers, we could improve the situation of Austrians here in the country, while with these billions you send to Greece, the situation for the Greek population is dramatically worsening because you do not live solidarity. [[Abg. Head: No, we'd make them worse if we didn't!]] The only solidarity you live is with the European banks and with the ECB. – This is your solidarity! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That's exactly the truth you have to say. Of course you also conceal that the Oesterreichische National Bank, as you can hear – until now you have not really answered all the requests we have made – has also bought between €4 billion and €5 billion in government bonds, which are of course also missing here. They're talking about the €2.3 billion that flows into the Greek aid package in cash capital, but they're not saying that of course there are other liabilities behind that, too, through which we bind our capital. You should not ignore that either. It was not the Greek population that brought about this disaster either. You have to say that again. It was the big banks, the speculators and also the Greek governments and the Greek politicians who acted irresponsibly. [[Abg. Head: The population has chosen it!]] Of course, I am also opposed if one pretends to be like all the Greek Gauners, as if all the Greeks were people who had exploited anyone. [[Abg. Krainer: There's no such thing as that!]] No, it was the banks, the speculators and the Greek politicians – including socialist governments – who led Greece into this pleite and this high debt! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Of course, the Greeks and the Greek population are as victims as the Austrian population. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Krainer.]] They are just as victims of your policy: the Austrian population, just as the Greek population has become victims of the politics there, victims of speculators and a socialist policy with budget lies. And finally, military budgets have been decided and in the last decades in Greece, 200 billion euros have been invested in military expenditure! – One has to point out this grand development! I understand the protest of Greek citizens. They even say on the posters: Get out of the euro! because they themselves realize that your package will not help them. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The mistake and the error was to force weak economies such as Greece, Portugal, Ireland and Spain into a European euro-force jacket, although they do not meet the criteria. This is what we liberals have said at the beginning of the introduction of the euro. Unfortunately, we have kept God's right today to say that it is dangerous and senseless to force different economies into a common euro-force jacket, because this, of course, also meant misdevelopments, as we experience them today. It is precisely those large banks and speculators that now want to put the money of Austrian and European taxpayers into the greedy sluggish. It is not about the people of Greece, but also about the Austrian citizens, who have enough problems. Please, let's remember! We are pretending to be in a very, very excellent situation today. On the contrary, we have a dramatic debt, and we have to stress that over and over again. Since the German Chancellor Werner Faymann alone, we have accumulated 44 billion additional debts. Today we are 205 billion euros of government debt, which are officially granted and admitted – without the outsourced areas of ÖBB and ASFINAG and without the liabilities. That's where we get up to €360 billion. Since, one has to say, in comparison Bruno Kreisky was an orphan, with €16 billion of public debt he caused at the time – and today we are €360 billion when you calculate everything together! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There is still nothing to be done when it comes to bringing about a structural change. On the contrary, one helps to keep this system running. That's exactly the basic problem! This system is further supported by relief from those banks that have caused the damage and whose failures have to take over the citizens of Europe. – This is the game, instead of going here and saying that the banks, which have made large speculation transactions and profits, and who have had to suffer speculation losses in succession, have themselves paid for the costs. Instead of thinking about how to ensure a banking bankruptcy order, so that those responsible finally have to face the damage themselves, go here and socialize these debts. This is the basic problem, and no longer understands it. Just by doing so, you point out that you want to maintain and maintain this faulty system and are not willing to change it at all. You can address yourself to the speaker's desk a hundred times, Mr. Klubobmann Cap, and talk about it, you wish for the transaction tax. – Yes, it belongs to Europe, not a question! But it is not in sight – no trace of it in Europe! Stephan Schulmeister of the Wifo made a guest contribution in the “FORMAT” of 24. June 2011 wrote that politics has watched “the financial acrobats begin to speculate with ‘credit default swaps’ against states from November 2009. This driven the bond interest rates of about 4.5 percent in double-digit heights. First came Greece, then Ireland and Portugal – Spain, Italy and Belgium are already on the agenda of US rating agencies and financial alchemy banks (Goldman Sachs, Deutsche Bank etc.).)’ At the time, they also provided the Greeks with the budget lies and the wrong budget figures. And on top of that: ‘Instead of intervening in this process, one adjusted to the thickness ‘of the market’: Rescue shields were founded and extended – for a sequence of fires one did not look for the burners, but created more fire brigades.” – As one has to add, ultimately without having the necessary extinguishing water. This is the basic problem: We should have looked for the arsons from the beginning, and we should have turned them off. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You didn't do that, instead you bought additional disposal cars, so to speak, and now comes on it: Hold, at the end of the day we're missing the water! – Of course, speculation continues, as we see, from Greece towards Spain, Portugal, Ireland and cetera. There's no end in sight, quite the opposite: Through your continuation of the wrong path, you will only be quite arousing speculation, because the banks know: Hurra, we can keep on speculating, because at the end of the day the taxpayers will be asked by the red and black politicians to check out our damage that we have to suffer. – This is exactly what is happening. At first and foremost, the role of the rating agencies, which, by their assessment, substantially influence the interest rates for individual countries, is critically highlighted, as these agencies act extremely intrusively and self-evidently. In view of the effects of their assessment, it is therefore all the more worrying. The European Union could then demonstrate the benefits it has and prove them by resisting this drive. This is not the case, however, but one is afraid and is not willing to take action. That is why it is so important to highlight this question very clearly. We say it has to be considered about alternatives. They're talking about bans on thinking. You're saying it's all kind of alternate what you're presenting here. - No! There are always several alternatives, and we also need to think openly and honestly about what alternatives there are. It must be pointed out that there are also European countries that are not currently in the euro-forced jacket and that have really great numbers and developments. 27 percent of the world's foreign assets are parked in Switzerland today. This figure also shows that trust and security are valued internationally by the volunteers. These were still in liquidity difficulties three years ago in the course of the economic crisis, and today the Swiss UBS bank ultimately has a equity ratio of 20 percent. Austria and other European banks are far from this, ladies and gentlemen. As early as 2010, non-euro countries such as Sweden, Switzerland, Poland and the Czech Republic had the highest GDP growth in Europe. After your prognosis at the beginning of the euro introduction, all of them today have to stand in front of the pleite – the very opposite is the case! I would therefore like to conclude by saying: Our money for our people! We have big problems ourselves. We must invest for our families, for our people in need of care, for our education and not pump our tax money somewhere in the banking system of Europe.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e4204	Mr Klubobmann's next speech is Dr. Cap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e4236	Madam President. High house! I believe that we should get into a debate on this financial system, that we should really try to find solutions, and that we should also call the debtors by name who constantly prevent and torpedo this or simply have other interests. It is a phenomenon that the general public budgets have problems. Look at the debate in the United States: 100 percent of GDP in debt! We register one article after another, in which we wonder if the US can save itself from any state bankruptcy at all – the most important, largest economic power in the world! You know the degree of indebtedness of many European countries, but when we discuss Austria, we should discuss why so many large economies in the European Union have a higher degree of indebtedness than Austria – for example France, Germany and other important countries. That is to say, it is a phenomenon that goes through across and that cannot be tried with individual actions to get hold of, but it is a structural problem. [[Abg. The system! That's right! Stay by the system!]] It is about the tasks of public budgets, and I say: The tasks of the public budget are a mix of economic components, economic promotion, infrastructure that needs to be made available, which, of course, means location security, which should be an incentive for investors, therefore, to counteract the ruinous tax competition in the European Union, which is quite negative and which must be tried. - That's one of the tasks. The second task of public budgets is to ensure the social component, to develop social security, to protect health systems, to protect pension systems, to ensure that all this is in tough competition with economies, with very low wages, very low social standards, with very low environmental standards such as East Asia, the Chinese economy and Asia as a whole. [[Abg. Bookbooker: Social Justice!]] [[Abg. Strache: That would be necessary!]] There's always so loose talk about it: We privatize the road of Corinth or the port of Piraeus and so on! The fact that they contribute and bring in more competition with privatizations is in itself a rather superior matter and is now also being done, but you have to ask yourself the question of who then buys out strategic. This is the question that needs to be raised worldwide in the energy sector. [[Abg. Strache: These are the same banks you're helping now!]] I see China as a country with which we are in a positive competition, but I do not know if I would like to see a country in the overall energy sector as a whole, or that ports and transport are increasingly holding a hand on it. That is the question that needs to be discussed. Not only can you say that privatisation is basically good, and that will automatically make everything better. Once again, nothing is at all at all, but the question that arises is another. The question now arises as to how this is in Austria. Austria has 8.4 million inhabitants, one of 27 member countries of the European Union. 24 or 25 of the other Member States actually have a different view on many issues than our Federal Government, and the main problem is that there are mainly conflicting interests in the question of how we get to grips with the impact of the financial market crisis and what rules we can take, because the financial crisis has an impact on the real economy, on the active entrepreneurs, on the workforce and has brought the crisis there. The speculators and the financial markets, which are not regulated, are a destructive factor in relation to the whole economy and the many active and committed entrepreneurs and employees. How can you handle this? – Now, for example, Barroso has made a start and proposed: Let's do a financial transaction tax! – The resistance is constantly coming from the same countries, especially a country, the UK, in its capital city London, in London City, this financial market has its centre. [[Abg. Bookbook: No, a European VAT!]] They say: If we go there, then it marches to Hong Kong or New York, and what do we have about it? [[Abg. Head: Who benefited from it?]] But that can't be the consideration. The consideration must be that of how to protect the productive economy, and the consideration must be: If I protect them when I clean up public budgets, how do I clean them up, who is used to clean up public budgets? And here, I tell you, justice is a crucial aspect, in principle moral, but also economic. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Justice is also a productive factor, because if the people have something in the wallet if the pensioners have a bad adjustment when the wages are voting – and because of our trade unions wages are voting in Austria, because of the previous adjustments the pensions are voting in Austria! – if we make sure that the people here have something in the wallet, then the economy flourishes, then something moves. [[Abg. Kickl: Oh, that's it? Excuse me?]] This is not only a model for Austria, it is also a model for rehabilitation in Greece and in comparable other European countries. There are rules made, there must be a vote on distribution justice, one must, in principle, talk about the tasks and funding of public budgets, and one must think about – and not just think, but also act – how to manage the independence of the financial markets. This is the decisive one, and I believe there is economic failure, a failure of many of the famous super top managers who are always present with good advice. Mr. Ackermann from Deutsche Bank always gives his advice and always does so, so whether his bank is a social institution, and will now realize profits again, namely € 4 billion in core business and € 6 billion in speculation. - They're going as far as they used to be. [[Abg. Strache: Austria too! Austria as well!]] [[Abg. Bookbooker: Municipal credit!]] [[Abg. Strache: Also the Bavarian hypo!]] Then there are banks that don't. You know what I'm for? I am in favour of finally establishing an alliance between those in the real economy, the banks that do not, and, of course, politics, and also against individual countries in the European Union, and then speaking plainly, because these changes must be addressed in our interest! Now I'm telling you something: I am in favour of the peace project, social project, cultural project European Union. I say that the eurozone is not a value in itself, but one has to ask the question: What does it bring to the European Economic Area in the toughest competition with China, with other Asian countries, with the United States and so on? And: What does it bring to Austria? [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Dr. Hübner.]] And that's where I tell you: This discussion that we have to think about Austria is particularly important, because I claim that the Eurozone has brought much to Austria. [[Abg. Bucher: But you don't do that right now! You do the opposite!]] If we have achieved €27.5 billion for our economy since the euro, it has made us richer, more secure jobs, we are a country that lives primarily from exports, as well as other countries, then we need this Eurozone, because there are 1 million jobs in the export economy in Austria – 500 000 in the euro area alone. [[Abg. Strache: But higher imports than exports take place, you also have to say that! By €4.3 billion more imports!]] I would ask you to take this into account, otherwise you will have to say: I'm a political poker player, and if I'm wrong, 1 million people lose their jobs. - I guess that can't be. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The same is true of our contribution to the European Union. If you look closely at this: Once again, € 1.8 million goes back immediately, and the rest indirectly goes back several times and again because we are the profiters. [[Abg. Strache: But you have to say that we have a higher import than export!]] - No! “Our money for our leech!” is true. It really is because we are a member of the European Union and because there is the Eurozone. [[Abg. All a business!]] You must finally hold this debate here at an objective level. Don't always bring belly arguments, and don't always come with the tribal table arguments. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] [[Abg. Strache: Don't sell people for stupid!]] It lives the tribal table, but it also has a right that it be informed rationally and that it is confronted with real facts. That, I think, is very crucial once. [[New applause at the SPÖ.]] I therefore conclude that there is a whole chain of advantages here for Austria. It has nothing to do with altruism! We all love Greece. I even learned Greek in school. I can even read what is going on in Greece, but I tell you, that is all no value in itself. [[Abg. It's all a business, isn't it? It's all a business!]] I want a strong Europe not to become a gameball of economic global interests and that we cannot be speculated by any dark forces. [[Abg. Strache: But you make yourselves balls! You and the people!]] That's where politics has to rip itself. By the way, because you said that Greece should not have been included: The liberals could have vetoed in 2000 at that time, and Greece would not have been included. [[Abg. Strache: Your Viktor Climate has signed the reception contract! Your Federal Chancellor Viktor Klima has signed the contract!]] You were still with the liberals. You could've taken a veto. If only you'd been with me! I'm just saying, just an information. There is a deficit in the middle, and I would like to weigh this deficit. You could have put in a veto. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But I'm telling you: A strong Europe, a strong currency, and we all benefit from it. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: What has become of the ancient Greeks?]] We need this strong Europe because we do not want to be the subject of any dark developments, and that is why this failure that has actually been done must be brought to justice. Stephan Schulmeister is right: It has been seen too long, I admit, from the large countries that are now yelling around. When Germany and France sit together, but also England, the world looks quite different. We've got to get in there. We must be the stem in the flesh so that this change takes place. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at FPÖ and BZÖ.]] – Yes, exactly, write this down! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: A garden hose!]] Finally, a stronger saying than the sad sayings on your posters, because we want these changes – in our interest, in the interests of Austria, in the interests of the Austrian population, but because we find this way there best by all parties working together. Let's not separate from one another! National unity for the interests of Austria in the fight for a functioning Europe and a stable euro-currency, that is the commandment of the day!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e4627	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e4649	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Josef Cap – yes, eh. But where are you all this game? Where is the Austrian government? I will certainly accept the role of Austria, because it would be much more possible for the Austrian Government to contribute to the European Councils in Brussels. We got the problem again right now. They stand out, give great speeches, more or less appealing, and it is not even understandable what the Federal Chancellor did at the last Council in Brussels when it came to these issues. [[Abg. Riepl: Have a good speech!]] To date, it is not clear what he has done, and the statement by the Federal Minister here and today has not brought much light in either, because essentially you have presented the Commission's communiqué here. But it is not at all clear what your contribution is and what your role is. Austria could play a stronger role. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But all in all: Greece and the crisis there are not to be considered isolated, which is taking place against a larger background. I don't know which interests are all in play at all. This is not so easy to see, you should admit. However, I do not understand, and I am also quite sure that it cannot be so that the whole of the euro has to come to a standstill through budget crises in Portugal and Greece. This is a hysterical wave that is released that is transported to cause greater damage. I can't explain this differently. Let's take a look at the facts: Greece and Portugal have very few percent of the entire European economic area from economic performance. Even if we were to halve the Greek debt overnight and take it out of the system, that would not make up even 1% of the annual economic performance of the entire euro area. It must be manageable if you want to! Of course, there are problems in detail, but that must be manageable. That is why the question arises as to what the possibilities and alternatives are, and that is why we oppose, Mrs. Federal Minister, that everything is always treated as an alternative, and that it is said that only this one path leads to the goal, which may not be recognized by so few as a dead end, where you then produce the problem of credibility and then the others, as it were, can still cook their political soup on this small fire that you can fire with. If it is true that we in Europe are strong enough to deal with this, then once again the question will have to be allowed, which is actually the right instrument. – Today no one dares to say it any more: Of course, it would be necessary and useful to have a deepened Union in order to be able to go along with the whole of the drive. Of course! And it would not be a loss of sovereignty for the Austrians, the Germans, the French citizens, if certain competences were given, but a gain in sovereignty if there were to be the right policy – that is, of course, provided. It is perfectly clear that one can only deal with these things with European measures that have the power and effect of doing so. That is why I am also opposed to the anti-European tones, which are constantly swinging here, because this is only making things worse. If you believe that you can solve the Greek and Portugal crises through more nationalism, you will be on the completely wrong steamer anyway and will deliberately want something else. - It can only be that way. [[Congratulations on Greens, SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Let's stick to the overall context! It's completely absurd how things twist. It has not been two years since we were all standing out here – probably someone from every group – and one has at least thought about it on this side, and on this side the slogans have already been carved, and it has been said: [[the speaker turns toward ÖVP]] [[the speaker turns towards SPÖ]] Yes, now we have it again, for decades neoliberal deregulation! to use your words. Unbundling the financial markets, this and that – yes, it may be something – and this has led to a crisis in the financial markets that has spread over the real economy. This is the tragedy of this interdependence, because if the so-called speculators enter into bets with themselves and push the money back and forth and the rest of the economy works, then we might not care, then that would be a question of the gambling law. But that's not the way it is, because that has real consequences. What was it? – States had to get into the cash register and at least support the many private individuals involved in the game, including banks, insurances et cetera. It was not so bad because of these rescue arrests, but in principle the states had to support it. It's also a lot of cash flown. Of course, this has increased the debt of the States, of course. In addition, we had to invest in the real economy so that the crisis didn't hit so much – that was right too. I don't understand why you don't better represent and defend this. It wasn't all wrong. But now to get in the back, namely that the states are now again the villains, because they have higher deficits, and that of those who have previously caused the sludge, is not correct. There should really be more common power now in order to resist it. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But that must be organized. It does not help if the states or the Heads of Government play out each other constantly and do not reach a successful agreement, for then – unfortunately – there would not be the necessary economic progress in Europe. These few basics would have to lead to a proper start and start. It's the whole thing, too. Talk about public debt in the place where the government debt itself is described as evil and bad. If the private have surpluses, they have to give up the money somewhere – that is absolutely clear. There is a creditor for every debt and vice versa. Of course, it is the states that usually owe themselves if households have more. This is in itself a very normal process, the question is only: How high have the debt been, and what has been invested for? That's the question. Enough's gone wrong. The debt in Europe is now on average at a level where they should be pushed back because otherwise the interest payments are too high, which is, in any case, only, as described before, a redistribution problem from the poor to the rich. And in that are the causes. That is why it would have been there – I am now going to Greece for a short time; since most of the milk has already been spilled, unfortunately, one has to say – it has been useful and correct to look at three levels. First: How will those involved, who are well deserved or who, in order to take up your terms regarding banks and speculators again, have cashed? Secondly, What does it have to do to make them really get on their feet? How do we need to invest in this economy? – Because otherwise it doesn't make sense, otherwise they can never pay anything back at all. And thirdly, Structural reforms there, because in some countries there are enough indebtedness. This should not be discussed at all, and I am not prepared to do so for the Green Group just because it could sound chauvinistic. The problems there are enormous. It must be said that speculation, as it is generally understood, naturally has a real relation, because of course it always takes the best place where certain mistakes have happened. That's clear. Therefore, from the point of view of the individual state, a reasonable savings policy, investment policy and balance of payments balance policy would be the best immunisation against these speculative waves. Well, in Greece the milk is spilled. We said it over a year ago: They're actually partly insolvent. If there had been something like an orderly compensation procedure – and if one had to work on it in the future – one could have done it relatively quickly; in some cases, who knows it very well. Then, of course, the participation of those who want you and also us inside would have been guaranteed. The second point is – and still can and must happen – an investment programme to increase the sustainability of the Greek economy. And the third is structural reforms there. It is indeed not to be seen that in the last ten years – these are our figures, which sound different from those mentioned above – € 70 billion in arms investments, went into arms purchase. That's 35 times the Austrian Eurofighter acquisition, that's huge! By the way – so you can understand the cycle –: The money was not there, because it is now in France and in Germany with the armaments companies, which has only been carried through. These companies sold on a note of debt. That is why there are these economic imbalances, which are balanced. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] That's how it could and should work. In conclusion: Mrs. Federal Minister! In order to prevent such things in the future, of course, we need this orderly compensation procedure with the possibility of sharing debt and the participation of banks and investors – as well as in private – otherwise we will not solve this problem of justice. Of course, we need the financial transaction tax, and we would need such a thing as euro bonds, even though most have not yet understood how it works. [[Abg. Bookers: These would be even higher interest rates!]] But it's relatively simple: It is not true that Germany and Austria would therefore have to pay higher interest rates, because if we were to impose a large euro bond that is profitable for investors, an interest rate advantage would already arise from this, and the triple A countries might then be relatively pari, but the entire euro area would be cheaper in the interest area. [[Abg. Bucher: Of course!]] In fact, the high interest rates are the problem for these states, and they would not come out otherwise. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] These are proposals. – Bring Please, Mrs. Federal Minister! Finally, I would like to draw your attention to this – so that this is also contained in the Minutes; that is already the last sentence –: Tell the Council on Monday, if you require the ESM Treaty, that the two-thirds majority required for this Treaty is not guaranteed in the Austrian Parliament. Then: If you, Faymann and the government, now do not have to fight crediblely for the goals that we have heard from Cap all the time, then this two-thirds majority will not be given!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e4782	Mr Klubobmann's head is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e4804	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen in front of the TV screens! Mr Strache has previously taken the name of a former Chancellor of the Federal Republic – I do not want to go into the matter of who made such debts at what time, but to repeat a sentence of this former Chancellor, who at the time has caused a lot of attention. So Kreisky said: A few billion more debts make me less sleepless next than a few thousand unemployed. [[Call: “A hundred and a thousand unemployed”]] [[Abg. Neubauer: But these were Schilling!]] [[Abg. May. Gaßner: He was right!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] Unemployment is something that is not indifferent to all of us, and we should all do everything – and thank God we are successful in Austria too – in order to keep them very low. Yes, we are even the most successful in terms of employment policy across Europe. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] However, ladies and gentlemen, this statement is not a principle for employment policy, nor is it a general economic concept for our country, because debt, ladies and gentlemen, is the cause of the problem which we are discussing here in particular in the example of Greece – but unfortunately it is not only Greece. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Wonderful!]] That's the truth! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Let us be clear about this: Debts are spent future, and the future does not belong to us, it belongs to our children! I would like to say to Mr Kogler: Indeed, debt also leads to a redistribution of the poor to the rich, for where is the capital that can be taken up by making debts at home? – That is, in reality, public debt-making also favours this, as you say, injustice. I am right in this, but the conclusion of this cannot be – as Mr Cap says: Then we will increase taxes once again in order to be able to serve this! and continue this injustice, but we must reduce public debt. Only that can be the answer, the just answer! [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Hübner.]] [[Abg. May. Gässner: (in the direction of the Abg. Cap) I think he misunderstandingd you, Josef!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bucher.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Cap, it is not the evil speculators who are guilty of the current crisis either. They deserve it, but the cause of this crisis is, in turn, the debt that states have made; States that have been indebted to a degree that they could only become the ball of the financial markets. The financial markets benefit from it, speculators benefit from it, but it or causers are the ones that made the excessive debts, and not the speculators. One has to explain this cycle to the human being, otherwise one will scatter sand into their eyes. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Live the Coalition!]] It is also true, ladies and gentlemen, that the real economy is suffering from this financial crisis – no question at all. The real economy suffers from the financial crisis. However, the same applies in this regard: Not the bad financial market is due to the fact that the real economy and the small and medium-sized enterprises are suffering from the financial crisis, but it is again those who have triggered the financial crisis through a debt policy which is based on this principle of a former Chancellor and which I do not share, but which I reject! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Gaßner: How long have you been in the government?]] To Greece: Ladies and gentlemen, there are now a number of very high-level events that say: The Greeks themselves are guilty, we send them into bankruptcy, they are supposed to get out of the euro! – First question to FPÖ and BZÖ: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] Should we exclude Carinthia from the euro, and should we let Carinthia go bankrupt? – This is an analogy to the problem of Greece! [[Interim calls at FPÖ and BZÖ.]] You have to answer, but now tell us fairy tales. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen.]] We're talking about €1.2 billion we've loaned to the Greeks so far. In the case of Carinthia, we hold up to €20 billion, a multiple of which. [[Abg. Booker: That's not true!]] You're responsible for that in Carinthia through your previous policy. This is the truth, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: such a fool!]] Ladies and gentlemen, the help we provide to Greece is without any alternative. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: As a Klubobmann, such a sense of insanity softens up!]] The neighbor's house, in this case the house of Greece, burns lightly. Only: The house is very close to our house – although not geographically. And all those who now say: Let it burn down!, don't know what they say, because that would mean that our house will soon catch fire – through a domino effect, which would initially cross the fire to other countries, such as Portugal, but ultimately also our economy would draw our banks into it. [[Abg. Booker: World Economic Crisis Triggers!]] And who would have to pay this again in the end? – The Austrian economy and thus also the Austrian population and the Austrian taxpayers. That's voodoo economy you're telling us here! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would like to say once again to Mr Kogler: Of course, short-term aid is necessary, but it is just as right that, as you said, we must naturally think about orderly insolvency proceedings for the future, whether they are with banks or with states. Only: We do not have such a procedure at present, and that is why we are not left with anything but to grant this assistance. And, Mr Kogler, you are also right when you said some time ago that we need a European credit rating agency because, of course, the assessment of credit risks carried out by these credit rating agencies will, at the end of the day, also affect the interest rates that the debtors – not only states but also others – have to catch. As there are only American credit rating agencies, of course one thing is clear: It is not only expertise behind these assessments of the risks, but of course there is also an interest in this, namely a very specific national interest that affects these assessments. That is why we in Europe must become more independent of these American assessments of the debt situation in Europe, through our own European credit rating agency, so that we do not become the gameball of American financial markets. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] One last thing: Ladies and gentlemen, let's not think about it: Austria is not Greece, but Austria also has a debt problem. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl]] We too have lived for many years over our relationships. Mr Strache, our problem is not the debt we have now made to deal with the financial crisis that this Federal Government has made in recent years, but it is the debt of years and decades before that, a false philosophy. [[Abg. Street: Are “only” 100 billion from 2008 to 2015!]] [[Abg. But go!]] – Not free from guilt! [[Abg. Bucher: Oh, that's it!]] If you're free from guilt, throw the first stone. They also participated in the government, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Kickl: colleague stupid comes anyway!]] Not free of guilt, but I'll tell you one thing: In the time when ÖVP has set the Federal Chancellor, from 2000 to 2006, the debt ratio has fallen from 67 percent to less than 60 percent. [[Abg. Riepl: Who was Minister of Finance?]] This is EIA's financial and budgetary policy! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In conclusion: To ensure that Austria does not become Greece, it is said to make a reasonable budgetary policy in the future, it is said to put in place our budget, to make the necessary reforms – whether in the pension system, in the health system or in the Federal Railways – but above all to do one thing: to strengthen Austria's competitiveness by strengthening innovation through research and development investment, by forcing people's willingness to perform in this country and by strengthening, as the Federal Minister has already said, a discharge of the excessive tax burden as soon as possible, but at the same time, that the medium-sized state is discharged from the exorbitantly high tax burden. [[Abg. May. Gässner: “By the Bundesbahnen”, that was very good!]] No question, this discharge must come, but first of all, budgetary discipline must be the priority. We must not continue to live at the expense of our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e5193	Mr Klubobmann Bucher is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e5216	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Klubobmann Kopf, I fully share your analysis of debt development and debt, but I would like to remind you of one thing – one forgets over time very quickly, by the speed and overflow: [[Call the ÖVP:Yes, you!]] They've been in government responsibility for 25 years. [[Abg. Strache: Since that time the debt has increased dramatically!]] Decisions for 25 years You're this debt mountain that's been storming up here. For ten years, you have been ordering the Minister of Finance. You are debt driver number one in this Republic – you, the ÖVP! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, debt making has a name, and this name is: ÖVP! [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] That is why we wanted this declaration of government, ladies and gentlemen, because we wanted to know what strategy this federal government intends to continue to support Greece and link aid packages. In this statement of government, the Minister of Finance has only one thing: Believe and hope! – My dear Mrs Finanzminister, this is the only thing that corresponds to your Christian attitude. This is Christian attitude, but not economic reason, Mrs Finanzminister! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Economic reason would be another, namely to tell us the truth! But it does not tell anyone the truth, neither here in the House nor the population, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. What have we experienced here? There was a show of finance ministers who said: It is only a temporary help for Greece! We only need a lifeguard that will never be used. This is just a rescue shield that is supposed to gain time, so to speak, so that the countries can regenerate. Today we know that you do not comply with decisions regarding further aid to Greece and other Marode countries. That's the reality! Who else should believe you, Mrs Finanzminister, if you give any explanations here? – This is all enormous what the government is demanding of us! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, you have now strapped a 12-billion package on the side of the European Finance Ministers so that Greece can continue over the summer. If you have returned from the summer vacation, Mrs Finanzminister, then the tenfold will be due for Greece! It is likely that €120 billion will be necessary for Greece to survive. If you look at the budget figures, if you look at Greece's deficit development, then there is a need for a surplus that Greece needs to achieve. In order for this aid package to start to work at all, Greece must generate €30 billion in surplus! Yes, how is it going, Mrs. Finanzminister?- Oh, my God! How should Greece generate €30 billion in surplus? There will be nothing to do with a bank participation, because this French model, which you put into space, is a purely mogel pack because the banks are not participating in debt, debt reduction, but only the loans due are extended. This is the participation of the banks! Sale So it is not as a bank participation, because this is a prelude to false facts, ladies and gentlemen, and will not be enough for Greece to heal. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] You say from the government bank today, you never talked about a business. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: This is the short-term memory of Mrs. Minister!]] [[Abg. That's even in the record!]] – I refer to the "Mitagsjournal" of the 15th century. June 2011, that is, a few weeks ago “[...], according to Minister of Finance Maria Fekter of the ÖVP, this aid is even a good business for Austria.” – Everyone can find it on the Internet. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Listen carefully! Listen!]] [[Abg. That's even in the record!]] This is a good business for Austria, you said. [[Abg. Strache: This is even to be read in the Minutes!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Federal Minister, you were a businesswoman yourself. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: But with gravel pits!]] I hope you have nothing to say in your company and nothing more to do, because: Where are the guarantees for this “good business ”? Every citizen of our country, if he goes to a bank and wants to have a loan, must give a guarantee, must sign a liability. Each country must also sign guarantees and liabilities. Where are our guarantees for these loans that you grant? Is there a guarantee from Greece for the many billions that flow there? The Federal Chancellor has already recognized it for a long time. He said in the press hour that he did not believe that this was a business that parts of these credit measures would ever flow back to Austria. – So a clear lack of guidance within the Federal Government! It is not a “dissatisfaction” but rather a planlessness and a lack of guidance that characterizes this policy of the Federal Government, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The next pleite candidate has already hired: Portugal. About Portugal we read today: Downgraded! [[Abg. Strache: Until we lose the triple A rating, it's just a matter of time!]] The credit rating agencies will only give Portugal's government bonds a shambles status. Portugal has now received €78 billion, and the next aid package for Portugal is already being chained! – Yes, when do we finally see, all of us here together, that this is not a barrel, but several barrels without soil, that these billions are simmering that they are lost, will never find the way back to Austria, ladies and gentlemen?- Oh, my God! [[Abg. And then Spain comes! Then Spain is at the door, and then Italy!]] – You have to send this into your hands at some point, what is happening here at European level! [[In the case of the BZÖ, and the members of the FPÖ.]] The credit rating agencies are always presented as an enemy image. It's certainly not all right what they're doing there in the USA – I'm sure of that – but look at this: If we were to install a credit rating agency at European level, it would also have no other result than that these countries, these Marod countries, are not able to repay their loans, and that they are Marod. Another credit rating agency – no matter what section – will not achieve any other result. It will probably lead, ladies and gentlemen, to see the European Central Bank jump in – and that is all of us! These are all European taxpayers, including Austrian taxpayers. And you will not live up to the money printing, my dear Mrs Finanzminister! – That is not fair, that is not reasonable. We say: Enoughly paid for these Marod countries – for Portugal, Greece, Ireland and probably Spain, ladies and gentlemen! [[BZÖ and Abg. Bitch.]] How do you want? Because you bring Greece back into a situation of economic reason – I really ask you that! – in the measures that have now been decided there? Think about it. They now have to save €78 billion. Do you know what that means? – Each Greek has 700 € less in the bag in the future! What does that mean? – less consumption, less turnover, less profits, less taxes, less economic performance. That means the acceleration of the deficit and not an economic upturn! How do you want to generate €30 billion in surplus in Greece? – You, Mrs. Federal Minister, as a former businesswoman, who sees a good business in it, have really failed at all levels! [[BZÖ and Abg. Bitch.]] There will certainly not guarantee you the survival of tourist buses. At European level, we finally need an orderly insolvency measure, insolvency steps for banks. They still don't exist today! You have to imagine that – for three years we have known this problem. There are still no insolvency rules for Pleite States! Please, don't believe that Greece alone is able to trigger a global economic crisis! A world economic crisis, only if Greece is pleading? [[Abg. Slight: 2 per cent of total Europe's GDP? - That's a nonsense!]] Please, who believes that, in the low economic performance of Greece?- Oh, my God! And, please, stop believing that we are far back in export! The share of Austrian exports going to Greece is 1.5 percent. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Jöö!]] 1.5 percent! And we are holding on to aid for Greece at billions! – Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this disregards all economic reason, what is happening here, and cannot continue to be tolerated! [[BZÖ and Abg. Bitch.]] The experts won't tell you anything else either. . I don't know what the experts told you, Mrs. Federal Minister. The Federal Government has invited experts – so-called experts – I must say, these are loud experts working in the semi-public service, i.e. in close-to-state companies: OMV, ÖIAG, Wiener Stadtwerke, Verbund, ÖBB, Finanzmarktsbeh supervision, Wirtschaftskammer, Oesterreichische Nationalbank. These are your experts! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Bravo! Bravo! State experts!]] – The real experts have not appeared. The right ones that have proved themselves in the free wild railway of the private sector in recent years and decades have not come! That should give you some thought, Mrs. Federal Minister. You've been talking to people in your soldiers who are in your dependence. And that's not very credible! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The small and medium-sized economy, which is the backbone of our economic system in Austria, has kept you apart and not at all invited, ladies and gentlemen. That is why we say: In the next few years, we are coming into enormous turbulence. That's very well known, very many. And we have every reason and all the need to prepare Austria with the greatest reason.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e5508	Now comes Mr Mag. State Secretary. Arbitrators to speak. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e5529	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Today's debate on Greece can be summarized as follows: To help Greece is to help Europe, and ultimately to protect ourselves from worse. Why – and this question many people ask themselves, because it is not a simple time in which we find ourselves – why do we do all of this? – I can take you on the thought trip: What would happen if we did not help, because that is the crucial question we have to answer. Today, we have heard from two political groups – FPÖ and BZÖ – that they have other proposals, which would be much preferable to see a pleite or a rush of Greece from the euro area. [[Abg. Strache: Then a recovery would take place from Greece!]] And these are scenarios where we are at risk and on thin ice, where the risk to the Austrian economy, to the Austrian taxpayer much, would be much higher than what we are doing now. [[Abg. Straw: In the event of a devaluation, they could recover in the economic role!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. That's wrong! That's totally wrong!]] An disorderly pleite of Greece means: Impact on the labour market, mass unemployment, economic collapse there, but also in wave movements ultimately with us here in Austria. [[Abg. Strache: It's about an orderly share debt!]] But also throwing Greece out of the euro – or leaving it itself – is not an alternative, because the debt remains in euro, so if Greece were to lose Greece, only the debt burden of Greece would increase significantly so that the prospects for the future for this country can only be reduced and thus lead to an uncontrolled pleite and to waves here too. [[Abg. Strache: That's why it's about an orderly share debt!]] These are not alternatives, ladies and gentlemen, but these are pre-accelerated possibilities that actually mean a irrational game at the expense of the citizens in Austria and in Europe as a whole. Therefore, we have decided to go the way of help, but also the way that the Greeks themselves have to do something, because it is not a beautiful way, but still the better way. [[Abg. Strache: Your responsible way to go!]] [[Abg. Strache: Your really responsible way to go!]] What way out of the crisis is that now? – A real participation also of the private sector and banks – not the French model, but a real substantial contribution from there –; also the so-called conditionality of the Greek package – what the Minister said – is, that is to say, these serious measures that Greece itself has to put in place in order to correct its state budget, the measures that the World Monetary Fund and the European Central Bank also monitor; and the chance that Greece will get back to growth, so that it can get out of this difficult situation, because if there is no way out, everything will only get worse, and that would be the worst alternative. But let me also turn to the role of credit rating agencies in all these questions, because: We are already experiencing the fifth time Portugal has announced, for example, that it wants to finance itself on the financial markets, and on the day before that some credit rating agency is giving Portugal a worse rate to increase interest rates, the opportunities for these countries to get worse, and the financial industry to cut off. We can therefore no longer see what these credit rating agencies are doing with us here in Europe. We must regulate more and ultimately threaten them to withdraw a licence for Europe if they do not comply with European rules. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] A European credit rating agency, at last not only the Anglo-Saxon, American perspective, but also a European perspective, more competition in this area, a financial transaction tax are important points. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Do it! Do it!]] [[Abg. Strache: Who's holding you? Who will stop you, Mr. State Secretary?]] And if you say, Do it!, then I remember: They have always said that this is pointless, but we have been pressured for so long that even the European Commission now writes such a document and intends to introduce a financial transaction tax by 2018. – That’s the difference! That's: Let's go! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Who should do it? The Dalai Lama, or who should do it? He's waiting for the Dalai Lama!]] However, it is also about a European growth policy. And I also say one thing: Even if Austria can be proud and happy that we have the lowest unemployment and the lowest youth unemployment in Europe, we cannot see if Spain has 50 percent youth unemployment! Or to talk to Bruno Kreisky: That really makes me sleepless nights, this high youth unemployment in parts of Europe, and Europe has to do something about it! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In summary, and above all to the spectators at home who, I believe, also ask many questions in this context: Greece's aid is not easy and is not pleasing, but it is the package of responsibility, the way to do the right thing to keep Europe, Austria and the people in Austria from getting worse. Another final remark because they say, “Faith! ” and the others say, “Faith! ” “Our money for our Leut’!” – What that means by your economic and financial understanding, we have come to know much higher costs in the area of Hypo Alpe-Adria than in all other areas. [[Abg. Strache: The Bavarian hypo led to the pleite under CSU responsibility! BAWAG! Local credit! Bavarian Pleite!]] Therefore: “Our money for our Leut’!”, as you say, as you mean, is called hypo-pleide in Carinthia, is called Desaster for the Austrian state and in Carinthia. And that's a way we won't go!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e5726	Next, Mr Krainer. The speaking time for all other speakers is 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e5754	Madam President. Even if Klubobmann's head is not there, I have to say a few words about Kreisky. It would be reasonable first of all to quote Kreisky that he is quoted correctly. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: This is a criticism of the Secretary of State! That's incredible!]] [[Abg. Strache: What did the Secretary of State wrong quote arbitration?]] You can certainly criticize something about Kreisky, and it is also true that after he resigned as Federal Chancellor, Kreisky has left behind debts. But he has not left behind any more debts than conservative governments that have at the same time ruled in other countries. No, no, he didn't! Only what he did surely is: He left behind much lower unemployment than conservative governments in other countries, because they had both: high unemployment and high debt! [[Abg. Street: Just like Zapatero in Spain!]] That certainly saved us Kreisky, and that's something positive, and not something you can criticize. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Street: Just like Zapatero in Spain!]] If you take a sober look at the facts where Austria stood in 1970 and where Austria stood in 1983, the time of the Kreisky government was a success story for this country – and certainly nothing where any Klubobmann of the ÖVP from Vorarlberg needs to explain how to do it better. That's ridiculous! [[Admissibility with SPÖ and BZÖ.]] What is certainly true is that not all the recipes that Kreisky has applied are transferable to today – certainly not – because he has given answers to the problems of the 1970s and 1980s, and we are facing quite different problems today. But the values behind these recipes and behind this policy are certainly still valid today, which at least apply to Austrian social democracy, and to that we stand a hundred percent! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Street: You are miles away! Miles away!]] One of these values is solidarity. And, yes, a reason for this Greece package is of course also solidarity, because one does not see: [[Abg. With the speculators! Solidarity with the speculators lives Mr. Krainer!]] If the neighbor's house burns, you don't look at it, but then you help delete it! Of course you do! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Strache: Solidarity with the speculators, that's what you're living!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: But the arsonists...!]] [[Abg. Strache: solidarity with the arsonists!]] Other reasons are that we want to avoid a domino effect: the domino effect, which is then speculated from one country to another and also against individual countries. Austria too can become victims of speculation and in the past has already been victims of speculation! Those who believe that Austria could then, if it were not within the euro area or within the European Union, resist speculation, need only look at how the individual states and the individual currencies in the nineties before the introduction of the euro's ball of speculation were, and what an enormous stability the euro has brought to the monetary system and thus to the economies in Europe and thus especially to Austria, because we are just so export-oriented, and what a huge advantage it has been for us. [[Abg. Street: We have more imports than exports and have an import overhang of 4.3 billion!]] The third thing that we still want to prevent from doing so is also the cost to Austria through government debt. What, do you think, happens when Greece is pleading? Do you think that has no effect on the interest rates that states pay for their public debt? [[Abg. Booker: “World and Economic Crisis”!]] Yes, I know, Mr Bucher, you say that Greece cannot trigger a global economic crisis. They also told us: Go, Lehman can't trigger a world economic crisis! – But you have seen that Lehman triggered the world economic crisis because the first stone in a domino that falls doesn’t have to be big. [[Abg. Bucher: This is panic! You're panicking!]] At the Domino it's like one stone hits the other and then many, many stones fall. The individual stone at the beginning can be very small in relation to those coming after. But this cascade is very good. The cost of public debt, of course, increases automatically when States argue. Have you ever looked at what this means in terms of costs if the refinancing costs of Austria increase by only 1 percent? Do you know that this is 2 billion euros a year? Only 1%! And if it's 2 or 3 or 4 percent, we're talking about 6 or 8 billion euros very quickly – not uniquely, but every year! There, the cost of hypo-plies in Carinthia is just too low compared to what threatens here! [[Abg. Strache: You are still not aware that the banks have the damage they have done!]] Of course, this emergency aid is a step; other steps are necessary. Much has already been said about unemployment. I can only point out absolutely what State Secretary of State has said to arbitration. Public debt is an important value and is a source of concern, particularly at European level, but unemployment is at least as terrifying as one looks at how it rises. Already a third of the countries in the European Union have a youth unemployment rate of more than 20 percent. That's just as much a cry for emergency measures. [[Abg. Strache: Socialist Saboteurs!]] - Yeah, I know. [[Abg. Street: Maximum youth unemployment in Spain!]] Do you know how many countries in Europe are currently governed by social democrats? [[Abg. Street: Maximum youth unemployment in Spain under socialist government!]] Do you know how many these are? – These are two or three out of 27. - That's just for information. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] Equally important is the question of how states finance debt. In this context, the problems are similar in all countries. Work contributes far too much and capital and assets far too little. We also need a financial transaction tax. That's what we're working for and we're not just looking at how others put them through.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e6028	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Stummvoll. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e6060	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Krainer, it would, of course, be tempting to discuss here the positive and negative consequences of the Kreisky era, but I would rather talk about the future and not the past. I would just like to say one thing, Mr Krainer: If you believe that allegations, such as “somewhere in Klubobmann of the ÖVP from Vorarlberg”, that such formulations contribute to the better culture within the coalition, then you are wrong. I do not think it politically wise to argue this way from the speaker's desk. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I am very glad that we have heard these facts and facts from the Minister of Finance today; objective facts and facts that have been very precise, Mr Strache, that there are, of course, alternatives. I don't like it either, when it says there are no alternatives. There are alternatives! She said it. A state pleite had already cost Austria 5 billion months ago. Now we have a loan arrest of 1.2 billion, and we have received 30 million interest rates to date. There are alternatives – and the only guideline for us is: We take that alternative that is the cheapest solution for our taxpayer. That this is not a pleasant situation that has been made in the past is not a question at all, but, Mr Strache, I now ask you one: Do you seriously believe that in this difficult situation all 17 European leaders, 17 finance ministers, 17 central bank presidents, the European Monetary Fund, 100 experts are stupid, only you are the Oberg’scheiterl and know everything better? Faith You really do, Mr. Strache? - So I don't think so. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bitch.]] Mr Kogler, who unfortunately is not present now and whom I very much appreciate, has rightly raised the same question which I have been asked again and again. [[Abg. Strache: That's the basic problem! They are exactly the experts who raise our public debt from 60 percent of GDP to 80 percent...!]] How can it be that a small country whose economic performance accounts for just over 2% of European economic performance and whose debt is very high, but which has only 4 percent of European debt in total, can cause such turbulence? – The answer is very simple: because the financial world is incredibly networked today, is globalized and because today we simply see that what 350 billion debt in Greece is in the balance sheets of European banks, insurance companies, pension funds, investment funds assets. If there is a 50 percent debt cut, 175 billion € are going down the stream in Europe or worldwide with a blow. Mr Krainer has already said correctly, only the pleite of Lehman Brothers has triggered the global financial crisis. So so easy to say: Let us go to Greece!, that is – and I have already said that – political roulette. We from the government parties do not want to play political roulette with the savings of the Austrians, with the pension accounts and so on. This is a political roulette, Mr. Strache. That is irresponsible, really irresponsible. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] But I admit, at the main tables, in beers' tents, if the situation is already somewhat agitated, you like to do it. [[Abg. Street: The economists among the Europeans give us the right!]] – Believe me, people are much smarter than you sometimes believe, Mr. Strache! Trust me! – Wait for the election day! [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. May. Worm.]] [[Abg. Strache: Believe me that, the people are so smart,...!]] The opinion polls are snapshots, Mr Strache. Wait for the election day, you'll see the people are smarter than you believe! [[Abg. Strache: There you will feel the wisdom of the citizens in your own body!]] Ladies and gentlemen, I can say one more thing: Both the Secretary of State and the Minister of Finance have pointed out that we are the main beneficiaries of the European Union. [[Abg. Street: The Biggest Business!]] – Mr Strache, just a number: They will hear from all economic scientists that our economic growth is 0.4 to 0.5 percent higher each year only by means of the internal market dynamics. If you convert this to 15 years at a tax rate of 40 percent, then each year we have higher tax revenues from € 4 to 6 billion. That is, we are net payers in the account, and we are in-house net winners. [[Abg. May. Stefan: Who's lost then? They all actually won!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] Without the euro, we would have really argued in the financial crisis – where an American Nobel Prizewinner then meant that Austria was in favour of the pleite. Mr Bucher! Why did we have to carry out an emergency nationalization of a large bank? Why did we have to stay overnight... – Because your friends, your colleagues in Carinthia, have caused this disaster. [[Abg. Street: Because the Bavaria have built a pleite!]] [[Abg. Strache: Your CSU friends! A Bavarian bank, you know that!]] You can play the Oberg’scheiterl in Parliament, but where you are responsible, you do enormous damage! [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] 20 billion liabilities – compared to 1.2 billion loans! So don't talk about things you really have no idea, Mr. Cot.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e6248	Mr Hübner came next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e6270	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank you for your support. . Now I give up, my colleague doesn't want to be stupid. [[Abg. Dr. Stumvoll speaks with colleagues of his group and does not respond to the personal address of the Abg. Dr. Hübner.]] I try with colleagues Krainer, he has also said nice things. Let's start with him, because I like to quote him. Mr Krainer has today announced my favorite sentence, namely to look at the facts soberly. That's right! I can tell you that right now, Mr President. It doesn't always help to say: People aren't as stupid as you think they're much g’scheiter!, We know all that, Austria has benefited!, What you're saying is all a fog grenade, and there's also the Hypo Alpe-Adria! – and you're done with the explanation. I would therefore prefer Mr Krainer's statement and say: Let us take a quick look at the facts of how Austria has benefited! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Let's take a look at them! Colleague stupid, tag profit in the euro zone! Do you know which world region has grown the weakest since 2000 and 2001 – both true – since the year 2000 or 2001? – Europe. Do you know which region has grown the weakest within Europe? - The Eurozone. Do you know which region of Europe is economically most destabilised? - The Eurozone. Do you know where the countries with the highest prospectlessness, with the highest unemployment, are located except for some black African regions? - In the eurozone. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: In the USA!]] – Mr. colleague, do you say that?- Oh, my God! Have you seen any statistics about unemployment in the USA? Have you compared it to Spain or Portugal or Ireland? [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] – Haven You ever compare youth unemployment in the United States with that of Spain? [[Further calls of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] [[State Secretary Mag. Arbitrators:... percent more growth than we do!]] But let's look at other things! I am not saying now that Mrs Fekter has said that this is a business we are doing with Greece. Although she said it, I don't say it anymore, because she doesn't want to hear it anymore. So we assume that only the fair debate is half that she has not said it. Let's go from other things! Mrs Fekter has told us today how great it is that we have supported Greece because we are saving 5 billion Austrian demands against Greece. In reality, this was up to 4.7 billion, all together, Stand January/February 2010. But let's assume that there were 5 billion, let's not be so small! What happened in this one year? – Austria has committed itself to €2.3 billion in Greek aid. [[Abg. Street: The National Bank has bought 4 billion government bonds! There we are at 6.3!]] That's it, colleague. The National Bank has purchased 4 billion – some say 3 billion, some say 3.3 billion, but at least more than 3 billion. 2.3 plus 3 is 5.3. [[Abg. Street: It's hard to count!]] The European Central Bank has purchased Greek government bonds and titles worth approximately €50 billion, plus/minus. Austria has a share of about 2.2 percent in the ECB. Now, let's say 2 percent of the 50 billion, that's once again 1 billion. 5.3 plus 1 billion is 6.3 billion. That is to say, we have started with 5 billion and are now at 11.3 billion total exposure Greece. Now I am quite honest and say that during this time, the private have gone a little back with these 5 billions of their demands. These funds, which have already been paid out, have been used for the nationalization of Greek public debt. That's right. And some of these private debts, which have now been nationalized, were also Austrian debts. I can tell you that there is no accurate statistics, but our exhibit, as Mrs Minister would say, so our risk range has dropped from 4.7 billion to around 4.1 billion. That means we saved 600 million here. What a success! We've exchanged 6.3 billion plus against 700 million minus. [[Abg. Street: A business of bombs!]] A business of bombs! – So far as the sober consideration. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Street: A business of bombs! A whore!]] You laugh, my colleague, that was perhaps bizarre, that you heard from the ministerial bank, but that is, I think, not to laugh at all of us who should feel like Austrians and not primarily as EU propagandists. [[Abg. Strache: You will lose your laugh on the next election day!]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is not a laugh for a Member or for the taxpayer. But the worst is still coming. The worst thing is that we now hear the message: Because of this debacle, which has brought us the eurozone, the summary and the delivery of competences, the loss of economic independence and the link with economies that should not have been connected, we are continuing our way, this wood road, with even more centralization, even more task of our solidarity – what the colleague has called for. Give up economic skills, this is logic and, O-Ton Kogler, no loss of sovereignty. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]] Don't believe, colleague stupid...
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e6422	Mr deputies, you are already far above it. [[Abg. Dr. Hübner: I'm already done!]] [[Abg. Stache: A final sentence must be possible!]] I've given you enough time for a final sentence. The clock shows 45 seconds for 5 minutes. [[Abg. Strache: Then you should have molded before! A final sentence is fair!]] [[In the case of the FPÖ, please take a look at the box that leaves the speaker's desk. Dr. Hübner.]] [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: With so much materiality you can easily overlook time!]] Mr Van der Bellen is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e6501	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Hübner, 1 billion on or off, I do not want to argue about that, but you are essentially right. It won't be cheap anyway, no matter how you turn it and turn it. You have to say that. You have no alternative as to how it can be cheaper. For one thing, Mrs Fekter, I am grateful to you today: They have described in detail what has taken on Greece’s equally hard package of measures – of course under pressure from the lenders, the IMF and the EU countries involved. It is an unprecedentedly hard package of measures, and the economic question is, of course, whether the bill can go up. Mr President, you have said that we who have our doubts here believe that we are smarter than the experts of the European Commission, the International Monetary Fund et cetera. - No! But each of us can be wrong in this point, and I will come to talk about where all these experts have already been wrong. That's the problem. [[Abg. Dr. Stumvoll: Van der Bellen!]] - Me too, of course. I don't want to figure out how many times. This hard package of measures, I believe, has solved a political question, namely the so-called moral hazard problem in the face of public debt. If politicians of a state still believe they can – hurra! – debt, others will already pay, then I can only say that the example of Greece clearly shows how a state is demised in such a situation. Therefore, for us too, the lesson must be from not being allowed to drift in such situations. - That's one. [[Congratulation with Greens, SPÖ, ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Another problem, so to speak, the symmetrical moral-hazard problem, the moral-hazard problem of the creditors, that whenever the debtor cannot pay, others will already pay for him, this problem is completely unresolved. This concerns the problems of the banks, which concern the pension funds that have invested, and this is last but not least the credit default swaps, the credit default insurance that earns shiny, because the EU, the Commission promise in this Treaty de facto: Greece will not argue! – Great, I also take out such an insurance, as an insurer: I'm cashing the high premiums and I know I'm never gonna have to pay. This problem, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, is unsolved. Something has remained open, Mrs Fekter – I understand that too, because that is the open flank –: You have not said what was in May 2010 – from the schedule – and you have not said what the schedule is now, and you have not promised that the next package of measures in your scenario, i.e. in the official Ecofin scenario, will have to come in the autumn at the latest. At that time, a year ago, everyone knew that the 110 billion Greece will reach about one and a half years, by spring 2012. That wasn't a secret. One knows the clearing profile of Greek bonds, one knows about how high the deficit is to be financed. The aid lasts until spring 2012. At that time, Mr President, it is obvious that all these expatriates, which I highly appreciate, have assumed that from spring 2012, Greece will be able to return to the financial markets. This assessment has gone beyond that. – I have to say at this point, sorry, I am one of those who have said from the beginning – Werner Kogler also belongs to that – that will not happen. We need an orderly decommissioning procedure for states, an orderly compensation procedure. But one and a half years later, we still don't have that. That's what you can do. But they don't blame the opposition. These are the ministers of the Ecofin zone, these are the experts of the European Commission who have failed to do so. If now adventurous scenarios about the participation of private creditors are coursed according to French patterns, you need to look at this. The one scenario proposed is the extension of the time-limits for eradication. Yes, but Greece would have to pay interest for loans it has never received. That's really a super proposal! Loans with interest rates in the order of 10 percent arising from it. If you do not believe it, read it in the last “economist”. We do not get along with such proposals. You must take note, Mr President, that the financial markets, the financial commentators believe that the Ecofin Ministers are following: If a plan does not work, stick to it! [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] This is the irony we are currently exposed to. And there's no criticism of rating agencies, nothing at all. - Too bad, my 5 minutes are already over. – We have to think of something new in principle.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e6550	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Stadler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e6571	Madam President. High house! First of all, a preliminary remark to Mr Cap, when I remember your legendary appearances in the “communal” in the Schönlaterngasse, where you said: The crisis of capitalism will be the victory of socialism! – Today you go to the speaker’s desk and defend turbocapitalism like just something and the entire locust funds. You did that in your speech. All that we did with your consent a year ago has fueled exactly this turbocapitalism, you can read it today. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Read in the "Press" with Mr Urschitz, who puts it to the point. Rabl said the same thing three weeks ago, and these are really not big representatives of the BZÖ. Now I'm saying the ÖVP for the x-th time, and if she doesn't believe it, I'm going to go ahead with each of my speeches: Hypo-Platte has been wiped out, because Hypo is the result of your CSU friends from Bavaria who have ruined this bank, ladies and gentlemen! [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] Your black friends from Bavaria ruined the bank, specifically and deliberately. You always have to say that, Mr. Schieder. [[New applause at BZÖ and FPÖ.]] You haven't found it. Your black friends ruined this bank, with liquidity drain. [[Abg. Amon: But go!]] Of course! You would have loved to hang a cow bell on the dead shark to make him responsible for these stories. It was their black friends from Bavaria, ladies and gentlemen, who killed this bank, and it will be to be clear what role ÖVP has still played in this! [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] But now to what really concerns us: When I listened to Mrs Finanzminister, she explained to us today that she was tearful – I am convinced that the spectators on the television screens are still swallowing – how much she is working for the Greeks. Mrs Minister, if you want to become a minister in Greece, there is a Finance Minister's post out there. You'll be taken there, too. But in Austria, please represent Austrian taxpayers and not Greek taxpayers! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This was today a speech by a Greek Minister of Finance, who has to represent a Member State, but not that of an Austrian Finance Minister, who would have to represent Austrian taxpayers and manage Austrian taxpayers, ladies and gentlemen. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hoefinger.]] That's why I was expecting, and I'm asking you now: What have you done to tighten the financial markets? [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: New Finances...!]] – Your State Secretary Arbitrator said: That's what we're gonna do! He's been saying that for a year. We're waiting for the Dalai Lama. Maybe he'll do that. That's what the Lord Schieder believes. I'm asking you now: What did you do? – You have not lost a word. I ask you to: Talk about it! What have you done to implement what your Mr Fischler asked you to introduce, namely Eurobonds? What did you do? - Nothing! What have you done to set up a European Monetary Fund? – That with your ESM rescue screen is a special class salmon number! In Article 12, the private sector's participation alone reads as a cabaret. Mr Van der Bellen even presented it in committee; I have the text here if you want to hear it. What did you do? – No syllables have lost you. To this end, the Minister of Foreign Affairs has told us tearfully what the Greeks must offer everything for sacrifice. What did you do to introduce the transaction tax? Have you juncified a payment once so that the transaction tax will come? - Nothing! Mrs. Fekter didn't shine there. She was there, yes, but she didn't do anything. What have you done to introduce a European credit rating agency? – Everyone here comes to the speaker’s desk and demands such a one. We need a European credit rating agency, says Mr Kopf. – Now he is not here, he is offended at you because the colleague Krainer has directed him to the history of social democracy. [[towards SPÖ]] What did you do? I'm asking you now: Who are we waiting for? Is that what the Holy Father is doing in Rome or the Dalai Lama? Who's going to do this? – You are the Minister of Finance! [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Fekter.]] You are the Minister of Finance, you have to do this, not the Dalai Lama and not the Pope in Rome, ladies and gentlemen! [[Prolonged condolences with BZÖ.]] [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter would like to give the speaker from the government bank a paper which, however, falls to the ground.]] And don't throw debris around! Look at you doing something in Brussels! What have you done to enable a corresponding state insolvency? What did you do, Mrs. Minister? - Nothing you've done! Your concepts are already on the ground where you have thrown them. There, ladies and gentlemen, your policy has landed. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the BZÖ.]] How does your private sector of participation look like, Mrs. Minister? – You have speaking time in this house. Explain to the taxpayer what you have done to involve the private sector! That's what you announced last time. Now you haven't brought a single syllable, not a number where you said: Raiffeisen pays this, GRAWE pays it, the rest is taken over by other private individuals. I, Mizzi Fekter, did this. - Nothing of it! You sent the Austrian tax payment fee to Greece. That's all you've done so far, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] And I'll tell you with Peter Rabl – please read, my speaking time is too short, I can only recommend it to everyone: ==References== June in the “Kurier” – this is not a BZÖ newspaper – it is a newspaper that is close to you – a editorial. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] Or read to Mr Urschitz today in the press! He'll tell you which failure number these finance ministers are.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e6742	Mr Matznetter has now come to speak. - Please. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Madam President! Is it possible to prevent the Minister from attacking Members?- Oh, my God!]] [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: He asked me, and I wanted to give him the answer! But he wasn't interested!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: But not during the speech! They wanted to cut him one way! That's exactly what I saw!]] I call Mr Matznetter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e6800	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! Ladies and gentlemen on the screens! What this somewhat screaming Lord, my previous speaker, just gave of himself, was not quite a fact in every form. Only to the poor Bavaria: There, the Bavarian taxpayer pays 3.7 billion. So much has disappeared in this Hider-and-Environment-Sumpf, and we unfortunately, namely the Austrian taxpayer, also have to pay. [[Abg. Wheeler: At BZÖ!]] But that's not the subject today. [[Abg. Petzner: That's not true what you're saying!]] We are today in that part of the financial crisis, which makes it necessary to help a Member State of the EU with aid, where we are already discussing for the second time the amount at which we are doing so. Let's look back at how it was in the past! The “Mirror” reports: It was a warm spring evening when the central bank manager of a country just finished the last files and wanted to go home. His wife was waiting for dinner. She waited in vain. This central bank head of a country that had no foreign debt, growth rates, of which we could only dream, which had 40 billion currency reserators in US dollars, fell that night. – It was then Thai bank manager Rerngchai Marakanond. And he describes how everything collapsed within days, not because the country had had a bad growth, because the public debt had been high, but the only thing that could be attached to the Thai countries at that time was that they have often entered debt into foreign currency. That's where I know a country, where the housekeepers recorded much higher amounts in foreign currency: This country is called Austria. At that time, Thailand has cost the entire economic growth of a decade, a decline of ten years. – And so much for the intelligence of financial markets: Yes, highly intelligent! The markets have been set up by the billions that the country has lost there. And to Thailand came Indonesia, came Malaysia, came South Korea – one country after another. A second country was once close to it. ==References== February 2009 there was a country that gave no reason to be poorly equipped in the crisis. At that time, the Minister of Finance had to travel to several countries to organize an emergency aid, because it was thought that this country had a banking sector too very exposed. This country has been Austria. Our spreads – as it is so beautiful, so the risk premium – were higher at that time and in March 2009 than in Greece. [[Abg. Dr. Hübner: Ten days!]] Why was it only ten days, Mr. Hübner? – Because within a few days, the European Union has loosened 50 billion for East Aid on a proposal from the Austrian Government, without any conditions for us. She didn't go here and she said: The Austrian banks should sell their shares, but disappear in the next minute. And the Austrian savers should perhaps also make an Obolus. And the “picture newspaper” was not full of “the lazy Austrians” and perhaps of: “two monthly salaries without working!” [[Abg. May. Stefan: That was not justified on the subject either!]] That could be the same as the Greeks. The same grievances could affect Austria in a short time. [[Abg. May. Stadler: (in the documents of Federal Minister Dr. Fekter, who has now handed him an ÖVP employee)...! That's delicious!]] I would like to say one thing to you, Mr Commissioner: If anyone follows the advice of Bucher or Strach, withdraws from monetary union, operates an exclusion from Greece or reaches a default, then it is not said that the order Portugal, Spain, and so on, is until Belgium. This could be the same idea as in February 2009. That's why what we're doing here is the most responsible. We ensure that Austria cannot become victims of these speculators in the Community with the Eurozone and the European Union. And continue like this, Mrs. Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e6906	The next speaker is Mr Auer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e6928	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! It is probably undisputed that Greece is a particular challenge. Only: It does not help us hysteria or panic, nor loud screaming here, but it will be asked – whether we like it or not –: Solution competence. Ladies and gentlemen! A coordinated approach by the European partners, the countries, the financial authorities, the IMF is needed. It is not the euro the problem, not the currency, which is thank God is stable. From the Austrian point of view, we owe a lot to this currency. Just to remember: At its introduction, the euro stood at the US dollar 1: 1,18, the highest was 1 : 1,60. There were then problems in the export economy. Ladies and gentlemen! We should recognise what the euro has brought us when we know that more than a million employees in Austria are directly and indirectly dependent on the export economy, and that jobs are secured directly from the export industry. Mr Stadler, if you already thought that the CSU, so our black friends would be blamed – “your black friends”, you have formulated it – on the disaster of Hypo Alpe-Adria, I ask you: [[Abg. May. Stadler: Yes?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. That's how it is!]] [[Abg. Petzner: Yes!]] Can the CSU in Carinthia decide to hold the Kärntner Landeshaftung? Or who decided, ladies and gentlemen? - That's amazing. [[Abg. You've decided! Your ÖVP!]] That's amazing! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hagen.]] [[Abg. Petzner: The ÖVP has decided!]] [[Abg. Stache: Mr. Martinz!]] The CSU now almost owes it the liability of the country of Carinthia. You have to explain this to the astonishing public. [[Abg. Petzner: Do you know Mr. Zernatto?]] Secondly, a correct position. Mr Bucher, in his contribution to the debate, said that Mrs Finanzminister Dr. Fekter had spoken about a “business”. [[Abg. Strache: This can be read in the minutes!]] . I have this Minutes here, Mr Strache. [[Keeping this in height]] [[Abg. Strache: This is the wrong protocol!]] When? What date? [[Abg. That's what's in the record!]] – You said for yourself: on 15 May. June. Here's the original protocol. If you find here a syllable, a line above, then you come out and prove You're me! Ms Fekter never spoke of a “business”. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] You should at least have so much courage, so much honesty and so much man to admit that there is nothing to be found in this regard. She spoke literally of this Greek aid until that day, on 15 March. She started her speech at 9.18 a.m. at 9.30 a.m. You also know that – just until that day the Austrian taxpayer has not cost a penny. But she never spoke of a business, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] And something else was remarkable. Mr. Strache, you have today praised the Swiss large bank UBS in the highest tones. Have you forgotten how much billions of US dollars this bank had to support? – I tell you, with $60 billion! And then do you trust to go here and present this bank as a model example?- Oh, my God! [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: Incredible!]] [[Abg. Amon: This is economic competence!]] Switzerland has had to make every effort and effort to support this bank, ladies and gentlemen! 60 billion US dollars! [[President Neugebauer shall take over the chairmanship.]] If you already thought that this bank's equity was so great, I'll tell you: Moreover, Lehman Brothers has not taken advantage of the capital problem, including the rating judgment, in the credit assessment. They had the highest credit quality level a few days before the disaster and received excellent certificates from the rating. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Kogler, whom I very much appreciate, and, above all, Mr Van der Bellen, in your assessment, I think, have made a critical but objectively excellent analysis here. One might well approach these facts. It was interesting, however, that Mr Van der Bellen, in the final sentence, said that we all had to think something new, he didn't know the solution today either. So the solution as presented by the Federal Minister, as she has been coordinated so far, I think, is quite the better.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e7151	Next speaker: Mr Podgorschek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e7183	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! “To equip Greece with the euro should be compared with the process, to finance a villa for a homeless person and then to wonder that the mortgage credit will not be repaid.” – This did not say a freeman, but the economic magnate of SPÖ, Hannes Androsch in Laxenburg, on 31 December. ==References====External links== [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] We must note that the money invested is inconceivable in the long run. The rescue package, ladies and gentlemen, is not used to save Greece but to save European banking. Another example, Mr Auer. A colleague of you from Raiffeisen Bank International, the bond expert Valentin Hofstätter said in a “standard” interview: ‘The euro area states that do not have a ‘Plan B’ in the case of a Greek state bankruptcy are aware of the insolubleness of the Greek debt situation. However, they link another aid package because they hope to be able to buy time for the euro countries affected (...)’. Yeah, time, that's exactly what it's all about. We only need time for either you to come to the next rounds or because you believe that the other countries that are now in the line can be met by the speculators, then possibly still do their homework. That's a trick. And this very quote is very honest from my point of view. In order to make this tasty to the people, you believe that the banks can force them to be able to bring in their own share, but the whole thing is – that has been mentioned today – a mogel pack. Let me make this quite clear on the basis of the example of Germany! Germany wants to imitate the French model and has said that the German banks save €3.2 billion. Of these 3.2 billion, 1.2 billion are currently state-owned banks, such as the so-called Bad Bank of Hypo Real Estate. There's only more than 2 billion left. And these 2 billion Greek papers probably get these banks back from the Greeks, because these bonds would have been due in 2014, but then they have committed themselves to putting 70 percent of these 2 billion back into long-term bonds. That is, 30 percent stay with the banks, so the European and German banks make a bit of a cut as well. And of the 1.4 billion, the Greeks will then have to pass on € 420 million in secure bonds in the European Rescue Fund or the European Investment Bank in order to ensure that this is ensured. Of course, the remaining one billion that the Greeks should get from the German banks is not lost – that is quite clear – as long as Greece is not pleading. But one thing is achieved with it: They'll get better interest in the future than they've gotten them now. – So much to this large share that banks give as a private share in the current package. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Has been brought to a denominator: Without the help of European taxpayers, Greece would have argued; we must take note of that. And we've had to owe Greece a long time ago. But whether banks would securely recover 50 percent in this case is more than questionable. The taxpayers save the banks from losses through the Greek rescue. That's the fact. But we need a scapegoat. And these scapegoats are now the so-called rating agencies. I would like to say one thing: I am very sure that we will introduce a European rating agency, but one must be clear: Not the rating agencies have caused this crisis and have accumulated huge debt, not the rating agencies have designed this monetary union in such a way that it makes massive problems. Those were the states themselves. Ladies and gentlemen! Greece will not come out of this misery in the foreseeable future. In the long run, Greece's withdrawal from the euro zone will be inevitable. [[Abg. Strache: Only then will it be too late because you missed the time!]] This will also not be possible to change our government with beautiful speeches, long-lasting. We can't put sand in people's eyes. The awakening will soon become even worse.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e7235	Next speaker: Mrs. Dr. Lichtenecker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e7256	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! It was demonstrations, tear-gas bombs, violent excavations: These have been the pictures that have accompanied us over the past few weeks – something very unusual from a European capital, which is also deeply affected. Greece has decided on a hugely hard savings package, with €75 billion to be saved by 2015. Whoever knows the economic power of Greece knows what hardness this is. Who cares? – It concerns the poorer levels of income, the middle level of income, employees, workers, pensioners and, above all, young people – young people who are now on the streets and of course rightly demanding fair opportunities. Of course, they also ask: What's the responsibility? What are the causes? And if you look at this more precisely, then you'll see it's a multistage failure of policy that eventually led to these results. It has, of course, started in Greece, with the Greek policy and its failure: Tax evasion as a cavalier crime, an overarching state apparatus, huge military expenditure and, of course, outdated economic structures that have led to this difficult situation. Then it continued with European policy – also here a failure. For three years now, since the financial crisis, it has been said that we should finally create new rules for the financial markets. We're still waiting for it today. Finally, over the last few months, we have experienced a European policy that has greatly affected me as an economist and a passionate European. Mrs. Minister! Mr State Secretary! There must be done! That's where you have to take steps! Austrian politics has also failed a lot. Where have European politicians been when it came to introducing structures where the speculators and banks now deserved a golden nose? And where has politics remained in Austria when it came to explaining to people what it means when these states argue – and the talk is not only about Greece, but also about other countries? Today, the role of the credit rating agencies is strongly complained about. Where were the credit rating agencies prior to 2008 when it came to warning of the problematic investment situations, of the disastrous situation of the companies, which were standing just ahead of the pleite and then also pleaded and, as a result, to draw in the real economy? Where were those rating agencies? If Klubobmann Cap turns out to be here today and says: Okay, we need to reform the financial market! We need a financial transaction tax, then I ask you: Where are your measures? Where are your actions? For three years now, it has been overdue that appropriate steps are being taken here. Of course, it can't be that you're just focusing on the nation states and dividing Europe apart. The strength of Europe is, of course, also in economic, common. And that will also mean being together in such a difficult situation. What will that mean in this difficult situation? – Of course it’s about debt. And rightly today the enormously high interest rates have been criticized. One of the most important steps is to take as low interest rates as possible and, of course, to get as close as possible to Europe as possible in order to make it clear, Europe is strong together and together we will endure this. That's got to be the big deal now. Of course, they have to be asked to pay for the cash which has also deserved this crisis. And what's very important: Today, Mrs Minister has argued that there will be a package for Greece so that at last the economy will be renewed. It is the talk of a billion preferred structural resources. – That will be too little. That's going to be too little for Weitem. There is now an offensive that goes far beyond that. We need something like a modern Marshall plan to To support the Greek population in order to generate economic growth again so that they can also pay taxes. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] I would like to conclude by saying, ladies and gentlemen: A common Europe, a common currency, needs a common economic and monetary policy and thus also a financial transaction tax. This, of course, also means a redesign of the financial markets.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e7350	Mr Ing. Westenthaler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e7372	The Minister of Finance has once again gone to Brussels, to the green table, to the table of the EU's poker stars, and has covered the next tranche of 12 billion together with their other Brussels finance ministers. She introduces herself here today, apologies us about how terrible the situation is, but has told us for the last time – and this is securitised and logged, Mrs. Minister – that we are doing business anyway due to the return on interest. It's a big business we're doing here with Greece. We should actually continue to do that. [[Abg. Stache: Stand in all newspapers!]] And then today, Mrs Minister, put one on it and thank the Austrian Parliament in Greece that our tax money is being hunted for smoking. Thank you very much! That's where the taxpayers will be happy. But that's not responsible, Mrs. Minister, what you've delivered here today. [[BZÖ and Abg. Bitch.]] It is also irrational because with your billion-dollar syringes – and you know that very well – you have no solution with these over 230 billions that have now become necessary. And if you don't believe us, Mrs. Minister, read to Josef Urschitz today in the press. I quote: “The money is used exclusively for the refinancing of old debt, so it’s gone,” says Urschitz. “And at the end of the powdered 210 billion, the country is right where it was before: on the abyss, with a debt backpack that is not too schooling. The money of the European taxpayers has long since been returned to the accounts of creditor banks." And now he says that's the crucial sentence: “Of course, everyone knows this, including the political actors.” You too, Mrs Finanzminister, know that. “The fact that, out of fear, the bitter truth could become known to them in general and cost them the jobs, do not act after that, but rather ride the entire euro zone deeper and deeper into the mess is thus seen as a form of bankruptcy – that is, actually criminal,” writes Urschitz. That's exactly what Josef Bucher and the BZÖ and other opposition parties say here again and again, Mrs. Minister! [[In the case of the BZÖ, and the members of the FPÖ.]] And we'll tell you something: With this type of criminal bankruptcy, which is now taking place here at the expense of taxpayers, where, Mrs Minister, you, the interests of the European Union, the banks, the Pleite States, about the interests of Austrian taxpayers, the Austrian population, are not involved in this bankruptcy! In a very short time, you have not only said the untruth in Parliament several times, but you have also played any confidence. We don't have any confidence anymore. We're not going there anymore. That's why we're making a distrust request today. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Request for Distrust § 55 GOG-NR of Deputies Ing. Westenthaler, colleagues The National Council wants to decide: "The Federal Minister for Finance is hereby appointed. § 74 para. 1 B-VG by express resolution of the National Council failure to trust.” Mrs Minister, you are done. They no longer have a right to abandon the Austrian taxpayers and send their taxpayers to Greece with Hohn and ultimately abandon them. That must be an end! Mr. Klubobmann Cap! I'll tell you something, too. They're coming out of there and whispering us, we've got to define the culprits. Do you know who your debtors are de facto? – The Austrian taxpayers, because they have to burn for what you are doing here, Mr. Klubobmann Cap! These are the guilty, and not those who stand behind them. The speculators, the banks, and all those who belong to them, it's meated, because they deserve a great deal of the whole story. They're already cashing off with Portugal. Next story. The interest-rate spiral is turning up again. Depreciation is already taking place. The next speculators are already on site. And what happens? Today you have told us that you are a great Greek and you have even learned Greek in school. I tell you, you will probably be a great Portuguese in autumn, a few months later a great Italian, a great Spaniard – what you are not all, Mr Klubobmann Cap. In your policy I tell you, and you understand, kali nicha, good night, Austria, if you continue to be in the government, Mr Klubobmann Cap. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] And then he takes the word “distributiveness ” into his mouth. Distribution justice in the current situation, where the only thing the SPÖ understands as distribution justice, is to distribute money justly to the Member States of the European Union. This is your distribution justice, and you can't see that people here in the country have less and less real income, that prices, debt and inflation are rising and that people can no longer afford to live. You've already forgotten that. You'd rather distribute the money somewhere else. [[In the case of the BZÖ, and the members of the FPÖ.]] Finally, Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Mr President, as you have done here today from the speaker's desk to the opposition, you are boldly speaking. And I listened very carefully. You, who are responsible for the highest debt in the Republic with your party, come out here and teach the opposition parties that their argumentation is only taken into account in a weaker atmosphere of beer tent. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign]] I guarantee you, Mr President, at the next National Council election you will have a similar atmosphere with you, but not for joy, but for sorrow about your election outcome. I wish you all the best.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e7465	No one is reported in the word anymore. I'll close the debate. The application has been properly submitted. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e7524	We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ing. Westenthaler, colleagues and colleagues on the failure of confidence towards the Federal Minister for Finance in accordance with Art. 74 para. 1 of the Federal Constitutional Act. In view of the fact that such a decision is taken by the National Council in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this paragraph. I expressly note the presence of half of the Members of Parliament in the terms of the Constitution quoted above. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of the motion for a reluctance to accept it. – The request is rejected. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[11:20:54]] 2. Point Report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on the Government Template (1223 D.B._Other Organiser Federal Law on the Promotion of Electricity Production from Renewable Energy Sources (OECD 2012 – ÖSG 2012) (1302 a.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e7572	We're coming to the 2nd. Agenda item. The rapporteur does not wish to report. The debate is initiated by Mr Ing. Hofer. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e7599	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The Ökostromgesetz has been working on us for many years. We have achieved some substantial improvements within the framework of the recent amendment we have decided here in the National Council, and I think that Austria is directly and directly affected by all the measures adopted here in Parliament in the field of eco electricity, simply because electricity prices, energy prices in Austria will rise in the next few years. We also expect a electricity price increase in Austria of about 10 percent per year due to the nuclear power exit in the Federal Republic of Germany. This is a very, very high value, which will also directly and directly affect and burden all people and all households, the traders, the industry. Therefore, the way to a new eco electricity law, which in fact allows us to rely much more on renewable domestic energy sources than before, was particularly important to us. The first draft presented by the Federal Minister before the major nuclear disaster in Japan was not a suitable way to make Austria more free and independent from fossil energy sources. I agree with you, Minister of State, in the last few weeks of the negotiations, you have done a great deal and you have made a great deal of effort to ensure that Austria needs renewable energy to put on track a suitable eco electricity law here. I would like to stress that at this stage the cooperation between the opposition parties was a very, very good one, because we wanted to avoid from the house that we were slowed down and we tried to decide the eco electricity law with the partner who makes it the cheapest. Thank you very much also to colleagues from BZÖ and Greens. [[Complaints with FPÖ and BZÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In the course of the last few hours of these negotiations, I have also announced what is particularly important to us, namely that we also protect biogas businesses and prevent some of these companies from going to bankruptcy in the next few weeks and months. Unfortunately, I have to note that the draft, which is available today, does not have sufficient measures to protect these establishments. Shortly before I started my speech, I received an e-mail from affected biogas operators who are in fact desperate because they have been active as pioneers in this field in recent years and have tried to set milestones in the field of biogas forward-looking for Austria. And precisely these companies are not now being given the necessary financial support in order to really survive. An example: Cascade use, including the use of raw materials that do not land on the plate, would be a very essential measure. We do not want food to be used in the field of energy production. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] For example, if a farmer does not rely on maize, but on manure, he has higher costs in the operation, because of the lower energy content and the plants have to be dimensioned completely differently. It is precisely this small cycle, this local cycle, to generate energy with dirt and then to bring the residuals into the field and use them there as fertilizers – that is not a fertiliser that smells then, as we all know from practice, but a really useful, environmentally friendly, good fertiliser for the farmer – would be a positive way. I am very sorry that this has not been achieved in the course of these negotiations. The second point: We have said that in Austria there are a number of taxes that are energy-related. Mineral oil tax, of course, is energy-related. Don't forget that VAT can also be paid through this mineral oil tax. That is to say, the revenue from the public's energy consumption is really enormous. [[Abg. Bitch: He pays massively! He's burning like a luster!]] That is why we have said that it would be a reasonable and good way, since now, in the Ecostrom Law on the Paying Point, the public will, of course, also bear the cost of this necessary measure, 50 € per household on average, a small business, a commercial enterprise about 400 € on average, at the same time as the decision on this Ecostrom Act also on wage and income tax on cold progression, in order to ensure that the citizen is not once again burdened that the trader is not once again burdened. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] This would also have been the way to ensure genuinely courageous, expensive funding in this area of income-neutral. Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to warn against a measure that is really dangerous for our economic location, which we in Bälde are to be consulted here in Parliament and decide on, the Emissions Certificate Act. The draft Emissions Certificate Act now provides for the domestic economy to make criminal payments, even though this economy produces very environmentally friendly, and then uses these funds, for example, to implement reforestation measures in developing countries, only so that the next dictator will come to strike the forest so forested. This, ladies and gentlemen, is not a wise energy policy! [[Abg. Blow: Inconvenient!]] We will have spent 1 billion € on emission certificates, 1 billion € invested abroad. We need this money here in Austria to create the energy transition. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] Each budget in Austria will have spent €200 on these emission certificates – money that is not used in Austria but flows abroad, and I also doubt that this money will be used there. Ladies and gentlemen! This is a cover under the cover of climate protection, and we do not want to support this path. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It cannot be said that businesses such as the Voest, which produce environmentally friendly products here in Austria, are being pushed abroad by such law-making decisions, then produce cheaply there without environmental conditions, only so that we can import the products produced there again to Austria. This is not a wise environmental and energy policy. We will not support such a course. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I therefore ask you, ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to climate protection, environmental protection and energy policy, to ensure that all the necessary measures and funding are carried out here in Austria in order to support our domestic economy as best as possible.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e7688	Next speaker: Mr Katzian. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e7710	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to return to what is on the agenda, namely the Eco electricity Act. Allow me to begin with a statement. As far as the Ecostrom Act, which is under discussion today, is concerned, we have managed to take a huge step in the negotiations over the last few weeks, on the one hand, in order to make energy production in Austria more sustainable, and on the other hand, to ensure that we are at least computerised without nuclear power by 2015. I mean, this is an important goal that we discussed here in the House just a few weeks ago. And I am convinced that with this bill we have succeeded accordingly. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We use two and a half times as much money as before. We support the expansion of renewable energies with €50 million. In 2015, eco electricity promotion will amount to € 550 million. The hydropower is already very high in Austria. That is, we have already had a very high share of ecoenergy. The measures we are discussing and deciding today will increase the share of eco-energy to over 80 percent. Ladies and gentlemen! We have a large number of debates on the Ecostrom Act behind us, in recent years, but also this year. At the beginning of March – I recall this – the Commission removed the so-called industrial cover, and as we began to discuss how the eco electricity continues, the Fukushima disaster came with all the consequences we know and the discussions that this disaster has triggered in Japan. In any case, the outcome of these discussions is quite clear: Worldwide, I believe, there is a very, very strong agreement today to say that nuclear energy is not a future technology, that nuclear energy is something you really cannot control, that there are many questions that have not been resolved that it is a failed path to energy policy. And that's why it was quite clear: If you don't want nuclear energy and if you know how fossil energy is developing, you can only rely on renewable energies. This is the way we have gone, and that is what we are doing today with this law. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Wöger.]] Without a doubt, the debate through the events in Fukushima has gained a very special dynamic worldwide, and without a doubt also in the debate around the law-making process – and we have concentrated very much on, also from the social democracy side – that we have to focus more and more on raw material-independent energy sources than on raw materials. It is clear from such negotiations that it is necessary to bring together many interests, many concerns and many economic needs of different actors across the renewable energy sector. And that was certainly not an easy way, because there are many different interests. What we have done with this law is that there will be massive investments in eco electricity generation, that we will make a big step towards greater independence from nuclear power. On this occasion, one must also say that eco electricity promotion is not something paid by the taxpayer in the form of any subsidies, but eco electricity is something that every consumer, every electricity user, has to pay. [[Abg. Dr. Karlsböck: This is also a taxpayer!]] This has already been so in the past, and that is what it is now, and therefore it is clear that if you turn away from certain energy sources, when you say you don't want to have a nuclear current, you can't make it so easy and say: The electricity comes out of the socket anyway!, but you also have to be ready to do something for renewable energies. It is therefore necessary for everyone to make a corresponding contribution. What was important to us is also to ensure that the economic performance of each player is taken into account accordingly. And so in the knowledge – also from studies of the Chamber of Workers – we have determined to increase energy poverty, that eco electricity promotion is limited to 20 € especially for social weak, and that is linked to the exemption from fees at the ORF. We believe that an important step has been taken to avoid the necessary conversion of our energy system on the back of the socially weak. That was a particularly important concern for us. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Wöger.]] At the other end of this discussion chain stood and stood the energy-intensive industry. And there, too, it was our concern to ensure that the energy-intensive industry does not get a disadvantage at the location of the eco electricity expansion. That was a difficult spa. I mean, at the end of the day we succeeded. In the last episode, however, production, the production of energy, is only part of a sustainable energy policy in the future. We have the second step ahead of us, which is the expansion of energy efficiency. I've always said, Energy efficiency is the largest power plant! Energy efficiency is also at the heart of social democratic energy policy. That is why I am here today bringing in the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Peter Haubner, Wolfgang Katzian, colleagues on the contribution of energy efficiency to the sustainable energy future of Austria. I ask you to consult him accordingly. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to thank the opposition for many constructive and content, as I mean, very demanding discussions, even in the last few hours, you can almost say, but especially in recent weeks. I would be very pleased if this commitment to a modern energy policy in Austria could be achieved with a joint request and a joint decision-making of all five parties. Unfortunately, this has not succeeded. All the more so, I am very glad that we are obviously able to vote clearly today – a vote that also shows that the large majority in this House are available for a future with renewable energies and that we are taking the right steps here. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e7779	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled has been presented in its main guidelines and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e7941	Next speaker: Mrs. Klubobfrau Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e7962	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) It is true that we have fought in this house, but not only in this house, but above all at this point very often over the eco electricity law and over the eco electricity expansion, for good reason, because in this area – and when you look at the past years, you find that – really something like “the desert”. This is how I would like to describe it again: While in many neighbouring countries, in many European countries the post has literally expired, economic policy, technology policy, there was something like total resignation in Austria. While in 2009, for example, the technology, which was the most invested in Europe by the energy policy dimensions, was the wind energy, in Austria no single windwheel was built this year. We have experienced neighbouring countries such as the Czech Republic in this period, which in a very short period of month, in a year and a half alone in the area of the solar current, have achieved benefits from the one and a half times of the Temelín power plant. This is mentioned here in order to clarify what has been done internationally, while Austria has actually complied with a so-called limitation law on the brake. The dynamic that has now been achieved in this area, obviously also through the possibility of a two-thirds majority, is all the more pleasing. I would like to stress that it is very important for us not only to talk about as big avenues as the project to achieve energy independence or energy autarchy by 2050, but also to talk about it, because the talk only makes sense if we actually take the first concrete steps. And these first concrete steps are now being taken with this eco electricity law, with this novel, in fact, which I would like to expressly appreciate. We are in some areas really at a level that is not real. While we can offer 0.1 percent in the area of the solar current, countries like Bavaria, with Austria of the size, are already in a 6 percent range of solar currents. I share the assessment that the electricity price will rise. However, I believe that the only correct answer is to invest in technologies that are actually future-proof. This law, including the increase in funding, therefore means price security for consumers in the medium and long term. It is actually the opposite of the fear that some people have here, namely that the electricity price for households will become one more expensive, the case. Look at the oil price trend! Look at how it was before the economic crisis! Look at the dependencies in which Austria is located here! – The electricity price depends on the oil price. The gas price depends on the oil price. And since another industry and economy is building, not only in security of supply, but also economic policy, it is a very good and right decision. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Only so that I can show you once again what potentials are in these technologies: In recent years, 75 nuclear power plants in Europe have been replaced, so to speak, by wind power, from installed power. And on the basis of this eco electricity law – and I would like to measure it by the scale of the nuclear power plants of the size of Temelín, so that we can imagine what expansion volumes will be achieved in the next few years – we will be building two Temelín blocks of wind energy in the next few years, if this law should actually take effect. We build one and a half blocks of solar current, a block of hydropower. That's not to be underestimated. Temelín is one of the world's largest power plants: 1,000 megawatts. And we build the four and a half times of a block of Temelín alone in the field of renewable energy sources. And that's something nice. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It is a step towards greater independence from nuclear power; I would like to expressly pay tribute to it once again. In recent years, we have had constant discussions with the Chamber of Labour, and also with many who have been particularly concerned with the development of household prices. I think that it was necessary to get away from the centenary and the euro, and to pay more attention to what the national economy brings for security, that is a huge common step that we should continue to work on. Economic policy is a huge advantage for many Austrian regions. It will strengthen the regional economy, the order books of installers, solareurs, by many companies that now work to 99 percent export-oriented, will become full. This also means more tax revenue from businesses. This will strengthen regional structures. Under the rule, this is a right decision both socially and economically. We've been negotiating until the last second. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Brunner.]] I speak a bit fast, dear Christian, because I only have 7 minutes of speech, but I am happy because I have been angry at this place so many times and have so often insulted my colleague's head for his garden orientation, I think, but I take it back here today expressly. I notice here that there has actually been a rethinking. Until the last minute was negotiated, until the last minute was negotiated with open ears, And that's important! Negotiations, which are, so to speak, only around two-thirds of the majority, are a pity because content under the rule does not really come out well. This law is now absolutely acceptable in terms of content. I'd say the desert is gonna be green. [[Demonstratative condolences with the Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] Yeah, it was a desert before. I am particularly saying this as a green person, which is not so easily satisfied on such issues. However, it is only the first step, we have many more to go. It is a step towards enabling more investment volume, more market dynamics. I would like us to continue our efforts in autumn with the aim of consistently turning off nuclear imports. This means that there is no longer any nuclear power to act, which should mean that the large energy suppliers are slowly abandoning this business area. I would also like to see something going on in the field of climate protection. Mr Hofer said something quite right: We had to buy out emission certificates because we have not managed to achieve the climate targets in the last four years. – That’s really pathetic! We could have saved that. This has been a lot of money that we could have needed very well for our own economy. But I'm fine. It's late, but we'll start again. I would like this law to bring exactly what this industry is expecting. It's a lot to do now. It is only the first step, and we hope that further steps will be taken. Thank you, above all, to the content-based negotiators, especially to Christiane Brunner, who achieved a great deal of expertise by last night with regard to an important environmental success. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e8077	Next speaker: Mr Haubner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e8099	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen in the High Authority House! “The state also protects the natural basis of life in responsibility for the future generations” – it is not in the Austrian Constitution, but in the German Basic Law, Article 20, but it has been quoted very often in the context of the Austrian Convention. It is precisely these natural living grounds that we find these living resources in our nature in Austria. These include the water, the wind and the sun, and these resources can also be used for energy policy without we consume them, so-called renewable energy sources. They can be used in a variety of forms in our country. And this is also the core of our energy policy in Austria. An essential advantage of our energy policy is certainly also hydropower, and it is a fact that the ecological benefits of hydropower allow them to be one of the environmentally friendly electricity generation technologies due to their low emissions and sustainability. We rely without If and But on these renewable energy sources, and this shows clearly the current novelle of the eco electricity law. As mentioned above, this novelle brings needed and, above all, clear improvements to the law in force, and these rules are, above all, market-oriented and transparent. It is also our political responsibility to pay attention to the efficiency and, above all, to the competitiveness of the Austrian economy in the use of our energy resources, so that we can make the final consumption for the eco electricity financially affordable and thus remain affordable. Even though we in Europe are leading the use of renewable energies, which is undoubtedly pleasing, we have been very ambitious – I emphasize: very ambitious! – but also set goals in line with the industry by 2020. These objectives also clearly exceed the National Action Plan. Thus, we will reach 80 percent of the share of renewable energy in public electricity consumption in the coming period by 2020. I believe that we also support Austrian demands, because more than 70 percent of Austrians want clean electricity. Therefore, our goal is to replace the nuclear power imports bilaterally by 2015. Nuclear power is out, and with the right energy mix of water, wind, biomass and sun, we create an Austria independent of electricity imports. That's supposed to be our goal. That was the starting point for our negotiations, and that was also the objective of our negotiations on this law. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Thus, we can rightly say that this eco electricity law is a major energy policy throw. I am pleased that the Greens have given up their blockade policy in the two-thirds of the majority and that they are also involved in this law, because I believe that this is very important in this area. I would particularly like to thank the BZÖ, because the negotiations with the BZÖ were very constructive, even here very much. I am pleased that we have come to a solution here together. I believe that this is very important for Austria, for the energy policy in Austria and also for the people in Austria. Ladies and gentlemen, we have set ourselves ambitious goals in energy policy – I have already mentioned it – because we are simply convinced that by promoting renewable energies we will preserve our livelihoods for the next generations and will also ensure that our children and children can also benefit economically. I'll tell you why. Renewable energies are environmentally friendly in ecological design and contribute particularly to climate protection – and this is very important to us! They are low-risk and, in case of doubt, easily recuperable. In particular, they create new jobs in important future sectors, especially in structurally weak regions. And above all, they have a high export potential on the world market – and this is very important. We want to become a electricity exporter from the electricity importer, which is another objective. Renewable energies also provide many incentives for investment in modern technologies. They are simply the prerequisite for sustainable energy supply in Austria. These are all reasons why we worked together with great effort on this eco electricity law. I would like to thank once again all those who have made this possible, especially Minister Mitterlehner, who, with his preliminary work, has created the basis for these decisions today. I think that was important, and thank you, Minister, for these preparations in this respect. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I am also very pleased that we have found a large majority here in the House, because with your consent you demonstrate your responsibility for the people of our country and the will for sustainability. In this sense, I am now bringing in second reading an amendment tabled by Mr Peter Haubner, Wolfgang Katzian, Mag. Christiane Brunner, Mag. Rainer Widmann, colleagues on the Government Template (1223 of the Supplements) concerning a federal law on the promotion of electricity generation from renewable energy sources (Eco electricity law 2012) as amended by the Committee's report (1302 of the Supplements). This amendment has already been distributed. With regard to the objective, I would just like to briefly explain the key points. – There will be a cap in the eco electricity amounting to € 50 million, which will be reduced by € 1 million annually within the first ten years of entry into force. It is planned to increase the contribution to applicants in the queue, especially in the wind, from 60 million to 80 million. Furthermore, the following objectives are set in this proposal: In 2015, we want to reach 500 MW in photovoltaics, and in 2020 it will be 1,200 MW. The other points that are still set out in this proposal concern very many technical details. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, if we continue to pursue our objectives consistently and sustainably, we will be able to further strengthen our leadership in Europe in energy policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e8211	The amendment has been explained in its main points, is under negotiation, is copied and distributed. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e8772	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Widmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e8794	Mr President. High house! I can start with the succus of this law: “Get us out of the sun! The future has begun.” A book by my friend Hans Kronberger, who describes the situation of energy supply very well and also explains what is necessary in order to make Austria energy self-sufficient, with clean energy, but also for consumers and also for businesses and industry. [[The speaker introduces the addressed book to the speaker's desk.]] And that this is feasible, we have, I think, supported this decision, which is being brought about today, with this eco electricity law. The goal is cheaper, clean electricity, but also more competition to reduce the costs for households, for businesses. I also thank the negotiators of the opposition parties, but also the government. There has been very good, constructive discussions, but last night the time was ripe to close the bag and make nails with heads to really enforce this law. And when I hear calls from the FPÖ, Please, dear friends of the FPÖ, I know that Norbert Hofer is a good negotiator, I know he would like to vote, but I also know that your hump dump arguments will certainly not secure the future of Austria. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The law is a very difficult matter. This is about weighing off the interests between households, businesses, industry. It is about taking into account the demands of the eco-sector, from wind power to photovoltaics to hydropower – and you can't cover everything. It was addressed for cascade use. I also worked for this, but there were unfortunately certain blockade trends on the part of the SPÖ Group. But the point is: Gas will become 8 percent more expensive this year, the price of the barrel oil will rise from 100 € to 200 € in the foreseeable future. And nuclear current – which has been addressed – will also become more expensive. If we do not start to secure our supply here in Austria with local energy, we will pay a lot of what we already have to pay for electricity over a short or long time. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] It is about getting out of the dependency, out of the grip of fossil energy. It is about not being dependent on the gas pipeline Putins anymore. However, it is also about pursuing credible anti-atomic policies in this country. And only those who secure green electricity here can also appear crediblely outwards and say that they are opposed to nuclear power. We of the BZÖ are concerned with making Austria energy self-sufficient, supporting future technologies, promoting the future. That is why we have also insisted that we will now receive € 2 million from the Ministry of Economic Affairs – thanks, Mr Minister, for doing so – in order to advance research in these areas, it is very important that we also carry out research to build businesses that are also marketable and that can then create thousands of new jobs here in Austria. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I think it is a major failure to invest the money, billions that we are currently moving for gas and oil abroad, about 12 billion in the future in Austria. I wonder where the credibility of the FPÖ has remained in the anti-atomic policy. [[Abg. Strache: Enoughly paid!]] They pay for nuclear power. You are the Atom Lobby, Mr. Strache! [[As a result, the Commission has not yet received any comments from the interested parties.]] [[Abg. Strache: The next electricity increase you have to answer!]] They're the lobbyist in the nuclear industry. You're the price driver. They are without future prospects. [[Abg. That's absurd!]] You fired! Enough strache!, I say. That's the subject. Because the photovoltaic... – Listen to me! [[Abg. You're dizzy again, gal?]] Perhaps you will also listen to sakha arguments – and not only on beautiful populist posters. With them you won't win any more elections, no more at all! [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] It is about strengthening the photovoltaic with 8 million, the biomass with 10 million, wind power gets up to 80 million, the small hydropower 1.5 million. And the waiting list for photovoltaics and wind power is also dismantled. All that you promise from the FPÖ in Sunday's speeches, all that you promise to the regular tables, your environmental speaker must not implement, because you argue with cheap arguments against the future of Austria. I congratulate you, Mr. Strache! [[As a result, the Commission has not yet received any comments from the interested parties.]] There are, of course, other points that were important to us when, for example, investment is being made in the expansion of combined heat and power. That's where we got through. [[New calls to the FPÖ.]] There is more money for the medium hydropower. There are administrative simplifications. There is planning security, and there is the goal of generating 25 percent renewable energy from eco-power plants by 2020. The two-year break down with evaluations. And we're going to discuss these reports here, and I'm excited to see if the FPÖ is back. No says – again Yes says to gas, again Yes says to oil, again Yes says to atomic current. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I have already mentioned this to dissuade your hump-dump arguments: 20 € pay Their native voters maximum if they are freed from the GIS fees. This is social: maximum 20 € per year. Per year! We have maintained that the companies are relieved by the counting point fee fixed by 100 € annually. And we will enforce – and I make a request to do so – that households will save up to €200 a year by the possibility of electronic changes, because the change of providers will be strengthened because competition will be strengthened and then the additional costs will be completely reduced, Mr. Strache. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] These are real success of action – not blue air bubbles – which is a concrete policy that looks to the future of Austria. I shall therefore conclude by bringing forward the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Member. Widmann, ladies and gentlemen, who read as follows: The National Council wants to decide: “The Federal Government is invited to forward to the National Council as soon as possible a draft law allowing an online change of energy supply in the electricity and gas sectors.” Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e8938	The request which has just been submitted is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e9012	President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e9033	Mr President. Dear colleague dog-tores! Ladies and gentlemen! We have the goal of making Austria nuclear power free, as soon as possible, but at the same time also the competitiveness of the economy and the burden on the consumer, that this is as low as possible. That is why we have a very important issue today, and I believe that this law, which we have now, does not even need to hide comparisons with other countries in the sector. And: Please forget the assessment design! From the outset, it was clear to me that we still have to do so in the negotiations, when it comes to the approval of the opposition. Everything I'd put down would have been too little. And that's why you have to measure what's available today. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] And I believe that what is available is more than many may have expected, and that this will also bring us further, and I can then take a short look at the objectives. What mechanism do we adopt with this law? We increase from 21 million annual funding to 50 million. But the figures in themselves are not the decisive one, but we are going back to 40 million in the 50, because we are not, as a whole, seeking support for money because of it, but the market maturity of renewable energy. Second: We have seen that it is a problem that waiting lists exist: in photovoltaics up to 2024, in wind less long, but there are at least long lists. Therefore, we have created the mechanism to reduce the total expansion volume of 110 million as a one-time amount of all these waiting projects – with a tariff which is slightly lower but still attractive enough that the projects will also be implemented. It is certainly not that we are just saying that, but it will also prove by having a two-year revision report, and we will determine whether what we have thought will be realized. What is the decisive thing about this? I believe that the most important thing is that we are nuclear-free by 2015 with these measures, proven, with an overhang, and that we are producing so much electricity from renewable energy by 2020 that we could provide all 3.6 million households. So that's not just a crack anymore, but that's very, very much. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] As far as renewable energy is concerned, we have a 34% target, which is partly criticized as too little. We will achieve this goal. I think it is better to do so, we have seen it in climate protection: rather keep the ball flat and shoot many goals – we will reach over 35 percentage points. The third thing I think is essential: Many citizens rely on photovoltaics. And, Mr Hofer, we have really secured Biogas in itself with 4 cents. So there must be exceptions to the e-mails. In principle, everyone in this area should be happy. But as I said, many citizens rely on photovoltaics. I believe that we now have a great start-up funding that will help us reach market maturity by 2015 through network parity. For we do not want a funding system where everyone somehow gets a lot of money at 13 years, but competitiveness. And because we have in there 50 percent silicon and on the other hand also the costs that arise regionally, that's exactly the potential we need. With this boost, our economy can develop technologically accordingly. That means that there is also a great potential for expansion. And: With the degression, the costs also go down accordingly. What we also have in the debate is the question: What does it look like? Would not unlimited funding have been better? Thanks to everyone, especially from the industry that has seen, it is much better to have planning, continuity, as we are doing, namely potential-oriented. Why? We now have all sectors: Water – there is an investment promotion of €16 million – biomass, biogas, wind and photovoltaics, so shared with the industries, that precisely the eligible potentials are covered. What does this mean for us, ladies and gentlemen? – Security of supply, continuity and exactly the planning that we need. I therefore believe that we have a legal basis in total, that we have framework conditions that should help us further – and that should help the industry in particular. In this context, I should like to thank the coalition partner – Mr Hundstorfer is sitting here – but also the SPÖ energy speaker Katzian, but also, of course, the representatives of the opposition, especially the energy spokespersons, Mrs Brunner, Mr Widmann, especially our Peter Haubner, who led the final negotiations. And I would also like to mention very, very positive Mr Hofer in this regard. Unfortunately, we did not find out what the decision-making process was, but it was the President-in-Office of the Court of Justice who has done so in a conceptual way. [[Abg. Scheibner: He can't!]] For example, the proposal to work degressively with the €10 million and thus produce market pressure, by Mr Hofer. So thank you very much for this cooperation. We still have several issues to deal with and deal with in this area. [[It was in favour of ÖVP and FPÖ, as well as representatives of Greens and BZÖ.]] But I would also like to thank the industry as a whole, but I cannot now call all industry representatives, there are too many. I would like, as it were, to lead Mr Plank from the Austrian Renewable Energy Association, who has really been acting serious in his negotiating process, because it really does not make sense to let us go up, then to have no security of supply and no more financing, but it should all be serious, and I think it is. Ladies and gentlemen, at the end also a great thank you to my own house; there was really much to do there. Perhaps you have read this article in the “Falter” in which it was to be read – Mrs Glawischnig has addressed similar things with the desert – that Ökostrom would be a stepchild of Austrian politics. – I can only tell you that I have more busy with this stepchild – and probably this is the case with some of you – than with my own children. I hope that with these subsidies, we will not allow the child to be raised or transferred in a wrong direction, but I believe that we have ensured a balance there and that it is clear that this decision on eco-electrics, in terms of renewable energy, will contribute to the competitiveness of our country, as well as, of course, the security of supply and the freedom of electricity from nuclear power plants. In this sense a thank you again to all those involved.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e9096	Next speaker: Mr Ing. May. Kuzdas. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e9117	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Today is a good day for eco-energy, and I believe that is a forward-looking law. However, it is a pity that, for some reasons, not all parties agree. Already with the novel to the 2008 Ecostrom Act, the expansion stop caused by the 2006 law has been lifted. The 2009 amendment, and in particular the 2010 regulation, has just started a boom in the areas of wind energy and photovoltaics. With the novelle to be decided today, we are again taking a big step in the right direction towards achieving the target for 2015 and 2020. In concrete terms, this means an increase in the hydropower of 1,000 megawatts, the wind power of 2,000 megawatts, depending on the availability of the sites, biomass and biogas 200 megawatts, depending on the available raw materials, and the photovoltaic 1000 megawatts. The target achievement will also be monitored by the E-Control in the future; if necessary, there will also be an increase by means of a government template by the Minister of Economic Affairs. Ladies and gentlemen! Despite all the complaints one hears over and over again, the areas of eco-power generation are developing very well, in particular photovoltaics and wind power have achieved very good expansion rates. Unfortunately, as a result of the economic crisis in some federal states, the funding for photovoltaics was discontinued. In the municipalities too, support has been reduced, precisely because of financial turbulence in the municipalities. Especially with the current novel, the photovoltaic is highlighted again: more money and easier processing, especially for the photovoltaic small plants. Mr Schultes, you misunderstanded me in the committee when I spoke about wind power. Of course, I welcome the fact that wind power operators are tearing around good locations and that they are also making an Obolus for them. Of course, I welcome this because we can do very well with the money in the communities, but that is not the case. I already said it in committee: In my home community, too, we have unanimously decided to further expand wind turbines, because this is necessary in the sense Ecology and because it also has the effect of making it better for the communities, the citizens. I would like to make this clear again. The price of wind energy – we know that, and this is reflected in the remarks here – is already very close to the market price. It is ultimately about this market parity, and there is also a need for cost-truth. If anyone says nuclear power is clean, that's not true at all. And if someone says nuclear power is cheap, then that's not true, because accident costs are not calculated, all external costs are not taken into account – and above all, a fact must be taken into account: There is not yet a single approved warehouse worldwide; of course, this should also be taken into account. With wind turbines, we know that the technology changes – larger machines, the research and development costs are being transferred to more plants, better rotor technology – the yield is constantly increasing. So we're almost at the market price. Unfortunately, this is not the case with photovoltaic systems. This – the Federal Minister has already mentioned it – is due to the increased prices of raw materials, but is also due to the lack of effectiveness. This is about putting in place the right measures to promote so that we can invest in development so that research is driven forward – and thus, finally, also because of this technological leap we all expect. Finally, ladies and gentlemen: The improvement of the promotion of eco-energy is essential; we agree. In particular, wind and solar energy – and this is beyond doubt – are now and in the future the safest sources of energy, and above all it is the cheapest energy sources, because they do not send us any bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e9187	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Schools. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e9209	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Kuzdas, ladies and gentlemen, we have had a debate in the Committee on Ecoenergy. You said at that time 25 000 € for a community as a location for a windwheel is a bit of a lot. – I have responded: A good location is always worth it. And now, as I mean, we can understand very well. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Kuzdas: I believe so!]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are concerned that we are all reorientating in a time of re-thinking the whole world on energy policy issues, on issues of energy provision in the future, but also on issues of impact – climate change, consequences of nuclear energy use – and this is also the case in Austria with this eco- electricity law. In this regard, we have a long discussion phase behind us, and it is obvious that only the sad event of Fukushima has to happen that some groups in Austria, which have very persistently slowed down the discussion, have given up their resistance. I say it quite openly: I do not understand that the Freedom Party is constantly calling for an anti-atomic policy, which is very loud, but then those colleagues from the FPÖ who demand it loudest are not here at all, where it concerns the eco electricity law. And then they will probably also be against the decision that we seriously banish the nuclear current from the Austrian networks. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In the next few years, the Ökostrom Act will open the way for us to expand, it will help to resolve both wind power and biomass, as well as biomass as solid biomass, even in the liquid biomass to secure existing plants, new plants, and we will allow many people to be able to use energy from their own production in their own homes, on their roofs, which they need for the sense of being able to use energy from their own production. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is really important for us to develop some basic ideas in this debate on eco electricity. The first is climate protection, away from oil, away from the gas. This is not just a matter of electricity, it concerns our entire energy industry. The second topic is more value added in Austria. We have good companies that are providers in the field of renewable energy sources to bring innovation, bring research. There are many people who have work there. Of course, we also want to have the facilities with us in Austria and not only stand abroad. And there's another point. We are also concerned about making the system sustainable. We are concerned with providing energy of our own strength, with own energy sources for our future. The Ökostromgesetz offers an opportunity for long-term sustainable development. The Ecostrom Act is now on a stand where everyone can say: That's what we wanted, it'll work. I would like to thank our Federal Minister Reinhold Mitterlehner, who has really discussed the whole industry in a new way; his employees and officials have done this very well. I am also pleased that some who have had very, very serious concerns, namely the biogas operators and their associations, are among us today. For you today will probably be one where you can say: Now it's right again! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] I wish you much joy in the future, in the consciousness of doing a meaningful work. You will not be rich with it, but at least you will feel that you are doing what Austria needs – and that is always the job for us here: good work for our country, sustainable, environmentally friendly, climate-friendly. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr Pirklhuber]] - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e9282	Next speaker: Deputy Grazauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e9304	Mr President. Federal Minister! First of all, a few words about the BZÖ: From now on, you can create your “genuine paid!” buttons, because you’re in favour of the taxpayers, households, businesses and SMEs taking on more burden again. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: You usually talk, Mr. Cot!]] A thank you also to the Federal Minister that he is fair enough to acknowledge that our colleague Hofer has contributed significantly to the fact that these contents have been put into paper and are now written in the law. [[Abg. Scheibner: Why can't he agree?]] Thank you, Minister, that was very decent of you! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This also confirms that we could fully cooperate with this new law in terms of content, but as far as prices and the development of subsidies are concerned, it is a pity. That's our job: We liberals are in favour of slow electricity, and unfortunately this is not the case at the moment. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The example of the fact that 300 000 households are to be excluded in the case of green electricity, because they can no longer afford a further increase in electricity prices, is an indication that the electricity price has already developed into a social issue. In recent times, the Austrian energy suppliers have reached enormous amounts of electricity and gas. From June 2008 to July 2010, there were price changes in electricity of up to 28 percent and gas of up to 27 percent. The result is that electricity prices in Austria have reached the top of Europe. You can read this in the e-control report recently published. – Further price increases are not reasonable and can no longer be endured for our households and SMEs, ladies and gentlemen. The new eco electricity law is actually going back to the EU, to this 20-20-20 rule: By 2020, 20 percent less CO2 will be emitted, 20 percent less energy consumption and 20 percent more alternative energy will be generated. – All of this sounds wonderful. For example, the Voest costs 100 million CO2 certificates by 2013. Mr. General Director Eder has recently expressed at a press conference that the Voest will no longer invest in Upper Austria if this is not changed, and that he is thinking of business settlements outside the EU, for example in Ukraine. – A deindustrialization would be the result of this law! This is a bleak thing, a job destruction, ineconomics, and I am surprised that social democracy is participating in this nonsense. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Herbs.]] Moreover, the environment would have nothing at all. Overregulation of the EU is a threat to the freedom of all Austrian citizens in the long term. For this reason, the Ecostrom Act must also be rejected in this form. It is always said that it costs €50 million more. That's not right, ladies and gentlemen. It costs a total of €400 million, and year after year. That's what households pay, that's what SMEs pay, that's what businesses pay – and that's not what we're doing. Why, Mr. Federal Minister, did you not tap the moss? You increased the most by €500 million. It'd be easy to get out of here! They would not have had to negotiate further increases in electricity prices at all. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] It also discussed the market maturity of eco-products. There's no sign of that! We promote and sponsor, never end. In order to counter this, I submit the following request:
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e9407	The motion for a resolution is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e9459	We're late in the time march table. I call for precise compliance with speaking times. Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Brunner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e9483	Mr President. Mr Energieminister! Ladies and gentlemen, as well as sisters here and at home! Today we can finally take a first step in terms of energy change. I would also like to thank you, Mr Energieminister, for your open access to this subject over the last few weeks, and I also agree with all the energy speakers here in the House for the very constructive cooperation. I hope that we can continue to do so on other issues that are still pending. I would also like to thank all the staff in the clubs, in our case with Mrs Neyer and Mr Günsberg, and also with the officials and staff in the ministry, because I think there have been a lot of people in the last hours, days and weeks who have put a lot of commitment on this matter. [[It is a pleasure to the Greens and to representatives of SPÖ, ÖVP and BZÖ.]] I would also like to thank the associations, NGOs and all the pioneers who have been fighting for years and decades for the energy transition in Austria. I believe that today, together, we have achieved a first important step. I think we can also be happy about it together. We have achieved that the resources available for green electricity are more than doubled. We have achieved that the installed power of wind power is tripled in Austria, with photovoltaics we have even achieved a doubling. That'll trigger a boom. We finally have clear targets in Austria for the energy transition and also planning security for the eco-sector, which is finally the blockade and can really start and show what it can do. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We have succeeded in providing more resources for the reduction of the queue, which has been formed through this blockade. There will be € 108 million to make it possible to invest quickly in the energy transition. That was also an important goal of ours, because it does not help us if the Minister of Agriculture talks about the 2050 objectives. These are important, but we must act now and start now! These decisions can now also be quickly invested in the energy transition. We also need this if we look at our catastrophic climate balance. This requires more resources for renewable energy, and we need this if we are to become independent not only of nuclear power but also of fossil electricity. From our point of view, the Ecostrom Act has always been the heart of the energy transition. That's it today. We have, I think, made high standards. With our consent we also grant a green seal of goodness for it because this law will really trigger a boom. Getting Home You might ask yourself: What does that actually bring me? – I think it brings a lot to the individual Austrian, even to personal advantages, because if you look at the price of electricity, if you look at the price of oil, you can see one thing very clearly: In the 2000s, the oil price was an average of 10 dollars, and today we have been at over 100 dollars for months. That is, the oil price will rise and thus the electricity price. One thing is obvious: Only investments in renewable energy can keep energy prices stable in the medium term and in the long term, only investments in renewable energy will create jobs even in your regions, secure jobs in regional enterprises, and only investments in renewable energy can make us independent of nuclear power and also independent of fossil imports, because budgets now pay as much as €14 billion a year. – Only investments in renewable energy can get us out of this case. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This law is not the end of the flag rod, but a first step. It has a clear green handwriting. I think other laws can also tolerate them when I think of the Climate Change Act or the Energy Efficiency Act – energy efficiency as an essential part of the green energy transition. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] We are willing to cooperate there and continue this constructive work. Nevertheless, I still believe that Austria needs an independent, strong and committed Ministry of the Environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e9571	Next speaker: Mr Scheibner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e9593	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It has already been mentioned that this time – in exception, one has unfortunately to say – there has been a very good cooperation between the government parties, the minister and the opposition. I believe, Minister of State, that has not been a bad example for the future. I think we all agree that the law that is in place here today is much better and for all of us is better than the original proposal. It is asked again and again: Does the opposition have any proposals? Is she bringing something in? – I believe that this law, this ecostrom law, has shown that by involving a subject-oriented opposition, with interlocutors who are also with the heart and the brain in the matter, we are much furthering along with a minister who allows it. Unfortunately, it is no longer so anchored in the ÖVP – perhaps precisely because it is too consensus-oriented, even with its economic wings. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the BZÖ.]] But this is exemplary, and we would be pleased to continue to organise it this way in the future – and here it is about future technologies. Ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, Mr Grastaur, you said that we should put down our 'genuine pay' boards. [[Abg. Graubur: You've already brought her down!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] That's exactly what you're saying, where Mr Hofer is sitting; I don't know what's going on in him now. I've known him for many years: I know he's an expert, and he's really with his heart right now and he's been involved in the negotiations – but he's unfortunately not allowed to agree, because you're just as small in your opinion: Aha, there could be additional costs from € 1 to 2 per month, and that's why we don't want to! – No, about 20 € a year it was called. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: A year! 2 € a year!]] But this is exactly the line of the FPÖ, which I do not understand, just as this is happening now, namely to say: Yeah, there's something to pay. I say to you how we understand “genuinely paid! ” “Genuinely paid!” in an inflated administration, “genuine paid!” in waste of politics, “genuine paid!” into an overly tax system – but not enough invested in future technologies that bring value creation, jobs or positive energy areas for the future. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] What is the problem with the overestimated electricity price? – It’s true, the electricity price and also the gas prices are overly high, but why? [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: Because the BZÖ supplement is still on it!]] – Because there is too little competition! Not the 1 € from now on in the eco electricity is the problem, but there is no competition in the area! And that's why it was for us, too, for ours. Energy spokesperson Widmann and for the BZÖ as a whole so important to carry out this motion for a resolution. It was a condition for us that in the future it would be easier to change the energy supplier, because it is theoretically possible, but practically so difficult that it hardly makes anyone. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This brings competition and cost-saving to the energy user, which goes far beyond what he might now have to pay for. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz.]] Only one thing, Mr Federal Minister, will be important in the future, also at European level: We do not want to see tax funds, which are reasonably invested in promoting energy technologies, actually funding Chinese and Asian value added, because the modules and panels are now coming from there especially for photovoltaic systems. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker.]] There is something to be done to promote our businesses in Austria and Europe, perhaps also by giving funding to large-scale projects, where the speculators are sitting, to the fact that there is also Austrian and European value added, and not that these funds are going to China and Korea.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e9701	Next speaker: Mrs Hakel. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e9722	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would particularly like to welcome today the Linz Pensionist Association, which sits on the visitor gallery: Welcome! [[Congratulations with SPÖ, ÖVP and Greens.]] Today, we decide – hopefully with a very large majority – an eco electricity law that allows Austria to get out of nuclear power imports and complete self-sufficiency with clean electricity by 2020. At this point, I would also like to thank Greenpeace, Global 2000 and the other NGOs that have helped us in the last few weeks during the negotiations with their valuable inputs. The achievement of this objective is, of course, also associated with appropriate costs. However, the fair distribution of these costs to the individual customer groups was provided by the SPÖ. A scheme has been established for the weakest incomes, which will cause these vulnerable customers, despite increasing eco-electric growth, not to face annual burdens beyond €20 per year. The right to claim for this restriction is linked to the exemption from broadcasting charges. The preparation of the domestic economy for the new challenges of renewable energy shows an example from my home district of Liezen. The construction of the largest Styrian photovoltaic plant has been planned for three years at the Kaiserau in Admont. The development costs for this project already amount to €70 000 – costs that are now fully borne by the domestic economy and contribute to the stabilisation of the electricity price in the longer term. Around 10 hectares in size should be the largest photovoltaic system of the Styria, beautifully embedded in the Kaiserau countryside and surrounded by forest. It will not be located in any landscaped protected area and will – now it comes! – supply 1 000 households in the Admont region with clean electricity. So it's all fixed and finished, and the project is just waiting for the start, yet this project is blocked by the area-dwelling department of the state of Styria – a resort of the FPÖ Landesrats Kurzmann. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: Bravo, Kurzmann!]] In the country of Styria, as here in Parliament, FPÖ prevents our children from growing up in a clean and healthy environment, an environment without nuclear current. [[Abg. Kickl: That's an unfavorable thing!]] Mr. Hofer, in your speech at the National Council meeting on 18 November. September 2009 explain to us how important an energy transition for Austria is for our population. They address precisely these points that we want to decide today, and they are so necessary. I ask you now – I can present it to you later, if you do not remember –: Why does FPÖ not agree today? [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] – I can tell you: Because the FPÖ is not as always in its word, which it proclaims in great detail.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e9797	Next speaker: Mr. Hörl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e9819	Mr. Minister! Mr President. High house! An eco electricity law is always a rope dance between location policy and future security of our own energy, and in case of a crash we lose jobs and thus prosperity. Mrs Brunner, I have to say that I recognize your merits, but we leave the church in the village: The draft of this eco electricity law bears the handwriting of our Minister Reinhold Mitterlehner, and this eco electricity law of course also bears a black manuscript, namely that of the Austrian People's Party. [[Interlocutory calls from Deputies Mag. Brunner and Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek]] In the eco-social market economy of our Joschi Riegler there are, in fact, the principles that we are also here, in this eco- electricity law. I think this is a contribution to the sustainable development of our own energy supply to make us more independent, but we also take care that we do not overlook the social component, namely that we secure jobs and that we do not exaggerate our location. We found a balanced mix. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In total, this eco electricity law is about real money. So far, we are spending € 340 million, and it will be € 550 million. I believe that this is a sum that is respectful and that we can be proud of Austrians, because we will also be in the first place in Europe. Eco-current rate and eco-current promotion will cost the budget by €11 according to calculations from our Ministry of Economic Affairs. So we will go in the direction of €52.5 per household with 3 500 kilowatts connection in 2015. I think that this is a sum which the Austrians would like to afford in view of the positive euphoria that is currently in place for renewable energies and which, of course, we also need to promote. The lid remains – that has already been said – and that is good. An uncontrolled and completely out-of-control support regime like in Germany must and should not afford. We can't believe that to the electricity customers either. The FPÖ's model of financing the eco electricity from the tax budget is actually a good shame, but it's just a shame, a short-sighted event, because at the end of the day, the taxpayer, the consumer, 1.9 million Austrians who pay taxes would finance it. That is why this is also to be rejected. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] For low-income households – that has also been said – this remains with 20 €, so that the Ecostrom Act is also a burden acceptable to the weakest of our society. The cover for industry and thus also for jobs has been greatly improved. One of the very large players in Upper Austria pays only a quarter for the eco electricity. I think this is also very necessary if you consider what Gerin-Swarovski told us when visiting Tyrol in Schwaz that in the industry an Austrian €40 000, a Czech €8 000 and a Chinese €2 000 in costs. Under these conditions, the Austrian industry is doing great things in export, I think, and that is why it is justified that we are making location policy here. However, I would also have liked this effort for SMEs. The electricity price only has to do with the eco electricity law. The large price shocks come from the energy shortage and not least naturally from the energy transition. I think that here too the fact that we have saved the nets in the last 20 years is that we have weakened the networks with Unbundling. In Germany alone, the 5 000 kilometres of high-performance networks are needed for the energy transition. In Austria – our networks are better thanks to God – Limberg III, for example, fails on the networks. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign]] I think that at the ElWOG we have created conditions for us to move on massively. The law is positive. We'll cut off the queues. A well-filled pot with 11.5 million € will ensure that all those who have already invested come to their promotions. I think we also save a lot of bureaucracy in the administration of this law. I would like to thank you, Mr Minister, for your commitment, which you have also done in the course of renewable energy and for the eco-social market economy in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e9904	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Höbart. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e9927	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. The virtues in particular of the ÖVP empire toward its own ministers almost take on odd dimensions. Otherwise, one obviously no longer knows how to help, because the retention of the population is, of course, constantly getting smaller. I also find it quite exciting that just from the BZÖ – I say, just like the rabbit in front of the snake – our dear Norbert Hofer is homaged to our dear Norbert Hofer, some of whom obviously know how our Norbert Hofer thinks he feels. I'm proud of the fact that we have a politician like Norbert Hofer in our ranks, I'm saying that with fug and right. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] We have also admitted that the negotiations have gone very well. There are certainly also some very interesting points inside. [[Abg. May. Kogler: If anyone can do something, you let him go!]] But I have to say quite clearly: Why does the FPÖ not agree with this novel? – This has a simple Background: Because we do not allow this eco electricity law novelle to be financed on the back of households, the normal households, and the small and medium-sized enterprises! I would like to say that clearly once again. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The small and medium-sized enterprises are the economic backbone, and these are over-averagely burdened. You can't talk this away. When Herbert Scheibnerhier speaks of Löppische 2, 3, 4, 5 € a month – listen to me well, Stefan Petzner! –, this, of course, sums up accordingly to the year. [[Abg. Petzner: You gave the ORF 160 million € money!]] It sums up, we speak here of 50, 60, 70 € additional costs per year. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: That's a joke!]] [[Abg. Petzner: You gave the ORF 160 million € money, and now you're talking big!]] Everyone knows that local taxes are also increasing steadily: water taxes, canal charges, water supply charges, waste management charges. At the end of the day, more taxes come out of several hundred euros per household, and everyone marvels that people are going to be in groups of the Freedom Party, because we do not allow that! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Of course, we are also consistent in our line. We reject further Greece's aid. This is not directly related to this novel, it is clear to me, but we say quite consciously: “Our money for our Leut”! There we are and we remain consistent. [[Abg. Petzner: What about the ORF 160 million? Are you saying something about that?]] [[Further calls.]] We have tried – and this is what Norbert Hofer rightly mentioned – to enforce in negotiations, in recent negotiations discharges in the field of income and wage taxation in order to achieve at least partial compensation. Unfortunately, these proposals have not been taken into account. It was a constructive, good proposal from the FPÖ that it was compensated so to speak; unfortunately, this was not taken into account. I also insist – as Alois Grazauer also announced here – that, so far, all energy taxes and taxes have fulfilled the completely wrong purpose, namely to stop any budget holes. I just need to think about the mineral oil tax. There will be €400.500 million more, but none of this will happen to businesses in the end customer, consumers, households and businesses. We also often had the impression that these new laws had to be brought to a rapid conclusion on the EU's side. That means that sometimes we were not aware of how serious one is actually doing in this matter. At the end of the day – and I say it again – we say No to this novel – not because not some content might be quite interesting and content worthy of discussion, but because we simply do not want to further burden the already heavily burdened companies and the heavily burdened households.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e10069	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e10091	Mr President. Federal Minister! Yes, a huge step in the right direction! What are the direction decisions? – This is almost embarrassingly small-scale, which has just been presented here. Of course, in the long term – but always one takes a first step – the exit from the fossil and the atomic age into the solar age! Since all of this does not work by itself in a self-organized market economy, there or there, political conditions, laws, promotions or support systems need to be implemented, or accelerated, in order to bring it on the way. It's just about speeding up things. One thing is clear: In a few years probably – faster than you believe – it is exactly the opposite. We should then be glad that these steps have been taken, since the fossil energy sources are already becoming much, much more expensive from the market – how should it be different! – and the other renewable energy sources, if not absolutely cheaper – perhaps they will be relatively cheaper with technology development, especially in the photovoltaic field – then – and that is enough – measured on fossil energy sources. We then did several things in the positive: First: Energy dependence is going back. Secondly, The costs we have to pay for these imports – gas imports, oil imports – are immense. This is about billions for the economy in Austria, billions a year. Everything that pushes back is useful! In this respect, all these invoices are still wrong, because economics could even be given much more support if they were to be useful. But that is a compromise and, as I said, a huge step in the right direction. You have to see this cost shear, this future development! [[towards FPÖ]] Just the little people you're supposed to defend are getting out of this story the worst. The sooner we get here, the faster Austria becomes independent, the cheaper it will be in a few years. You have to look at this: If the figures that have been presented here – I refer to the figures of the ÖVP speaker so that we don't have a discourse here now, we had one recently – vote, then it's just 1 € per month and budget! Ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ! Because of 1 € per household we will not make social policy if this is an energy policy-economic re-control. We must make social policy where it belongs, namely in the social policy field and in the tax field, of course! [[Congratulation with greens, SPÖ and BZÖ.]] Otherwise, we'll never get there. But it corresponds to your little-spirited populism, even there still to find hair in the soup, where there really would be no to find. But, well, that's not what you're supposed to be. [[Congratulation with Greens and BZÖ.]] But at the end of the day I'm talking about something else. I think the Greens have once again proved that I have to contradict you, Mr Haubner; what is the point of a blockade policy that would have been abandoned here? – that they are working on implementation in a real political place where they have a possibility, also and immediately and as well as always. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] This is not about blockade, it is about speeding up the objectives that are being pursued and improving the measures that are being taken, speeding up, speeding up – just as it was here! [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] The individual successes from the first draft to the present day can be proved and verified. That is why we accept these challenges each time; it was not the first time either. We had this in the OECD directives. We have increased the powers of the Court of Auditors in a way that has never been the case in the Second Republic. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign again]] And we have taken a big step in this eco electricity law. In conclusion, Mr President, for the future: With the next big two-thirds of the matter, when it comes to the new European stability mechanisms – that is a little stronger, that is clear to me – we will again use our majority to ensure that something comes out and not always all is presented as an alternative, as is the case with the Minister for Finance. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign]] There too we will be successful.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e10188	Next speaker: Mr Huber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e10209	Mr President. Federal Minister! This ecostrom law was a heavy birth. But the father of this beautiful child is clearly the BZÖ! [[Lively ironic hustle and bustle.]] [[BZÖ's condolences.]] It has come so far only because of our demands and because of our negotiations. [[Calls and calls between representatives of FPÖ and Greens.]] The greens are very far off when you come to see that two years ago we called for the farmer to become an energy engineer. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek:... the women make birth all by themselves!]] With this law, we are finally getting a little closer to this step. Very short on the freedom of movement Party: You say 1 € per month the disaster is bad. It was you, this party, you gave 160 million € to the ORF! Explain this to your voters and your voters! [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] This eco electricity law is a step forward so that Austria can become energy self-sufficient. This is a step in the right direction, because the past banking and financial crisis was nothing against the energy crisis ahead of us! Here in Austria we have very much to pick up. For example, if we take the sun's current: In Germany it has been in the last ten years plus 100 percent; in Austria we have a mourning game, there we have a solar eclipse! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] In Austria, we have reduced the share of renewable energy in the last ten years by 5 percent to 69 percent. The Germans have increased this share from 4 to 17 percent in the last ten years. [[Call the Greens:Thanks to Red-Green!]] If we cannot finally oppose this eco electricity law now, it is in ten years so far that Germany has overtaken us. I think you have to see it very differently. Today, we Austrians have 6 to 7 percent nuclear power. If you're taking China: China has only 2% nuclear power. I believe that we really must do everything we can to ensure that we can provide the households with the energy that is non-atomic. The Freedom Party is unfortunately lobbyist of the Atom Lobby, which is very incomprehensible to me. On the one hand, giving the ORF 160 million € and showing up here for 1 € per month and voting against it is, I think, a very, very weak policy of yours! [[Interim calls at the FPÖ]] [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I believe that in the longer term, the message must be that our farmer becomes an energy engineer. No one here understands why the energy giants make billions of profits and the general population has nothing of it. There must be re-transmission. When you look at this: The BZÖ has concepts. The BZÖ is the only party with the concept of “Austria – energy self-sufficient”. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with FPÖ and greens.]] The Greens laugh; the Greens, who are on the road here as a pedaler, laugh! But our goal must be that the farmer will become an energy engineer, that there is a new career, that will create income for farmers, that it will create income and trigger investment. According to Dr. Kronberger, investments in agriculture amounting to € 2 billion a year would wash 400 million in VAT into the budget. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign]] This saves thousands of jobs, which secures the future of the Austrian site!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e10311	For the last round of speakers, there are almost 3 minutes per speech. Next speaker: Mrs Bayr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e10336	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that the eco electricity law we have is probably one of the laws that have taken one of the longest paths from the first draft to the version that we decide today. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: That's right!]] It is absolutely gratifying that the cover really went up massively, and that, although we do not massively burden our households. If an average household is 1,70 € per month, I think it is socially feasible. It is a law that really creates investment security for the plant operators and that it also manages to reduce the very large promotional backpack that we have gradually, much faster to reduce than originally planned. Of course, this eco electricity law is also a law that helps us to increase our share of renewable energy. There is more than that we need to do that, as we also have international commitments. But at the same time, it helps us to deal responsibly and for the future with our natural resources. It is a law that benefits the environment, and above all it is one that helps us to realize as quickly as possible the calculated exit from nuclear power imports. I believe that what is necessary – and there is also a corresponding resolution that has been tabled – are strong, tangible measures in the field of energy efficiency. I believe that we must work at two levels, on the one hand, at the European level, where the 20% objective of greater energy efficiency remains the only one of these climate change objectives, which is a voluntary and not a mandatory one. That is to say, as Minister of Economic Affairs, we have called for a motion for a resolution in Parliament to be very committed to the fact that these 20 percent will also be committed at European level. At the Austrian level, which is also part of the present resolution, we will adopt an energy efficiency law within the year. Energy efficiency, the saving of energy, the sensible, intelligent use of energy is, in my opinion, the largest potential power plant available to us. It's crazy not to use it! There is a proposal from the SPÖ for an energy efficiency law, and I am looking forward to implementing it. Only if we get under control this 2 percent energy increase we currently have every year will we be successful. I am also pleased with the broad agreement that exists today. I almost felt sorry for my colleague Hofer, who – we heard it – has been very constructive, but has been rebuffed by his party owner. [[Abg. Grain Duration: You don't need that!]] Quite clearly in a party in which it is only about making fundamental opposition to conceal any constructive solutions in principle! It is just that – I am sorry for you, Mr Hofer – that one cannot make better policy. For me personally, I would also like to say that this broad-based law is a very encouraging conclusion to my work as environmental spokesperson of the SPÖ. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign]] Mr Weninger will do this with great commitment in the future for the SPÖ. We all know that we have very, very much in front of us in terms of climate, species conservation, environment, water, everything possible. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign again.]] I would like to see solutions to environmental problems that are often so broad in this House, so continue! – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e10401	Next speaker: Mr Grillitsch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e10422	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! As one of those who has been intensively involved in the topic of renewable energy sources more than 20 years ago and who has built one of the first biomass heating plants in St. Peter's or Jüdenburg, I am looking forward to this day – with a wormhead drop: that these are not five parties that today set a foundation for Austria's being on the road towards a nuclear-free Austria, an energy-autarchic Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: You're not that old yet!]] I am really sorry, Mr Hofer – my pity is on your side – that you have not enforced yourself in your club. They are competent; a pity you are not there. It would have been a good signal for this Parliament to signal future security to Austria today. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We have a number of renewable energy sources – biomass that literally comes in at the window, wind, photovoltaics, hydropower in particular – and therefore the law for these new technologies is an ecologically sustainable, economically viable and socially balanced one. Financing is budget-neutral. A cover of 20 € was provided for the weak of income. That's good and that's important. The increase in the funding volume to €111.5 million means a reduction of the long queue. That too is very positive. To increase the annual grant quota from € 21 million to € 50 million is simply great. Thank you for that! This may in particular help our biogas operators, who are also here today, to compensate for the discrepancy between raw material costs and electricity prices accordingly. That is also important. This law gives the so necessary investment security that does not want to deal with concepts of the past, but rather with entrepreneurship, with risk and ultimately with innovativeness, try to create work in Austria, in the regions with new technologies, through CO2-neutral energy generation against climate change, and ultimately also to maintain purchasing power in the country, to maintain value added in the country, not to cause a drop in purchasing power in Arab countries or to Russia and its neighbouring countries. That's important. That's necessary. Minister! That's a good law, and I say this eco electricity law makes no debt to our children.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e10465	Next speaker: Mr Dipl.-Ing. Deimek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e10486	Mr President. Gentlemen on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen here and at home on the televisions! [[Abg. Amon: “Why do we agree”!]] [[Abg. Dr Bartenstein: “At least with three symbolic voices”!]] I should like to begin with a quote from my colleague Mr Seillinger: “Dear price drivers!” – That shows exactly what it really is about today. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: This is a embarrassing excuse!]] It was a rather reasonable approach, which was then at the last stage, one would like to say, short of failure. Even if the Greens are once again in between, especially Mrs Glavischnig – on their statements I come to speak later. Mrs. Glavischnig! For us, market and economic proximity is important – instead of excessive eco-actionism. This is your territory. We are more at home with the market and the economy. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There are also – and this is, please, so far so said by everyone – good approaches to renewable energy, especially in wind power and photovoltaics. To biogas operators: I do not quite think that this is enough with the 4 cents, as the Minister has said. When the peasantry says that everything is great, I say as a technician to the peasantry: You still take up the laws of physics! A brief quote; then a gentleman writes: Mr Klubobmann-Deputy Hofer! Dear Norbert! I would be very grateful if you or a colleague of your party in today's debate on the Ecostrom Act would point out that the decision making of this law will mean that many biogas plants will fail. This law also prevents the technical progress of plant founders. This is also a serious blow against the interests of those plants that build biogas plants and will not build new plants. This legislative decision also seriously impedes the technology leadership of Austrian companies. With friendly greetings, economist Franz Blochberger, Managing Director. - Quote. This is your husband, a former ÖVP councillor. Your people tell you what you really do. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] However, let us continue: What is it really about? Why was it really fair to negotiate, dear Norbert? – That it is an incentive promotion and that it is degressive. That is the positive, Mr Federal Minister. In reality, it is about getting away from any permanent promotions and that the installations, each of them for themselves, are competitive. This also really shows the government of some parties or such parties, which are at the end, in the last hours, when a decision has come, and take part in it, such as the Greens or the BZÖ. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Talk time!]] When it comes to who has to pay the whole thing, it's quite clear. It has often been said “together ” today. 65 percent pay the farms and 35 percent pay the households. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign again.]] The households will be bleeding, and against this we will resist. That's the most important thing on this day. We'll all be bleeding! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e10592	Next speaker: Mrs. Dr. Lichtenecker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e10614	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! It's a very happy day today. The Ecostrom Act bears a clear green handwriting, thanks to the good negotiations conducted by our energy spokesman Christiane Brunner. Thank you very much! This eco electricity law will accelerate the pace of the energy transition, and we need that very urgently. We need it very urgently to ensure independence in energy supply and, of course, to reduce the prices of energy supply in the medium term. Mr Deimek, you are entirely on the wood road. It is precisely this step today that will also reduce prices for households and businesses in the medium term, and above all make an important contribution to climate protection and, of course, create and secure jobs in Austria. That is exactly what this proposal will ensure in this form. That is the right step today. The constructive negotiations have helped to ensure that this has happened in this form. This is also a clear signal: If greens sit at the negotiating table when greens negotiate when greens run along, then a little further in the right direction, in the future. [[Abg. Dr. Bartenstein: No, no! The Greens don't rule with you!]] That's exactly what you see in Upper Austria, where Rudi Anschober is responsible as the Energy Land Council. There, final energy consumption has fallen, where 86 percent of electricity consumption is already covered by renewable energies. And above all, we also have more than 160 companies that work very successfully in this area. If we look at the Austrian statistics, then Upper Austria is the federal state with most green jobs, namely already 36 000. This is the right way to mark the future: green and sunny. This eco electricity law also means a clear progress for photovoltaics, and that is good, because that is ultimately the free energy at the doorstep. Overall, it is a step on a path that needs to be continued. The next major challenge is energy efficiency. That is where we in Austria need a great deal of action. This will be a subject on which we will consistently put forward our proposals in order to be successful and helpful too.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e10650	Next speaker: Member of the list. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e10672	High house! The ÖVP is in the dilemma. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: You have to take your plug now!]] In the Styrian ÖVP, it wants it. That's where it wants tremendous. The Styrian ÖVP is dissatisfied, therefore difficult are also the accusations of their clubman Christopher Drexler in the Landtag, which he recently made in an interview. I quote: The performance of the ÖVP is disastrous, even in the energy policy at the federal level. There is no determination to lead Austria. The ÖVP persists in political vacuum. - Quote. These, ladies and gentlemen, are heavy guns aimed at the Federation from the Styria. The Landeshaupt-Representative Schützenhofer also calls for an independent path of ÖVP Styria. Under the Ökostrom Act, all Styrian representatives of the ÖVP now have the opportunity to take the announced new, independent path. We from the BZÖ have tabled a motion for a resolution on this subject. This request has already been adopted unanimously in the Graz municipal council, including with the votes of the ÖVP. [[Abg. Grill: The text is already old!]] In essence, we see renewable energies as the only alternative to nuclear energy. Their potential is sufficient to avoid both nuclear energy and fossil energy use in the future. Therefore, the application from the municipal council of Graz is word-identifiably: The signed members of the BZÖ represent the esteemed ladies and gentlemen! [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: This is not German! It belongs to “up ” instead of“ in ”!]] Support Let me ask you this question. Especially addressed to the Styrian ÖVP delegates: Take advantage of this unique opportunity, go the Styrian way to the Ecostrom Act! The immediate exit from nuclear energy must be our goal. Separate from your atomic lobbyists!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e10747	The motion for a resolution tabled is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e10808	Next speaker: Mr Neubauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e10830	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mrs Hakel von der SPÖ, on the clarification: Mr. Landesrat Kurzmann in Styria does not prevent anything. Turn to your Social Democratic Council of State Stepwise. This prevents the project that you have addressed. - That's just for clarification. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[President Dr. Graf takes over the chairmanship.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! A few days ago, Minister Mitterlehner, Hundstorfer and Berlakovich reached an e-mail. In this e-mail, the Federal Government is asked to meet the following concerns in the Eco electricity Act, namely to no longer limit the expansion of the individual renewable energy sources by capping and thereby to stop slowing down the energy transition. A second requirement, which is contained therein, is to ensure the sustainable provision of sufficient budget resources beyond the green electricity contributions, so that bottlenecks can be excluded in the development of renewable energy and in the implementation of the energy transition. If the division of Mr Kogler goes on, these demands would only be small-spirit populism. However, this letter is notable from the Green Councillor Rudi Anschober, ladies and gentlemen, who seem to have written down these demands, my very dear Greens. It is thus the “small-spirited populist Anschober” who demands this as the State Council of Upper Austria. You'll have to explain that to him. We will explain to him your voting behaviour in any case. One more thing: If Mr Landesrat turns on an advertisement that costs €50,000 to taxpayers, and thus wants to explain to the people that he has managed to shut down eight nuclear power plants in Germany, then the small-spirit populism, ladies and gentlemen, is! [[the speaker shall keep a document up to date]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Moser: He doesn't write that at all!]] No one really believes that the little Mr. Anschober, who has not even had the back cover in his own party, would have been able to stop eight nuclear power plants. Mr Widmann, you made a press release a week ago, in which you said the following – I quote –: In Austria, there is a ‘storage of energy policy’. “In Austria, energy policy is too “not ambitious. There are no clear objectives, responsibilities, evaluations and controls." And: “The eco-current lid must be gone,...” – quote. Mr Widmann, you're the biggest crasher here in this house! You're the biggest crasher! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Widmann: That's why we negotiated even further!]] You also fall in the back of your clubman Booker, who has still demanded: 14 percent more taxes should be paid to households. In the release of Seppi Bucher says that he accuses the FPÖ, we would tax the households by the first novel. And now you agree, although this means 21 € per household and 400 € per SME?- Oh, my God! You really have to be ashamed of that! This crasher by 180 degrees will not be able to explain this to the Austrians from Burgenland to Vorarlberg anywhere.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e10923	The next speaker was Mr Glaser. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e10944	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) [[Calls and countercalls between representatives of FPÖ and BZÖ.]] – Perhaps the contrasts that once worked together can calm down again. Summary: If we are today adopting an eco-energy law, an eco-power law in this dimension, then it certainly has to do with the fact that the disaster of Fukushima has wakened us all. It is true that now, thanks to other countries, the example of Austria is to stop using nuclear energy. Switzerland and Germany are already getting out or getting out, Italy will follow. This is just a good result of a disaster. In this context, like the BZÖ's motion for a resolution concerning the exit from nuclear energy, the Federal Government should be even more committed. To this end, it can be noted that the Federal Government has already used massively for the exit from nuclear energy in recent years, as well as in other countries. You can also exaggerate it as required by the BZÖ. Everything's not going. We cannot accept this request, since we have already done a lot of things. We will, however, agree to your request for the online provider change. With the Ecocurrent Act, the following are particularly relevant: We rely on many small regional energy providers, we rely on security of supply, we rely on broad value added and we rely on jobs in the region, and that is something completely essential. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Something else has become increasingly clear to us: The energy sector and how we shape it will shape our future in a massive way. I therefore believe that we are It is all aware that we will have to change our lifestyle as well. Above all, however, we will certainly have to save energy, use energy efficiently. That is why the Federal Minister Mitterlehner's plan to submit an energy efficiency law is also a very essential one. I hope that Niki Berlakovich's Climate Change Act, which will take other areas such as transport in particular, will also be implemented as soon as possible. In conclusion: We all have to see a great economic opportunity in the Eco electricity Act, because if we invest more in this area, build more plants, we also have a dynamic technological development to expect. This, in turn, opens up opportunities in the economic parquet, on the market. To conclude: With this decision-making, we will put in place a large mosaic stone in order to be able to implement and even over-fulfil the energy strategy of the Federal Government by 2020, carried out by the ministers Mitterlehner and Niki Berlakovich. In this sense, a warm thanks to all those who today agree to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e11004	Mr Mitterlehner is speaking on behalf of the Federal Minister. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e11026	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to speak briefly at the end of the debate, because I have noticed a few things that I would like to repeat briefly. First: Energy efficiency was just mentioned by the previous speaker. When you read the Energy Strategy, note that the relation of renewable energy and energy efficiency has been set in relation to 3 : 1 in favour of energy efficiency. It will therefore be even more important in the near future to deal with this issue accordingly. I hope for support as well as today. In this context, I would also like to remind the FPÖ that the argument that you cannot vote for has already been somewhat indifferent. Why? – Why do we have a promotion at Ecostrom? Because we do not yet have market prices there, but want to go in a certain direction to become nuclear power-free and simply develop the technology necessary for that. Now is the question of who pays it if it costs more than the market price. They say: If so, that's what taxpayers have to pay. Similarly, Mr Neubauer also quoted Rudi Anschober. The only problem is that EU law is not allowed, which would be direct aid. A country has done this, namely Spain. They have done so for budgetary reasons. A second question therefore arises: If that doesn't work, who pays the costs and who is it worth that we're nuclear-free? We interviewed consumers with a relatively large number of interviews, around 1,500 people. Nearly 90 percent believe that it is also worth the sum that we have now set aside to be nuclear-free. [[Abg. Petzner: New builder, listen!]] You claim that you represent the voters. However, the voters are quite able to see the whole subject so differentiated that they do not throw it into a boat in the argumentation with Greece or otherwise. I would ask you to take this into account for the vote. Thirdly, and finally: You know the advertising of Ricola. “Who invented it?” – That’s what many have invented. But, Mr Huber, I would really ask you: Do not engage in paternity dispute on this matter! Identification You're the Roman proverb: “Mater semper certa est, Father semper incertus est”? [[Abg. Head: Can you translate it for him?]] An actor of Austrian descent is also thinking about this. So consider that, please, before you express yourself, and let us know what we have developed!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e11094	No one is reporting on this. I therefore conclude the debate. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law in 1223. Hiezu have Members Peter Haubner, Katzian, Mag. Brunner, Mag. Widmann, ladies and gentlemen, an additional and/or Amendment tabled. As the present draft law and the said additional and/or Amendment tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 2 C 1 of the Rules of Procedure, the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. As only the above-mentioned add-on or add-on respectively. Amendment tabled by Mr Peter Haubner, Mr Katzian, Mr Mag. Brunner, Mag. Widmann, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to refer to the draft law and to the title and receipt in the version of the Government template, taking into account this supplementary and amending legislation. To vote on amendments. I now ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this bill to give a positive signal. – This is accepted by the majority. I expressly note the two-thirds majority required by constitution. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – This too is largely accepted. In turn, I expressly define the two-thirds majority required for constitutional purposes. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[Congratulations with SPÖ, ÖVP, BZÖ and Greens.]] We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Peter Haubner, Mr Katzian, and others on the contribution of energy efficiency to the sustainable energy future of Austria. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who are in favour of this motion for a resolution, are a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 182.) We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Widmann, ladies and gentlemen, on the submission of a draft law to facilitate the online change of the energy supplier. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This too is unanimously adopted. (E 183.) We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ing. President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Grosz, colleagues and colleagues on the implementation of separate initiatives by ÖVP Styria – Part I. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. [[13:14:34]] 3rd. Point Report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on the Government Template (1224, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the Federal Law on the Transparency of Prices for Oil, Mineral Oil Products, Gas, Electricity and Medicines, and the Price Clearance Act (1301 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e11234	We'll get to 3. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Steindl spoke. Fixed speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e11262	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Less exciting is the price transparency law that we presented here to the Federal Minister. This was necessary since recently, at the gas stations, especially at the company's own gas stations, a peculiar business practice has developed: Prices were changed several times a day at the gas stations – and this, of course, prevented consumers from making effective price fixings or choosing cheaper gas stations. That is why Mr Mitterlehner, Minister of State, adopted a regulation in a first step which allows these prices to be changed only once a day. But that's not enough either. It has therefore submitted a government template which should authorise it to make a regulation that any price currently fixed at the gas stations must be electronically notified to the E-Control. So this will bring much more transparency to consumers in the future, and I am convinced that this will also make it possible to achieve a better price stability overall. I believe that even if one can involve the car clubs for the appropriate route choice, consumers will have the opportunity to find out the cheapest fuel prices along a route. However, it is necessary, in the sense of conformity with competition, to limit this transparency or this overall question. Therefore, for the consumer as well as for the driver clubs, the cheapest gas stations are listed only in the local areas surveyed. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That is why, as I believe, it is a good measure to maintain greater transparency and stability in the field of fuel prices. In conclusion: I think it would be a rethinking to redefine the competition rules both at European and national level, because if a market share of 30 percent is a dominant position, then it will be the same as it is: The concentrations will continue. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e11310	The next speaker was Mr Dr. Matznetter. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e11331	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! We are dealing with the development of fuel prices during the year. Let's admit it honestly: In view of what is happening on world markets, Austria's ability to intervene will be rather small. But also there we see that there are, in truth, speculative elements that are not in the corresponding coverage context with supply and demand. The International Energy Agency has tried to counteract this, but they have other measures. But we're doing our homework here in the country. I would remind you that by a large majority we have dealt with the issue of price adjustment. Indeed, prices were increased in an hourly period. The consumer believes he tankes at €1.19, travels – and then suddenly stands €1.25 there. That is why we decided: A gas station may only increase prices once a day. On the proposal that a gas station operator should be allowed to change prices only once a day, we said: We won't be able to forbid him if he gets cheaper. We all followed this – of course with the following effect: With well-planned fuel price developments, one sets a certain value and then gently sinks in several things; and surprisingly then before the weekend or where the consumer has few alternatives, the decline is not so strong. Now we are taking the next step, that which has helped best so far, namely transparency over prices. So far, the automobile clubs have tried to give an indication by means of surveys to the individual tanker. Now we give him the opportunity to access data collected by all the gas stations in the country. And: We are putting the data into the hands of the marketists, namely for real competition, the data material, so that they can see whether all of this is in accordance with the rules on price agreements and cartels. We meet both objectives with this law. At the beginning we had a little discussion about the question – which we solved –: What about the five cheapest ones? Someone on the West Railway says: I'm gonna have to drink in the next 200 miles, where should I drink?, this wouldn't have helped. He'd always got gas stations off the highway. Now he can enter the route and say: The cheapest is there. We hope that the competition, because it is visible and more watered there, will reduce prices. Secondly, The e-control will be able to look closely at the development and it will be the task of the e-control: If it is found that prices are not aimed at supply and demand on the market, they will be applied in a reasonable manner to a higher price, in which synchability and The same will happen; then it will be the responsibility of the authorities, including with the involvement of the Federal Competition Authority, to propose a bar. In order to ensure that the necessary official parties are aware of this, it is provided that consumer protectionists also receive the data quarterly. They can evaluate them, even the AK can then evaluate them. We hope that such manipulations, when they are there, will become known accordingly. The fact that we receive a bit less income from the OMV as a federal government is what we buy because we have the hope that tanking in Austria will remain favourable in the international benchmark. [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Mitterlehner]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e11395	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Deimek's word. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e11416	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In this debate, one could say: If we had a free market, we would not need to discuss this today. I support the whole thing with a quote from Mr Ruttenstorfer from the OMV: In Austria there is price transparency, and it is precisely because the prices are on the signs. - Quote. So much for the cynicism of the OMV. That shows quite exactly: We do not have a functioning free fuel market in Austria, which is the real problem. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Tadler.]] Today, when we look at the quoted motorways and the village 200 meters away – why is the tanking in the village much cheaper than on the motorway? – then I have often heard from the ministry that this is just a question of supply and demand. – No, it’s not about supply and demand, but about the fact that a well-functioning oligopolis prevents us from having a cheaper offer on the motorways. That's exactly what it's all about: There's no competition for prizes. And why doesn't a prize fight take place? – Because in Austria we have the so-called Big Three, the big three, namely OMV, Shell and BP. In Austria, the fuel comes from the refinery of the OMV, which supplies to Shell and BP. In Germany it works the other way around: There are the great refineries of Shell, partly also of BP, and the OMV is the customer and naturally adheres to all price agreements – just as the others in Austria follow all price agreements. The Federal Minister would actually have something like the regulatory framework of the state. He could have done something so far. But so far, he hasn't done anything. This is a point we are criticizing. Now, obviously, there is a step in – a first step, however – with this database. This will now cost a decent rod money at the e-control. It will also cost a decent banker money to the relevant bodies that have to provide the data. That they are excited about it, especially where they do not belong to the big three chains, is quite clear – but please, that is all regulated. Mr Federal Minister, to the law on and for himself – we have already told you in committee –: They have a lead of confidence from us, in that we now want to look at ourselves for some time: Does this database function as such? Does the login function? And above all: Does what we want from it as consumers function, namely regular reports from it, so that, as a consumer, one can ask the cheapest provider, especially in a certain local area, for example on a route? And above all: Does the observation of the prices that the consumer does not see, but which are very probably included in the database? And on top of that: Will you, Mr Federal Minister, then respond to it in any form? The fact that we now have an oligopolis is obvious. We wish you would respond to it if that becomes obvious. Otherwise, we would have to ask ourselves why you are doing the wall to them, and whether you might see that then, like your colleague Schüssel, you only get a supervisory post at an oil lobby. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e11479	The next speaker was Mrs Lichtenecker. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e11501	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear ladies and gentlemen at the gallery! This draft law will be approved by us. We think it's a contribution to price transparency in the fuel market. However, in general, when we are in the fuel sector, it is about putting in place the right incentives for future capacity – in fuel, diesel – in order to implement appropriate savings measures. I would like to quote briefly from an opinion of the Austrian Chamber of Commerce. The Austrian Chamber of Commerce notes that consumers would otherwise have to react to rising fuel prices – and the WKO cites the purchase behaviour of consumers from 1st century onwards. January 2011, four months, until April 2011, and it is noted that there are massive increases in the “sprit-eating tax classes” – under quotation marks. I quote from the opinion: the upper class with 40.2 percent in the registration statistics, the Vans 31.5 percent, the SUVs and off-road vehicles 31.2 percent, the luxury class 22.5 percent. And so to speak, in Comparative: In the case of city and small cars, there is just a plus of 0.1 percent of new registration statistics. This is a consumer decision. Of course, the incentives to do so must also be used from the outside to promote intelligent mobility and climate protection. I believe that there is now a first important step towards this, Mr Minister, and that is the issue of eco-social tax reform, which is long overdue. There are several major points that are constantly being complained by experts regarding the Austrian tax system. One is the very high labour costs, the other is the low income from environmental taxes and also the low income tax. I come back to the first two, namely high labour costs and low environmental taxes: There, of course, an eco-social tax reform is the right starting point. This means that one has a multiple-divided: Saving resources, protecting the environment, protecting the climate and, of course, creating jobs due to lower labour costs. This means total saving costs, and would also have a great advantage for drivers, because: More sprit-saving models, intelligent mobility, public transport and intelligent transport links would, of course, also reduce mobility costs for road users. This is one of the next steps that must be taken – although the Minister of Finance always says that tax reforms are not time, no place. But in the overall context of future capacity, climate protection and the economy in Austria, it is an important and correct step to finally implement an eco-social tax reform!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e11555	The next speaker was Mr Mag. Widmann speaking. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e11576	Mr President. High house! The present price transparency law is an idea that is generally supportive because it serves to ensure that gas station operators report the prices of the e-control and then feed them into the database. It will be interesting to see how far this instrument will actually prove to the extent to which the regulation is suitable to actually stimulate competition, how practical the whole is for drivers: When you drive away, do you have to look into the Internet in advance to see where the cheapest price is, or is that even easier? That is why we will have to support this in principle, but we think that the steps are very gentle, very small, far too little are enough to enable the population to also offer low-end fuel prices. I see it a little more differentiated than the colleague Lichtenecker. Certainly, public transport is good, we need to expand it, absolutely right, but it must also be ensured that in rural areas the population can also reach to public transport and that the commuters, who are often socially weak, find corresponding fuel prices that are palatable – or support them accordingly. We therefore believe that, on the one hand, initiatives will have to be launched at European level in order to stop the speculators. I recall a “Kurier” article of 25. June: ‘Oil price down, spray price up.’ Always before the weekend, the spray price “at random” goes up, and more is required at the gas stations. – This is totally unacceptable, and I think that the EU also has to fulfil certain homeworks, but it is ultimately also about homework that we can do here in the country, if the government only wants to do it. There is a request from the BZÖ concerning the price reduction programme. There are many proposals within them that are feasible and feasible, such as the reduction of the tax on mineral oil to the extent prior to the increase in 2011 or the opening of federal gas stations, of land gas stations that could be stimulated, or the introduction of the Luxembourg model with a market-oriented maximum price scheme, similar to the Rotterdam stock exchange prices. It is also to be considered whether the system of the pendler's fee, which essentially brings little to social weakness, could better bring a lot of earners to new feet. And as far as gas station transparency is concerned, this should be designed in such a way that gas station prices can only be reduced from 9 a.m. and not only from 12 p.m. It would also be more useful to make it easier for the award of prices by rowing the spray price varieties at all fuel stations – that would be a concrete proposal – and leaving the third point behind because they only cause confusion. This means that measures are possible and feasible, measures that can be taken. Our request has been in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs since March of this year, and I hope that good and successful discussions will be concluded in autumn. In addition to this competitive idea in the form of this transparency database, it is also necessary to put in place very concrete measures that relieve the counterparts, reduce speculation and thus also lead to fair spray prices. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e11632	Next speaker: Mr Kirchgatterer. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e11653	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mobility is part of the lives of people. For Austria, of course, public transport, the railway, the subway, the tram, the bus are very important, but in the rural regions mobility is not possible without a car, it is not possible to reach the workplace without a car, it is also not possible to be really mobile. Therefore, petrol prices, diesel prices play a major role for people. But mobility is of course also a prerequisite for the economy, and part of the calculation as well as for people a part of the purchasing power. For diesel and super prices, I would like to compare average prices in Austria and neighbouring countries. ==References====External links== June. The price in Austria was 1,31 € and 1,29 €, in Hungary at 1.38 and 1.35 €, in the Czech Republic at 1.46 and 1.43, in Slovakia at 1.47 and 1.35, in Switzerland at 1.34 and 1.42, in Italy at 1.53 and 1.41, in Germany at 1.54 and 1.39 and in France at 1,60 and 1.36. This shows that in the neighbouring countries prices are even higher, in Austria they are lower, but in no way satisfactory. That is why this government proposal is very important. This will have a cost-effective effect, there will be more competition, and of course there will also be price reductions. The interest groups, namely the automobile clubs, which will focus their attention very closely on the prices, see in this law a real breakthrough in favour of fuel customers. Ladies and gentlemen! A draft law will be presented here in plenary tomorrow with the presentation of the Financial Committee, and I assume that it will also be decided, which is of utmost importance and importance for Austrian assembly workers. I would particularly like to point out the very good international reputation of the Austrian assembly industry, the Austrian plant construction industry. Our businesses are active throughout Europe, indeed worldwide on all continents. The tomorrow decision will ensure that the high quality of Austrian skilled workers, skills, knowledge, reliability, the willingness to use Austrian skilled workers remains sustainable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e11698	Next speaker: Mr Riepl. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e11720	Mr President. High house! Federal Minister! In the Oesterreichs Energie report I find a picture of you, but also a sentence that is important. [[towards Federal Minister Dr. Mitterlehner]] I want to start with this – and that is: In the sense of a functioning competition, I also have to pay attention to the satisfaction of the customers as Minister. - Quote. This applies to the electricity price, but I also believe that this proposal – which is now the proof of this – is for the spray price. Again, it is about not forgetting the customers and making a policy that is close to life. The drivers of course ask themselves: Where can I find the cheapest gas station? When should I drink in the morning or in the evening? We have already heard today, several times a day there are price changes, and this is increasingly not understood by people. The issue of the award of prices at the gas stations is also a matter. Once the diesel price is first at the top, once at the bottom. I'm just waiting for the diesel price to be mentioned sometime in the middle, so that the confusion gets even bigger. So all these questions can be seen on the verge of all this transparency. With today's decision, we are taking a step towards greater transparency. As has already been said, we are creating a price transparency database to improve the orientation of consumers and drivers. Comparability becomes easier. It is also important that the drivers know that there is this transparency database and that it can also be used. In this context, one should also make special efforts together in the direction that it comes so far in combination with the Navisystem manufacturers and with the automobile clubs that if you get into the car and turn up the Navi, you not only see where a gas station is, but that perhaps a flash is displayed, where a cheap gas station is. That would be a great thing. This should be technically possible; there are already appropriate attempts in this direction. Perhaps you can say something about it, Mr Federal Minister, when you speak. When listing this database, it is also important to point out that the cheapest gas stations are shown and not the most expensive, because they are uninteresting. Otherwise, it could happen that a cheaper gas station might still be aimed at a more expensive and also more expensive. We don't want to. I think that this is a very important indication to prevent a price adjustment going up during the day. I would particularly like to mention that the automobile clubs, especially the ARBÖ, but also the ÖAMTC, have already been very active in this field. Finally, I can express an opinion which I have repeatedly heard in the context of my constituency. Under the rule it is certainly welcomed what we are doing now, Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House, but that a price, a gasoline price, a diesel price is moving up and down several times a day, probably only very few people in the Republic. You have to say this again: It's not consumer-friendly that you always have to look where you can get the cheapest. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In the future, therefore, the tanking does not start with the opening of the tank cover, but with the selection of the gas station – and I hope that many will benefit from this option.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e11796	The next speaker is Mr Mitterlehner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e11817	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I refer exactly to what Mr Riepl has said, namely to the consumer. First of all, the consumer wants no uncertainty as to what is going on constantly, and of course the consumer also wants to see a price trend which is at least below average, if not even downwards in the European comparison. Now we have to define what the role of the State as a framework legislator is, and I believe that the State can only do what we want, namely to create and support competition as far as possible. We have had some starting points, which have then resulted in this “Sprit Prize Summit”, as that was called. In essence, this was nothing but an attempt to reconcile the interests of consumers with the possibilities of the industry without over-administratively demanding the industry. And I think with the Spritpreis database, we have actually found a very, very good way to match that. The first step was that we adopted the Spritpreisverordnung. Although it was challenged at the Constitutional Court, it was confirmed by it. Therefore, there is only an increase until noon noon, exactly noon noon and one single, otherwise only price reductions. This even brought us a positive quote in a discussion in the German Bundestag as well as many other positive messages. That's why I think we're on the right track. We have taken the very reasoning of the Constitutional Court that more information also gives rise to more competition than an example and as a basis for this regulation and for this law. On the question raised here, if otherwise we could intervene – I believe, Mr Deimek, you have said so – as regards price schemes: This can only be done if there is a different misinterpretation between the European average and the European average. However, we could not find that – we do price comparisons. Of course, the problem of official regulation still has a second background, which we have already discussed in the Committee. They also need to set a profit and then possibly have the development that prices are higher than lower, because the profit margins in the gas stations with a large network are relatively low. That's what we looked at very closely. Therefore: What we have here is, I think, the most cost-effective variant to achieve, above all, one: Information for consumers. Mr Riepl has also been encouraged to process this data. There are indications in Italy of the motorways where the most suitable gas station is located. I think it is still possible to link it electronically; there is quite another possibility. In this context, however, it is very likely that the racing clubs see it as an improvement that has come out more than the uncertain data that we have had so far. I was actually surprised that the whole thing was relatively easy to establish. The e-control has helped us very much; it has experience in terms of comparability and the collection of prices as a whole. When we look at this – as the cost situation has been addressed – we see that we have certain construction costs, but they do hold in the manageable framework of €60 000; we pay them as the Ministry of E-Control. Then we have running costs for the companies, which will go down however, of about € 350 000 a year; for 1 500 gas stations that really have to report and so to speak, about €330 000, and for 1,200 gas stations that will have a direct line, there will be only €20 000 one-time costs, now converted to maturity. It is one thing, I would say, that it is affordable, for the individual it is also viable, but it should be of benefit to the consumer. Therefore, many have suggested: Let's take a look at this! That's my attitude, too. I think it's all well prepared – and it should prove itself accordingly. It was a very emotionless discussion throughout the preparation, and I therefore hope that the whole thing will be so positive in its implementation. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e11882	Mr Tadler is speaking as the last speaker on this item on the agenda. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e11903	Mr President. High house! Federal Minister! High noon for our spray prices. From a veritable crisis to the next to the world economic crisis. Against this background, it is also time that Austria's drivers, especially the commuters, can really compare fuel prices. As we all know, the milk cows of the nation are always the drivers, and it has been shown in recent years that they must get deeper and deeper into the pockets. The prices, Mr. Minister, you know that, especially on weekends, before the holiday period, are raised especially now with us before the main travel period. Due to the not comprehensible fluctuations of individual operators or entire groups, it was often not easy for the end-user to really compare the prices. In Salzburg, we are in charge of discount service stations. This is especially pleased – Mr Minister, you know that too – our German neighbours. But how often a day were the prices changed? Individual national gas stations and discounters have grasped and recognized the spirit of time: The driver can drink cheaply and comprehensiblely here. This government template is intended to propose several price increases per day. In my opinion, it remains to be seen whether this law is being executed accordingly – I have read something about legisvakanz or the gas station owners – or whether it will come back to empty promises, Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e11945	No one is reporting on this. I therefore conclude the debate. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 1224 of the supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall immediately reach the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – That too is unanimous. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[13:46:37]] 4. Point Report of the Family Committee on the Government Template (1225, e.g._Other Organiser Agreement in accordance with Art. 15a B-VG on a modification of the agreement in accordance with Art. 15a B-VG on the introduction of half-day free and mandatory early support in institutional childcare facilities (1270 d.a.) 5. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 1591/A(E) by Mr Mag. Daniela Musiol, colleagues on ‘border crossing’ kindergarten visit in the compulsory kindergarten year (1271 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e12010	We now come to points 4 and 5 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mrs Gartelgruber is speaking. Fixed speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e12037	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear audience at the gallery! For the mandatory free kindergarten years 2011/2012 and 2012/2013, the Federal Government will provide €70 million each. This is actually to be welcomed in principle, but we should Also, funding beyond the year 2013 does not lose sight of, so that the costs will not then be reduced to the municipalities. Mr Minister, I look forward with great pleasure to the evaluation report of Statistics Austria, but I ask you to have an eye on the communities once again, so that they do not belong to the losers in the future and then bear the costs. The free visit to the kindergarten is a long-term freedom requirement, but what is now being presented does not go far enough. We would like children to be able to visit the kindergarten free of charge from the end of the third year of life. But what I say clearly is the obligation to visit the kindergarten. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I have already debated 17 December. On June 1, 2009, when we agreed to this Article 15a agreement, we criticised two key points. At that time I already questioned the obligation, since 94 percent of the five-year-olds already visited the kindergarten in 2007/2008. Even the reason why children from low-income families and children with migration backgrounds are under-represented in kindergartens has not proved true. Secondly, The assumption that only one year's kindergarten visit to the language and social support should be sufficient has also not proved true. Mr Integration State Secretary Kurz has raised my concerns and is now calling for another free-school year for the children. But I would now like to return to another area: When we speak of kindergarten as an educational institution, I also think that the kindergarten free rides for kindergarten children are also taken into account. Unfortunately, you have postponed our request in this regard in the Committee. However, I see this adjournment as an opportunity for us to find a really sensible solution in this regard together. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Finally, I would just like to say a few more words about Mr Musiol's request for a cross-border kindergarten visit: The request was probably made by the suggestion of the People's Procuratorate Report. If you look at this report, however, you can see that there are very similar agreements between countries in other countries. I think you were simply wrong in the address, because this request should have been made to the green city government in Vienna. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e12094	The next speaker was Mrs Steibl. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e12116	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! We are now dealing with the Government's proposal on the change or continuation of half-dayly free and mandatory early support in institutional childcare facilities. This Article 15a agreement continues to require countries to ensure a free half-day kindergarten visit for the last year before schooling. We know that it is important to also think about how we are going to deal with it in the future and how we can cope with the possible need for care in the future. age four. But this agreement has been valid since 2009, and, Mrs Colleague, it is valid until 2014 and beyond, because the funds have already been made available. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would also like to point out that up to now there have been €280 million only for this free kindergarten year – I am not talking about enlargement – so you have to see how much is invested in these important, necessary measures. Because this sometimes goes down, I would also like to point out, in this context, the €700 000 which are made available annually, through the Familien GmbH, for project-related childcare services. For example, this is also about day-mother projects or father-projects. In this context, I would also like to say that the Federal Minister has now presented a curriculum. As a result, there is also a seal of quality to ensure this project quality outside of institutional childcare, but also to identify it. I think that's a good way. As already mentioned, it is also negotiating the continuation and further expansion of care with a focus on children under three years of age in the countries. After a discussion has now been initiated by Federal Minister Heinisch-Hosek about the opening hours during the summer and Easter holidays – or during the school holidays in general – one has to say that the first matter is country, but secondly that this is important to countries and there are many countries and communities that already implement it. I would just like to point out the Kindergarten Bisamberg, which is always such a good example of my colleague Dolli Schittenhelm. He's opened all year round, and that's important. I think that if you say that maybe 14 days is closed, you have to think about it a lot, but we can't just order it on the part of the federal government. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would also like to talk about Mr Musiol's request for a cross-border kindergarten visit, which will be dealt with in this context. This is a problem that affects Lower Austria and Vienna and cannot be regulated by an Article 15a agreement. – That’s what it says in the application. However, the Lower Austrian government has said that it is examining cases, and it is indeed so – the state government’s statement – that there must be no more disadvantages for children when they cross-border into a kindergarten. These are all important measures to improve the compatibility of work and family. We know how important it is that there be places for care so that there is freedom of choice. In this context, I would also like to point out that in addition to the state, companies also have a central role to play in the compatibility of work and family life. As an example, I would like to mention that it is now in six federal states – partly in the 15th century. ==References====External links== Time – there is the “most women- and family-friendly business” competition, which is about exactly these measures. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] How does it look in the farms? Companies that are particularly distinguished and actually do good personnel policies and much more are asked in front of the curtain. As a result, there is also the opportunity to participate in the State Prize, and all of this under the auspices of our family minister Reinhold Mitterlehner. In this sense, I think that we are on the right track with this measure.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e12203	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Musiol. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e12232	Ladies and gentlemen! Minister! Mrs. Kitzmüller! I do not think we need to start parenting disputes here on the issues of the compulsory kindergarten year and what has already been called for. The Minister would then have the opportunity to give a whimsical answer. The fact is: For years, for decades, many experts have demanded that, in the area of recent years before school entry, a regulation concerning compulsory kindergarten including the necessary funding needs. These expert opinions have already joined the Greens years ago. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: We know what this is for experts!]] Fortunately – this is not always the case in the case of meaningful demands – the FPÖ and the government parties have also gone through this. [[New call for tender Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein]] Against this background, this is certainly an important measure that we have just introduced two years ago, but we Greens and I, as a family spokesperson of the Greens, have already referred to possible problems and construction sites, and precisely these problems have been confirmed. One concerns the question of one-year-oldness. At the time, we have already said that there are real deficits – and that is not only linguistic deficits and not only the linguistic deficits of children with migrant backgrounds; these linguistic deficits also have many other children; but there are also social, emotional deficits – it is not enough if one introduces only a year of compulsory kindergarten. That's what all the experts say, and that's what all the surveys show. That is why it is good that a clear demand has now been made at government level by the State Secretary for Integration. The fact that this demand is only half-hearted must also be mentioned here, because it only demands it for certain children, but it has no idea at all how these children should be selected – I say almost – to be screened out. And he starts again only at half-dayness, speaking of the fact that the kindergarten is regarded as an educational institution half-day and the other half of the day as having fun in the kindergarten. That's wrong! The kindergarten is an educational institution. There are even proposals from the Chamber of Workers – and I have already said this in the Family Committee – to simply rename the kindergarten into “children’s education institution”, “children’s education place”. Let's think about it, because it's still not sicked – neither in all the heads here in the house, nor in all the heads of the responsibilities, nor in the heads of those who discuss it every day! The kindergarten is an educational institution, and if the kindergarten is an educational institution, it deserves the best quality standards, the best equipment and the best conditions. This means the best possible opportunity for all children to get a place, not only when you are obliged to do so at the age of five – and then there is a place that is under three years old, because there are not enough places there. This also means finding the best framework conditions: right group sizes, trained educators, educators who are not on the edge of the burnout because the requirements that are placed on them are inhuman, because they do not receive sufficient payment. All of this is important, and we are committed to it. Another construction site that we pointed out – and we also discussed how to remove this site earlier, but even now it has not been removed – is the question of children with disabilities. There is an exception in the agreement: If it is not reasonable for the children, then they are excluded from this obligation, although they too stand a year before they enter school. But this does not lead – as it would be logical and comprehensible – to the fact that only the children who really cannot pay for a kindergarten visit for health reasons – I am thinking of children who are bound to bed due to their illness – but that also concerns children in many regions because there are no places because there are no special educational facilities and because there is no care staff. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein]] Against this background, I have prepared a motion for a resolution which I shall be tabling. Mr Minister, if you then turn back from the committee on a cross-border kindergarten visit or also on the quality standards that we have requested for Article 15a agreements – so take your name very seriously here – and say that you are not responsible, then education policy is negligent and shortsighted. We're in Austria. In Austria, the same condition must apply to all children – no matter what postal code they have – and there is the task of the Federal Government or the Federal Legislator to ensure uniformity. If there are problems between two federal states – and we can now engage in long discussions, who are to blame for, but do not bring a solution – if there are many Lower Austrian children who pay in Vienna, although there is the mandatory Free Kindergarten, because they do not live in Vienna, but in Lower Austria, but because of the opening hours the parents must give the children in Vienna to the kindergarten, then this is not socially fair and also the task of the Federal Government to put action in place. [[Interlocutory call to the ÖVP]] Her “presidency” – the predecessor in the actual sense she is not –, the then competent State Secretary Remler, has also put this in perspective. They don't want to be here. The Public Prosecutor's Office has given a very clear answer in its report by saying that it is possible to intervene on Article 15a agreements. You said you didn't want to do it – and all of this to the families that mattered to it. Against this background, I make the following requests: [[Quoted print version removed]] Federal Chancellor Faymann said that during this legislative period there would still be an obligation to visit two years of kindergarten. You, the government parties, you, the Federal Chancellor's main party, can now prove whether you follow this claim or not. The second application relates to the children with disabilities: Motion for a resolution by Mrs Musiol, Mrs Freunds, on the abolition of the derogation from the obligation to visit half-days of free and compulsory early support in institutional childcare facilities for children with disabilities The National Council wants to decide: "The Federal Government is invited to enter into negotiations with the federal states and to submit to the National Council a draft for a revision of the agreement in accordance with Art. 15a B-VG on the introduction of the six-day free and mandatory early support in institutional childcare facilities, which does not exempt children with disabilities from the obligation and provides for the provision of appropriate spatial, human and communicative conditions. The disabled organisations shall be involved.” That's what I'm asking you to do. [[Call the ÖVP: Who pays it? Who pays?]] Go down from the education brake – for all children in Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e12322	The two motions for resolutions which have just been tabled are sufficiently supported and are under negotiation. The two applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e12448	Next speaker: Minister of State Dr. Mitterlehner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e12469	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I have now come to the floor because I want to replicate Mrs Musiol right away. Mrs Colleague, I already have the impression that you simply do not take note of the issues which we are discussing in committee meetings with regard to the legal situation and come back to the starting point you mentioned earlier. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Musiol]] In this context – I am referring to the detail at once – I absolutely do not like your orientation, and it does not correspond to the circumstances, because you are mainly talking about “building sites”, as far as kindergarten and childcare is concerned, and I see exactly the opposite. [[New call of the abg. May. Musiol.]] We have an internationally best comparable kindergarten care and childcare at all. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Binder-Maier.]] [[Call the ÖVP: High satisfaction!]] On the part of the federal government, especially in recent years in the area of childcare facilities and kindergartens, we have been morally aware of the obligation, which has not been given by law-making, by providing appropriate resources for an Article-15a agreement – you know the matter – as regards childcare. However, we have also given the appropriate financial support for the compulsory half-day kindergarten visit, not because we like it that way, but because it is an important measure for us. We have seen that the financial compensation has now been extended, so we have already made the guarantee for the next two years: twice € 70 million – and you act as if the financial situation would not matter, although this was the subject of the whole debate in the morning. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Musiol.]] Therefore: This budgetary situation is a very, very important framework to address future improvements. They are addressing what the integration report is about to do with this proposal for a second mandatory year. We are very positive about this, but it will also be a question of financial feasibility and the background. [[Abg. May. Musiol: Well, then!]] That is why we will start talks with the countries responsible for this area. It must be said that we already have a 95 percent cover for the essentially kindergarten situation in four years old. It is quite possible... [[Abg. May. Musiol: How about the three-year-olds?]] That's where we talk about childcare. This is not the subject of the agenda now, but I would like to speak on it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Musiol.]] [[Call to the ÖVP.]] That means we're on a positive path here. As far as childcare is concerned – because you always do so – I also tell you: You can see this as you – the glass is half empty, and it is bad – I see it as more than half full, in the direction that we actually fill the glass. [[Interlocutory call to the ÖVP]] Why? – We have already more than achieved the Barcelona target in the care quotas for the three to six years. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Musiol.]] That's more than 90 percent. This is a positive performance that has cost the state over the last three years – co-financed by the countries – a total of €60 million. There is now also a continuation. We have created a follow-up financing and a continuation. That's positive to see. Why? – Because in this context we will also achieve significant improvements in the zero to three years. We will create around 5 000 new places per year and much faster than you say in the broadcasts you make constantly – much earlier than 2020 – the Barcelona target. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Musiol.]] It's a difficult way. [[New call of the abg. May. Musiol.]] Mrs Colleagues, I know that this issue with the homepage is coming back to some EU committee. I can only tell you: It's not from us, and you see the right number representation here. [[Abg. May. Musiol: On the side...!]] I am now also on a point which I believe is important, namely the quality standards that you rightly address, but which we cannot give to the countries as an obligation. In principle, every child in every federal state has to be treated equally. [[Abg. May. Musiol: Every child has the right to...!]] That is why we are developing, in the context of an evaluation, first of all, what the previous initiative has produced, second, what we can recommend here in terms of standards, and thirdly, what the countries are to adopt. The fact that we do not act in empty space is a note of the lifelong learning strategy. Why? – There is exactly the same thing inside, the goal goes even further. [[Abg. May. Musiol: But you do not act after that!]] – That was just presented this week. [[New call of the abg. May. Musiol.]] [[Call to the ÖVP.]] This is even further in the objective, namely that these standards should be applied and implemented. To say that all of this is a construction site and not true is simply incorrect. This is exactly what I'm going to get to the next point: With regard to this cross-border problem, I do not understand why they appeal to us regarding our tasks and the needs that we are to implement. [[Abg. May. Musiol: Because you don't fulfill it!]] [[Call to the ÖVP.]] There is a situation of competence when it comes to equal treatment in Vienna and Lower Austria. This is a problem which the two countries have to resolve. [[Abg. Rädler: Municipalities!]] We have an opinion that clearly states that an article 15a agreement can only be made if there is a federal competence – it is not available – and if all other federal states agree that such an agreement is made. This is not the case because the other countries have already solved the problem. Solution Therefore, you may be eligible for what is to be solved, but don't create an artificial problem! [[Abg. May. Musiol: So that means the public prosecutorship has...!]] And: Be connected to us in such a way that you do not throw this into the debate all the time, even though we have already explained the situation of competence for a long time! [[Abg. May. Musiol: Is that what the public prosecutor has...?]] Finally, I would like to say to the whole thing – that has already been mentioned by Mr Ridi Steibl – that we want to widen and deepen quality in the care of mothers and fathers of the day, and that there are appropriate certification proposals and training facilities. I believe that this will be a very important contribution for the regions outside the country, because there is, of course, the feasibility not as much as in the urban area. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Musiol]] Let me summarize: I say that we have a system as a whole that is really well designed, which can be designed despite budgetary scarcity towards further expansion and therefore does not need to hide comparisons with other nations. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e12715	The next item is Mrs Binder-Maier's speech at 4 minutes' speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e12737	Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Musiol, I understand your commitment, and I also understand your commitment to various areas, which are still a solution that needs to be changed. What I cannot understand, however, is a global downturn in the whole debate in relation to childcare, which really passes away from reality. [[Abg. Riedler: Completely!]] Our country really did not deserve it. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Mrs Musiol: We do not need to get through to action. – On the contrary, there are parliamentary, democratic rules of play, and it is about implementing. [[Abg. May. Musiol: Exactly! Turn it over!]] Mrs. Colleague, it takes time. We do not need to get through with this, we do not need to be told by you. Third point: I'm a pedagogy. I'm a nurse to continue using the old-fashioned term because I like it. Playing on and on is education. Game is education, and this is an essential feature and an important part of childcare facilities, of kindergartens. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Prince.]] Mein Ladies and gentlemen, The point to be debated now ensures that the free and mandatory kindergarten visit for children is still guaranteed one year before entering school – at least 20 hours, at least four days a week. The Minister and colleague Steibl have already pointed out that €70 million was decided in 2009 per year. Today, the decision will be extended to 2013. Then it is a question of the new financial balance, of the new negotiations. The allocation of funds takes place depending on how many five-year-olds live in different Länder. Then, depending on the federal state, the distribution of funds with the municipalities is negotiated. The Grants are intended and are intended to replace the additional burden for the municipalities. Ladies and gentlemen, this money is well established, well invested. It is about children being competent before entering school, that they are made fit and possible weaknesses are balanced. Special attention will be paid to the development of language. Possible deficits can thus be recognized and compensated early enough. What I would particularly like to stress is that the social competences of children are also promoted. Children learn through children. We have a more than 90 percent care rate for three to six-year-old children. We still need additional facilities for under three years – 17 percent are currently in care, and 33 percent are the target. We'll work on it. I think that further funding of € 15 million per year for further expansion is also an important, essential step for the children in Austria. The issue is that children benefit from visiting educational institutions, that they are well prepared for their further life course, that they are based on it, and that there are opportunities for education. Of course, the second mandatory and free kindergarten year is superior and can be included in the discussion. We'll talk about it. I know, of course, that there are many other topics that we still need to discuss, from quality criteria to clear educational goals to the closing days in kindergartens. This is not a new topic, but sometimes parents really face big problems. I would ask you to approve the amendment to the Article-15a agreement. In the end, the children, the parents, are our society. It is about increased opportunities, equality and justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e12817	House technicians will take care of each other around the clock. [[Abg. Binder-Maier: Thank you! Because you can't track how long you've been talking!]] - Yes, I already see that. The next speaker was Mrs Haubner. It's set for 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e12848	Mr President. Federal Minister! We will vote in favour of today's decision to continue the funding millions for the last mandatory kindergarten year – half-dayly extended until 2013. We think that this is a sensible measure. In the previous year, in September 2010, we made a request, in which we also called for this continuation, and therefore, of course, we agree today. [[Aufgaben bei BZÖ und der Abg. Steibl.]] We agree because this also relieves the communities – and I say so as a councillor. As a result, the loss of income for the municipalities is somewhat lower. But first of all, it is an offer for those who may not always have the chance to visit a kindergarten, an educational institution if they need to be paid. We believe that all children, no matter what social environment they come from, should have the same opportunities and must. We also see this last year as a necessary support for those children who do not yet have such good control of the German language and otherwise get into elementary school with deficits. Mr Federal Minister, I am very excited what the evaluation you have announced looks like. I would like to point out that the BIFIE said very important things about this last kindergarten year: “The situation for children without kindergartens is particularly problematic: every second child needs intensive promotion of language competence. In particular, children with migration backgrounds who do not visit kindergartens do not meet the linguistic requirements in German. 80 % of them need funding in German; special funding measures in the year before entering school could improve their starting conditions." I mean, that's an important, right and good argument. We stand for this mandatory last kindergarten because it has always been one of our demands. We will not give our consent to the request of the Greens for a second compulsory kindergarten year. We believe that although it is necessary to expand the offers – that is not a question at all – the parents should not be ordered under the cover of the obligation. Especially in the youngest age, parents should be able to decide for themselves how they want to care for their child – at home, through a mother-in-law or through a public institution. Last year is a crucial year of education. The improvement of care facilities is an important measure and the necessary money is made available. Mr Federal Minister, I would like to address two areas: I cannot spare you the accusation that from my point of view, from our point of view, there is a standstill – especially as regards the Family Benefits Fund. You will already have read it, today the Court of Auditors report has been published. On the one hand, he clearly criticises the wild growth of family promotions – countries, federations – that we have discussed more often. We are still waiting for this transparency database to be finally introduced, so that it is clear what the individual families get from funding. I think much remains on the track. This does not mean that families should get less, but it needs to be made transparent whether there are double promotions. The second point that the Court of Auditors notes is that the benefits of the family compensation fund should be evaluated on their immediate family relationship. This is a request we have already made in committee. We said that non-family benefits do not belong to FLAF. Measures should be prepared to ensure the financial sustainability of the financial instrument. Alternatively, consideration should also be given to reorganising the financing of family-related benefits. This is a call for new ideas. We have introduced such a new idea into a family benefit centre, to a breakdown, to the last committee. You can be for it or against it, but I think you should discuss new ideas. How do we finance this family compensation fund in a sustainable way so that the benefits for families are really secured? Mr. Federal Minister, you yourself said that the system is a good one and we can finance it all further. But we have to see that this is put on right legs. That's nothing that only happened under your family minister's idea, but - I'm telling you honestly - it was at my time, that's what it was. Even before my time. Now it is really high time to do something and not to push it out again. I would like to mention once again the second area in which I think there is a standstill, where it is a question of supporting those children who grow up in families where they are neglected in which they are at risk where parents are overwhelmed. To date, we have no uniform regulations for a youth welfare law. It's constantly being pushed back and forth. They say the countries don't want to. The countries say the federal government is not paying. It cannot be that at the expense of our children who are at risk, nothing happens – even in the form of prevention. Mr Federal Minister, you know that we keep asking questions about child protection. It is striking that we always get the same answer – I think it is point 4 – that Mrs. Remler, Secretary of State, has worked it out and is being further negotiated. But I mean, Mrs. Remler is not in your ministry for some time now. So I would ask you to come up with a new answer so that we can know what is really going on now. Therefore: Yes to these child care funds. I ask you, however, to set up a tooth – as you say so beautifully – in the area of refurbishment of the FLAF, as well as in the support system, prevention for children and families who need our help in particular. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e12924	The next speaker is Mrs Hellerer. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e12945	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! I agree with all the previous speakers who said that all children should be given the best starting opportunities in the field of education, regardless of the environment of life. [[Complementary of the Abg. May. Musiol.]] The change in the Article-15a Agreement, which is being discussed here today, continues to invest intensively in institutional childcare. That's right. This creates, above all, the best conditions for the five-year-old children, who can and must accept the compulsory free kindergarten year, for entry into everyday life in schools, especially those who have to suffer from deficits and fight them. The Federal Minister, with the guarantee of the funds for the next two years – it is €70 million a year – has taken an important step from the federal side. Of course, the federal states are on the train. Child care is in the competence of the federal states, they must take measures to force the development and supply of care facilities accordingly. I'm sure a lot will happen and be invested. Mrs Musiol, I do not know where you live. I live in Austria, in Lower Austria, and there in recent years a lot of money has been taken into hand from the country and from the communities that are the kindergarten carriers. It was invested in the extension and kindergarten facilities. Small groups were created, kindergarten teachers and assistants were recruited, and the children experienced excellent care there. I'm not saying everything's right. Of course, it's still a little better to do, But it has been very much set in motion. For this, ladies and gentlemen, this federal funding was crucial, which was an important family policy step taken by the Federal Government. – Thank you very much. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is also invested in changing the care situation for under three years. From the Lower Austrian side, I can say that all two-and-a-half-year-olds already have the opportunity to have a kindergarten. I am pleased if this incentive funding can continue to take place, because it is necessary that additional care places be provided. That's a point of order. That's undisputed. Of course you have to take one step after another. We are on the road very well in the area of childcare in Austria, but of course there can be wishes, and there can still be more. I am also pleased about the latest “child” of the Federal Minister – this certificate, this seal of goodness, which will improve the quality of care for day-parents and, above all, ensure that all children will experience excellent care even in the early childhood. I would like to thank you for all the measures taken in the field of childcare. I am sure that best work will be done in the field of education and, above all, in training towards school. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e12999	Next speaker: Mrs Lueger. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e13021	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Sometimes I think I was in a wrong committee. [[Abg. May. Musiol: There have already been different viewpoints there!]] We have also discussed in the Committee about these €70 million, which have been made available, will continue and will be guaranteed even beyond the financial compensation. I also say here in this circle that this is certainly not as obvious as you suppose it is. [[Abg. May. Musiol: Education is not self-evident!]] That is why the great joy is that we have put the emphasis on continuing with the first non-domestic educational institution. We are all here in this house, I think, agree that we want the kindergarten as an early stage, as the first extra-domestic education care. [[Abg. May. Musiol: Is education natural or not?- Oh, my God!]] With the start of the funding, it was also possible to create jobs, create new kindergartens – in advance. For the three to six years old, we already cover a giant percentage throughout Austria. With the three-year-olds I am with you, we have not yet reached the Bologna target, but the financial resources are now in place. [[Abg. May. Musiol: Not yet! Not even half!]] But I would also like to address the other aspect: The creation of these kindergartens creates not only opportunities for all children but also new jobs. [[Abg. May. Musiol: Eben!]] These are new jobs outside the communities – especially for women at the moment, but perhaps we will also create a motivation for more men to go to these childcare facilities. These 5 000 new places are also a positive aspect. I am also on the point with you that you must certainly think about extending perhaps to a second mandatory year, as Mr State Secretary has said in brief. Nevertheless, I do not want to lose sight of reality and say that we are aware that at the moment we have too few educators. [[Abg. May. Musiol: The framework conditions need to be improved! Pay better!]] They must be trained, trained or even trained. Therefore, the framework conditions must be created in the form that we have sufficient educators. The financial resources for the next step are available. The city of Vienna was there in a pioneering role with the additional training courses Pick-up and Change, has recognized the difficulty and done something about it. [[Abg. May. Musiol: And Lower Austria?]] It would have been nice if several federal states had decided to accept this project so that we could train faster. In February of this year, 64 pedagogues have already completed the pick-up and change models and can work very practically because they are partly colleagues who have already worked in the child service. They can be used very well. Once again, on the request relating to the cross-border kindergarten visit you have made: At the moment, it does not allow for the legal situation, but I can remember very well that the Minister in the Committee has said that it is necessary to think about it at the next financial compensation. Now, in my knowledge, it's already like this: If there is the promotion of objects in Vienna and the promotion of objects in Lower Austria, there are already possibilities for the countries to agree within both variants. But it would also be better for me if there were a federal solution. We will therefore agree to the extension of this Article 15a agreement.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e13140	As the last speaker on this item on the agenda, Mr Prince is speaking on behalf of the House. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e13161	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Free for parents, but not for free for the children is the free kindergarten year for the five years. It's a good thing. The educational opportunities of our children and also the compatibility of family and profession are improved. The introduction of the free kindergarten year two years ago and the commitment to a half-day kindergarten visit for the five years were a great success overall. The care rate in Austria is 98.3 percent. However, what means free for parents means additional costs for the state, the countries and the municipalities, which in some 70 percent of all cases are the recipients of childcare facilities. My home village of St. Nikola an der Donau also invests a lot annually in the care of the children with the support of the state of Upper Austria. The €70 million the federal government has been providing since 2009 is a necessary support for the countries and communities. The extension of this support by two years will greatly facilitate the coverage of the missing parental contributions. With these around €140 million, which we are discussing today and hopefully agreeing together, meaningful investments are made which are worth several times. In addition to the fact that parents are under severe financial burden, this mandatory kindergarten visit also improves the social competence of early school students accordingly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In addition, with the expansion of childcare facilities, high-quality jobs have also been created and, as already mentioned, a better compatibility of family and work. Not everything is meant and can be regulated by the League. However, where countries and municipalities are responsible, as well as kindergarten – and this is basically good – problems should also be solved between the affected federal states. The idea of State Secretary Kurz, those children who really need to have a second free kindergarten year, is basically very positive. However, it should not be done as the Greens do, that they should derive a commitment from it again. [[Abg. May. Musiol: That's what he wants himself to do! Don't you listen? Explain what you want in the party!]] It is up to the government to address the matter with care and careful examination, to raise the needs and costs. Responsibility means acting with mind and mind, and I think that would be a good thing for all the parties here in the house. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, as the Upper Austrian, I can finally point out that since autumn 2009 the kindergarten has been with us for all children from 30. Life is free and those parents who care for their three- and four-year-old children at home are financially supported with the child care bonus. – This is true freedom of choice for the families.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e13210	Mrs Kitzmüller's next speech. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e13231	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! If you look at the two requests made by the Greens, then they are very coherent, for example in terms of giving the disabled the same obligation if you already give the others an obligation. Not that I'm voting for the commitment now, but in the final effect, this is a continuous, thought-out project. In contrast, the project we have been proposed here by the government has not been considered from the outset. We were already at the beginning against the compulsory kindergarten. Why? – Simple: It has not been planned from the outset. There were too few educators... – For the Free Kindergarten, but not for the mandatory! [[Abg. Ursula Haubner: Mrs. Gartelgruber said you are for it!]] [[Abg. Steibl: You didn't agree either!]] At any rate, we have said that the commitment is not thought through. We have too few educators, as has already been pointed out here, who are not yet sufficiently trained. That is, we have too few places for these children to be sent there. Then, of course, the question arises: Why are disabled children not taken into compulsory kindergartens? – Because, of course, the key in the care relationship for the disabled child is much greater than the unimpeded child. That means that there would have been more of a care place with it. How does transport look? - It's not thought-out either. We have a compulsory kindergarten, which – as has been said here again and again – is an educational institution, and then the families whose children go to the kindergarten have to pay for the transportation themselves. - That's not thoughtful. Why not at school, in kindergarten? Now a second compulsory kindergarten year is required, which is probably even less thoughtful if the first is not even solved by the transport problem. Then we found: It is before we introduced the compulsory kindergarten, without which 95 percent of the children already went to kindergarten. What do we want? For the 5 percent who are not yet in kindergarten, an exception legislation? - I guess it can't be. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And then we have a very curious case that I would like to tell you here. It concerns Vienna. We assume we have a five-year-old child going to compulsory kindergarten. But now the parents and in conversation with kindergarten education find that the child is not mature for school. In other words, it must be registered from the school for home schooling. It is not then taken as a kindergarten child. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] That means the mother has to stay home for a year now, or this one year until the child comes to school, try again somewhere to get it on the line. Ladies and gentlemen, I should now like to say something about youth welfare. It's right, we were at the interim State Secretary Remler in February. It was said that there were only two federal states missing in order to bring youth welfare under one hat. How long do the two, three federal states need? We've been waiting almost a three-quarters of a year now, and there's nothing going on. You see, back and front this project is family, children fail.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e13305	No one is reporting on this. I therefore conclude the debate. Does one of the rapporteurs want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. Firstly, we shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 4: Request by the Family Committee to grant approval in 1225 of the supplements to the conclusion of the present agreement in accordance with Article 15a B-VG. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Musiol, colleagues on compulsory kindergarten visits in the last two years before admission. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. [[Abg. Head: This is not even the majority of the Greens!]] We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Musiol, colleagues and colleagues on the abolition of the derogation from the obligation to visit the six-day free and mandatory early promotion in institutional childcare facilities for children with disabilities. [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: Not very convincing!]] I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – That too is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 5: Proposal from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of its report 1271 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. [[14:39:13]] 6. Item Report by the Committee on Family Affairs on the proposal from Members Anneliese Kitzmüller, colleagues on the freedom to provide services for students (1272 p.m.) 7. Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 8. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 1133/A(E) by Mrs Ursula Haubner, colleague and colleagues on the uniform system for improving the health and safety at work of nurses (1274, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e13397	We now come to points 6 to 8 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mrs Kitzmüller. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e13425	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Children are our future, children are our highest good, and we have to take care of their training. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: But please don't yell again as before!]] – These are sentences that each of you can underline and confirm here. But how do we now allow our children to acquire as much education as possible and shape their future? We liberals have submitted an application that is specifically aimed at the students and is aimed at them. There was a commitment limit of €9 000 until 2011, and from 2011 it was increased to €10 000. If you require this amount, you will have to repay the family aid entirely. Our request continues. We want to raise the commitment limit to €12 000, with the 13th and 14th respectively. salary is not included, and different social benefits are not included, because we believe that students who do something for their studies must be rewarded for their benefits and should not be torpeded. We therefore believe that it is not possible to repay the total amount of family aid, but only half. The families bear enormous financial burdens until the children who study are on their own feet. Until they are trained, it is not easy for families to spend them. The attack on the families on the part of the government is not going to end if we look at all these requests being rejected, which means improving the family situation. An attack on the part of the government is now the removal of the 13th. Family allowances, non-valorizations of family benefits, restrictions on support until 24. Year of life and so on. But now it is always high time to do something for the students. Think of the families who are relieved of it! Think of our students who are not punished for their hard work! Think about the future of Austria too! – This is the one point that makes a request. The second request, which I would like to highlight here, is the request concerning the care families. It is also important to support these children, these families. There are families who accept those children who have not had it easy to get out of their environment, from their security, from their family, for whatever reason. For these tragic cases, families must take on responsibility, the admirable task of caring for these children and giving them a home, and these are the care families. How do we deal with these care families? – Protested disgraceful! They do trainings in their scarcely existing free time, they have to pay therapies in advance if they are not paid by the health insurance fund at the same time. You have to take care of these children and then often don't even have the opportunity for mothers to go to work at this time because the children just need special care and can't simply be given away. And what do they get for ensuring security and a comfortable growing up of these capable families who sacrifice themselves? – They are paid little over the lowliness, that is just over €374! Ladies and gentlemen, I think they deserve more. [[Accompaniment with the FPÖ and the Abg. Donate.]] Our demand was to give them at least a reward in the amount of minimum security, i.e. 753 €. But perhaps it is unrealistic to demand justice here. However, I do believe that it must not be unrealistic to create at least a harmonisation, so that we achieve a uniform system throughout the country to improve the labour and social security of our care families. [[Accompaniment with the FPÖ and the Abg. Donate.]] Remember, ladies and gentlemen, the future of Austria! In your hand, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, it is now up to you to create a better financial situation for the students and the care families in this case. We liberals are promoting the service providers, and I think we deserve to be promoted in our society. I hope to be able to make a rethink here with you, so that you can vote in favour of these requests.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e13474	The next speaker was Mrs Fürntrath-Moretti. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e13496	Mr President. Highly esteemed Minister of State! High house! Before a few numbers that are certainly very, very exciting. In Austria there were in the winter semester 2010/11 with booth 28. January 2011 at the universities 284 219 students enrolled, at the technical universities 37 564 and at the private universities 6 301 students. I have also made the effort to look at the report on the students from the previous year and have found very interesting details. These are the essential figures for me that I have read out: 61 percent of students are working alongside their studies, up to 20 hours per week. 19 percent work on vacations and a little more than half of students earn 400 € per month. On average, the total monthly budget of a high school student is €820 from direct cash and €160 from natural benefits, for example grants from parents. However, I would like to expressly address the request made by Mrs Kitzmüller for what is happening to students. I have found that there are, of course, some mental errors or the wage accounting has not been done correctly, no matter what. Many of you may know each other, some may not. I've prepared a little taferl – the liberals know how it is. [[The speaker presents a panel on the speaker's desk, on which the calculation model to which she will refer will be illustrated.]] If we make a gross annual earnings of € 11 999.96 and deduct from this annual salary €1 806.90 Social security – including the reduced rate of Christmas money and holiday money – then a sum of €10 193.06 comes out. No wage tax is charged. Then we subtract the holiday money and the Christmas money, i.e. one-twelfth each, that's 1 470,86 €. Thus, the annual net overservice would amount to €8 722.20; as far as the variant of the liberals is concerned. But there is already – you have mentioned it to Mrs Colleague – a budget-accompanied law decision in 2011, in which we have raised the level, and here is the Taferl. [[The speaker recently presented a panel on the speaker's desk, on which the calculation model to which she will refer will be illustrated.]] This is what we have decided on the budget accompanying law: There is an annual incubation service of €13,757,800, minus social security – this is €2,071.52 – in total, €11 686.28. wage tax does not affect any, minus holiday money and Christmas money, again to one twelfth each, that is 1,686,32 €. Thus, according to the new variant, there is an annual network service of € 9 999.96. With this arrangement, ladies and gentlemen, the students can earn more – relatively much as you see. And they can still get the family allowance.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e13554	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Musiol. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e13575	Ladies and gentlemen! We will not agree to this proposal either because it is faulty, which has now been shown, and also because it has been introduced before the budget accompanying law. This is not a long time to ride around, but it has actually led to no improvement, but to a deterioration for students. But what we should be able to discuss and discuss is the question of how to repay too much family aid. In fact, there should be consideration of grinding arrangements, such as those in the study aid. That means paying back the corresponding euro amount for every euro too much, but not having to repay everything. But because we are on the subject of family aid: There has been a knowledge of the Constitutional Court of Justice today, namely the two actions of the Governments of Vorarlberg and Carinthia, which were about the socially unjustified cuts of the Federal Government in the autumn and the family allowance was reduced to 24 and 25 years. Mrs Steibl, because I see you here: You've made a broadcast on it today, which has already surprised me a lot. You wrote in this issue: “Our decisions” – and I suppose you are my ÖVP and SPÖ – “were necessary and well thought out – the Constitutional Court has confirmed this today, too,...”. There is nothing in this judgment! The Constitutional Court has not confirmed that your considerations were “necessary and well thought out”. The Constitutional Court can also - fortunately! – not to make political assessments. Constitutional court judgments have the substance of whether a law is constitutional or non-constitutional, whether it complies with fundamental rights or not. You should know that as a member of the National Council. [[Abg. Steibl: He has confirmed that it is painful, but all right!]] But fortunately, the Constitutional Court does not turn out to carry out political assessments. Not every constitutional law is politically wise, let alone socially just – and this is precisely what this regulation is all about. The regulation you introduced in autumn, i.e. the reduction to 24 or, exceptionally, to 25 years, is socially unfair and is really harmful to many students. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We know, for example, that a maximum of 5 per cent can be completed at regular intervals, and we also know that this is not the case because it would be lazy students to be stupid students, but we know – and you all know this very well, especially those dealing with higher education policy – that this is the case because the framework conditions at universities do not allow for faster completion. It is more than cynical to say here that it was “necessary and well thought out” and to bring thousands of students into real situations of existence. Against this background it is necessary to say again: We'll keep checking. There are several reasons why this law can be attacked, and we will continue to consider whether further steps are to be taken. Now to the two other points that are now being discussed. One is the BZÖ's request concerning the mother-child pass. From our point of view – and this has been discussed in the Committee as well – a change to a parent-child-pass has long since been announced, because it is no longer the case that the studies concern only mothers and children, but that should all be concerned. However, we reject this request because it includes the condition that the family allowance is removed if the studies are not used. We also do not think that this is socially justified. But with regard to further development of the parent-child passport, especially in the context of legal deliberations, of explanations on the question, what happens if you then separate, how is it with care?, how is it with the right of visit?, we have made proposals. On the federal uniform scheme for nursing parents: We consider these to be urgently necessary, not only in terms of labour law and social law. We know that there are nursing parents in Austria who do not like the classic image of family, which the alleged family party ÖVP wants to inform us regularly, namely father, mother, child, but there are single nursing parents, there are same-sex nursing parents. However, this is not possible in all the federal states. In Lower Austria, for example, there are cases where negative decisions have already been voiced because nursing parents are a same - sex couple. This is massively discriminatory, and that is why we have to deal with it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e13639	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). I would draw attention to the need to interrupt the short debate at 3 p.m. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e13660	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! As for the request made by Mrs Kitzmüller, Mrs Fürntrath pointed out that the current legal system actually leaves more room for manoeuvre and is a more favourable situation than what is being requested. Secondly, Mrs Musiol has just mentioned that the Constitutional Court would have rejected this, and that was it, and it would not be a confirmation of the corresponding line. I cannot agree with that, ladies and gentlemen. You only need to look at the decision of the Constitutional Court and you will find that there are very political reasons here. I'm allowed to quote: ‘It is, rather, in the legislative area, the legislative framework, the age limit, until which a right to family support is granted in principle to raise or reduce, in accordance with family policy objectives and budgetary coverage,...’. Against this background, according to the Constitutional Court, the legislator would not have exceeded his appropriate margin of time when the family allowance was reduced in 2011. [[Abg. May. Musiol: But he doesn't judge!]] The Constitutional Court then examines several details, including the question of whether there is some sort of principle of trust in this context. And there it says: ‘It is rather a question of expenditure-financed transfers, which do not have constitutionally protected trust in unchanged survival.’ The school start-up fee – because it was also implied – instead of 13. Family aid only for compulsory students is not irrelevant because of the typically existing extra burden at school, according to the Constitutional Court. So all these objections have been rejected. [[Abg. May. Musiol: But you can design in one direction or another!]] I do not see in it any reason for a triumph, but I see an occasion for a confirmation here, because the budgetary margin was not there. Rehabilitation of the FLAF is a very, very important objective and it is achieved by this confirmed measure. We were not pleased that the family allowance had to be reduced, but it was alternativesless. - That's the first one. Secondly, In this context, they have also addressed the request, in particular with regard to the Mother-Child Pass, which is another item on the agenda, and also with regard to the issues still open, including the improvement of the labour and social security of care funds. I should like to comment on this: The first question is one that would cause FLAF more or less financial distress or new commitments when it comes to expanding the current situation. Since there are currently framework health targets for Austria to be designed on behalf of the Federal Health Commission under the direction of the Federal Ministry of Health and Health, and therefore a coordinated overall approach to health promotion and prevention is being developed in Austria, I would prefer this variant and would ask you to do so. With regard to the third component under this item on the agenda, I should like to point out once again the country's legal competence, which is due to the social security provisions of the care parents who are reserved for the countries. We have here a motion for a resolution by the National Council, a five-party motion which has been adopted. We will do a study, then put the situation on the debate and possibly also a change in the competence of the countries to reach, reach there or, if necessary, improve the situation by means of an Article 15a agreement. Since I still have a minute's time, I can also mention the repeatedly criticized youth welfare. Mein Ladies and gentlemen, there is the same problem: We have federal legislation, but we have implementing competence of the countries. The countries refuse to finance up to a new financial compensation. The four-eye principle would be urgently implemented due to various abuse cases. Therefore, I must say that the change in the government was in April; that only so that the months and weeks are not presented too intensively – so we are trying to ensure that what Mrs State Secretary Remler has begun in negotiations with the countries. I am relatively optimistic that we will succeed in the next few weeks. It is then a kind of transitional arrangement until we have a new financial compensation – in the interests of those concerned. Mrs Kitzmüller, I see no attack on family benefits. Overall, we still have more than we had in 2008, despite the necessary corrections, but one thing that brings us: to ensure the FLAF's scope for action accordingly, to increase even if necessary. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e13716	I am now interrupting the negotiations on points 6 to 8 of the agenda. [[15:00:08]] Short debate on the response to the question 8336/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e13740	We shall now proceed to the brief debate on Question No 8336/AB on the question of Mr Walser, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. The above-mentioned answer has already been distributed, so that a reading by the writer is not necessary. We are going into the debate. I draw attention to the fact that according to § 57a para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 5 minutes, with a speaking time of 10 minutes for the first speaker. Statements by members of the Federal Government or by State Secretary-General shall not take more than 10 minutes. I now ask Mr Dr. Walser as an applicant for the request to open the debate. The speaking time is 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e13777	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! Today is a very beautiful day for the Greens. Eva Glavischnig said today that the desert is green – with regard to the decision-making regarding eco electricity law. In fact, these are signs that even in this government something could move. [[President Mag. Prammer is taking over the presidency again.]] Unfortunately, this is not the case in the field of education. This is the case – and this is the reason for this question discussion – in particular with regard to the subject area “propaganda”; at least much more than the subject area “reform”. In an answer to Karl Oellinger about two years ago, it was said that only €1.619 million were spent on print media. Today, in the first three months alone, it is almost €300 000 for the New Middle School area. This is a certain misunderstanding, and that is why, as is the case in this reply to the question, there are so-called special means for communication activities in connection with the New Secondary School. The problem with this action is also – I quote the Association of Austrian Newspaper Publishers – the one-sidedness with which such ads are awarded. Quote: “The newspaper association criticized several times, public advertising fees went disproportionately to the Boulevard leaves ‘Krone’, ‘Austria’ and ‘Today’.” But let us leave this issue for the time being. Mr Brosz will address it even more intensively. Advertising, information is absolutely necessary, Mrs. Minister. We would urgently need advertising for new teachers, for example. We are faced with an blatant lack of teachers. We also urgently needed information, after the communication chaos, that Mrs. Amon and I, with regard to the modular upper level, have set up together, that it is not a matter of raising pupils with “not enough” but of providing students with the services to enable these services. I believe that the basic principle has been misunderstood, Mr Amon. [[Abg. Amon: We told the journalist that we did not hide it!]] This is your problem, because I assume you are able, with your political experience, to communicate journalists with your messages in such a way that they are understood. In this case, this has, in any case, been clearly missed. [[Abg. Head: Journalists are unable to “translate” it!]] – I do not think that it is appropriate to put the blame on journalists after this chaos. But let's leave it. Let's get to the problems it has in the field. There is a new secondary school – and there is an advertising for a project that is presented by many as a label flaw. Let's take a look at how advertising is made. For example, you advertise that the curriculums between the New Secondary School and the AHS sub-level are word-identical. We know that, for decades now, the curriculums between primary and secondary school have been word-identifiable. – Because the population is getting ahead of something that is nothing new in this context. Another point: Use of AHS teachers in the New Middle School in the fields of mathematics, German and English. In Vorarlberg, where of 56 primary schools are 52 new secondary schools, this is practically not happening at all. Although there are occasional – in hard for example – use in isolated communities, AHS or actual BHS teachers, they then teach additional subjects such as French, but by no means do they teach them in the subjects mentioned by you. On the topic Teamteaching: Almost shamed is the answer to this question that team coaching took place in different locations, according to the pedagogical reasoning, along the design of the respective model plans in other subjects. – But they advertise that this is the case in the main compartments, but one is not able to do so. What we have here is, as I said, zero information or incorrect information. And what can still be held on these ads: The “Kronen Zeitung” has earned well. How does reality look at the New Middle School? I quote Dr. Helmut Seel, no unknown, many years of Members of this House, one of the selected professionals, who is approaching the educational concept in Austria. Soul says yours New secondary school poses a risk that the transfer rights to secondary level II are no longer given. - Helmut Seel, your party colleague. And Helmut Seel continues to say that the New Secondary School will become the “second class train of the school system”. But you still know why this New Secondary School was created?! – I warned you of this danger that is now taking place. Helmut Seel also says that the word-identical curriculum you apply for is also in danger. In this context, I now quote another party colleague from you with whom I took part last week in a panel discussion in Steyr, District School Inspector Eva Zöchling: “We are being broken,” was her literal statement. We urgently need resources. But at this time you put the money from the Federal Government into propaganda. Another report from practice. In Vorarlberg, at the beginning of this company, when it became clear where the train was going, 496 teachers dared to sign a resolution stating that the New Secondary School was not a target in the direction of a common school. That was also a literal quote. Finally, in this resolution, there is a lot at stake, even for society as a whole. I can only support this, just like these 496 courageous teachers. This is a third of all teachers teaching in the area of the New Middle School in Vorarlberg. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amon.]] This does not seem to be remarkable to you, Mr Amon. In turn, I find it remarkable that the opinion of those teachers who teach in the New Middle School seems irrelevant to you. This gives me a significant picture of the EIA education policy, but I do not very much wonder. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr Amon, because we are already in the state... – Not only are these teachers courageous, but you know that in the school system it is not that easy to express yourself. [[Abg. Amon: I said not only these teachers are courageous!]] What we are experiencing in this context is an announcement policy. But you are miles away from implementing the reforms, Mrs Minister. The situation in schools is increasingly saddened, teachers are not at all in the direction in which this whole matter goes, and have come to mind when sintering money is made such propaganda and you say in connection with misinformation that it is about a journalistic simplification of complex facts. This is horrendous to the teachers concerned. The New Secondary School is symptomatic of this government's education policy. The ÖVP is satisfied, it protects its clients – the main focus of the ÖVP – and the SPÖ actually makes friendly nostrils and acts as if it were real reforms. Do not feed the Boulevard with ads, but go forward towards real reforms! You know that we support you. Unfortunately, only the concreteists are successful in terms of education policy at the moment. Unfortunately, it is the case that education is still inherited in Austria. The main responsibility for this is not you, I say, because I know that the main blockers are in the ranks of the ÖVP, but there are also a number of people who would be very willing to take part in reasonable reforms – unfortunately not present: Peter Haubner, who came in a statement for the common school. Unfortunately, not even other experts in your party, especially from the Economic Federation, who have been looking at this spectacle for a very long time, have continued to finance it as a party, and it has been possible that you do not take a step forward in education policy, a very essential area for the future of Austria. Let me close with an appeal to all: We would have at least a majority of three parties to a common school here in the House. If I count on the progressive part of the ÖVP, it would already be a very high majority. Let us finally address these problems. Austria needs to get down from the education brake.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e13903	It has now come forward with an opinion by Mrs Federal Minister Dr. Schmied. The speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e13924	Madam President. High house! With regard to the parliamentary question by Mr Walser, I am very happy to comment, although I have to say at the outset that I am somewhat surprised at the setting of priorities for your parliamentary questions, Mr Walser, and your attitude to my person in recent times. I am therefore aware that today I am also referring to your attempt to scandalize my travel planning, Mr President. As Minister of Education and as Minister of Art and Culture, I attach great importance to being present also in the federal states and regions. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] My presence and work in the federal states and in the regions are very important to me. So I regularly invite you to school partner dialogues, visit individual school locations, give lectures at educational universities, participate in educational discussions, and it is also important to me to visit cultural initiatives and even some more remote school sites. My schedule is very tight, well organized. I'm used to working very disciplined – and I also need mobility. It's really a concern to reject your engagements here. From my point of view, this has nothing to do with constructive, high-level opposition policy! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr Moser]] [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Walser: I have discussed your answer, nothing else! Tell me a break!]] Now on the current topic: Information policy on the New Middle School. In the period January 2010 to May 2011, a total of seven ads were placed. In these ads – there is no exaggeration of space – was brief and concisely informed about the New Middle School. It was important for me to include references to other sources of information, which represent the facts and further details. Specific examples were also cited, quotations from stakeholders. And I can only tell you that the resonance that I received was very positive, the desire for more information was awakened and information channels were also used. As an example, I bring the network parental information within the framework of the New Middle School, which was also the result of this information policy. Why is that important? – You know: Because a lot of people are affected, parents, students, teachers, grandparents, because we are currently implementing many reform projects, which in part cause uncertainty and therefore need information. Ads are just one way, school partner dialogues are another, much more personal way. The regional presence on the ground is important as well as networking meetings, Leadership Academy or a lively school partnership, which we also provide with information on the part of the Ministry. The principle of the New Secondary School is a high level of personal responsibility at the school locations. It is important to me to define quality criteria throughout Austria, which are examined by the Approbation Commission and also lived in high self-responsibility at the school location. What I hear when I go to school is “we and our school. ” There is a high level of motivation, self-confidence and a good working environment. Team coaching is an important and good prerequisite for this. I am very pleased that the development of the New Middle School is now continuing with the government partner. The New Secondary School becomes – I am convinced – the service school for our youth. The New Secondary School becomes a personal forge. It strengthens basic skills and is the basis for later specialization. Top performances need a broad basis, and the New Secondary School is a good foundation for this. In expanding the New Secondary School, we have no doubt that we have to pay attention to quality. The AHS-Teaching Plan for the New Secondary School is an important point for me, as well as uniform quality criteria and clear qualifications after the eighth level. The corresponding budget appropriations are provided for in the Federal Financial Framework Act. I was always interested in stock guarantees and financing guarantees. A broad information policy in all aspects and formats is essential for reform policy and I will continue to do so in autumn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e13979	The speaking time of the Members who have now spoken shall be 5 minutes each in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. First of all, Mr Mayer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e14003	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am doing a little hard now to get into the discussion with someone I have so far greatly appreciated because of his professionally competent nature – still estimate as far as the content is concerned – with colleagues Walser, not only because he is a countryman and also a school principal. The way he suddenly tries to put populist activities in order to get exactly into those boulevards he criticizes is surprising to me. I regret that, I have to tell you. You know how active the Minister is on the go, despite all the criticism – you can discuss it. They know how committed she is to the issues. They know how active it is in the federal states. You know that's necessary. We as SJler, red falcons, maybe you as a path finder, have learned: Do good and talk about it! – We have the task of transporting things, of course, also in media, which also read exactly those who are among the target groups we want to address. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr Moser]] And these are the areas that you are now discussing very populistly, to distract, because you know very well that in the field of education a great deal is happening. [[Abg. Dr. Walser: That's a question answer!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] It's not the single big throw, because we can't do it because of the structures you know, but we're taking it very decisively step by step towards a high-performance and chance-oriented school of the future. You know that. You know, too, the only thing you can still criticize – I am your opinion; I also want this out of deep conviction – is the lack of a common school, because I know how important it is not to do this separation at the age of nine. It would make a lot easier for the future, even if we were finally to follow the experts, the teachers at compulsory schools. You can hardly bring me a teacher from a compulsory school across Austria who says that the current regulation is good. She's not good! And I regret that too. I also know that there is a majority in this House for the common school. Even the liberals in Vorarlberg are very determined advocates for a common school, because there are also people who are very critical about pedagogy to do so. But it is also a reality that this is not feasible in this coalition, in this composition – that is not the subject of the coalition agreement. You know that. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Petzner.]] Therefore Claudia Schmied, as the Minister of Education, does everything possible in order not to allow any rigidity in the second grade of the 10- to 14-year-olds, so that even there is movement inside, so that, when the time is ripe, the common school is going to be more mature than some believe – the corresponding organizational conditions are already present. If you know what direction it is when you know how hard we are – today we have discussed kindergarten early education, the steps for it – you can't act like you. We are in favour of putting the new teacher training on the feet. We have introduced the new Matura, the education standards for the 10- to 14-year-olds. All these are things you support that you are for. These steps move like a red thread through a modern education policy. And then you try to make up for education policy through such requests for a flight to Vorarlberg, or an advertisement to be turned on in the “Kronen Zeitung” or in “ÖsterREICH”, try to fix a failure of education policy! [[Calls to the Greens.]] This is not Your level, Mr Walser! They're much stronger. [[Abg. Dr. Walser: I didn't do that either!]] You don't need to do propaganda here in such a cheap populist way! I'm not saying here either: Mr. Walser, you've been director of a gym for years, why haven't you taken any steps for the common school?- Oh, my God! Is your school working together with a New Secondary School and is it available to these professors? – No, of course not! I also know you can't do that, but that would be just as superficial and populist as you do. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: That's the jumping point!]] That's why you invite: Return to an objective policy that we urgently need in the field of education! You can do that. That would be important and would serve the matter as well. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e14098	Mr Lopatka has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e14134	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The question we are discussing today has two areas of content: on the one hand, the advertisements that have been criticised in connection with the New Secondary School, and on the other hand, the issues of content. On the content, it is clear that the Federal Government, as the Federal Minister has already done, is on a good path in the gradual transition of all primary schools to New Secondary Schools. But we also want to meet criteria. First criterion: There must be legal certainty. Second criterion: The quality must be right. Third criterion: The school partners must be involved. Fourth criterion: Of course, it must also be eligible for funding. If you want to guarantee all of this, you can't do that from today to tomorrow, but you need a level plan. This change will take place until 2016. So there is no need to discuss this question. The Federal Government is on the right track in this regard. Second: The opposition is likely to escape the fact that, as far as advertising is concerned, the government considers that we need a new regime here. The Media Transparency Act has already been passed by the government. This will create criteria and a quality step that will bring more transparency and monitoring by an independent authority. This lack of transparency, which – and I add – has, of course, been rightly criticized by the opposition in the past, is no longer the case in the future. This will also be good for the media, because their publicistic credibility will naturally increase, although it will be shown that there is political independence and that it does not depend on a certain advertising volume that flows in certain directions to make its report. In this context, I would also like to tell you that the government is taking this very seriously – because the opposition has also criticized the fact that this is too little. There will be these reports here half-yearly to an independent media authority. And if this is not met by institutions that can examine the Court of Auditors – for all legal entities subject to the Court of Auditors are obliged to do so – then there are also appropriate penalties in case these reports do not take place – in the case of repetition up to €60 000. That's what the individuals will feel accordingly. The third thing: All of us, if we take it seriously with credibility, should as little hypocrisy as possible, Mr Walser. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Walser.]] If it is criticised that something is being advertised in the field of education, which one does not actually have to advertise, I tell you the following: I can then give you an advisor to your colleague Vassilakou – I suppose she can be referred to as a colleague. [[The speaker shows this]] This is what the future of learning looks like! If you look at this and then add an advertisement from the Federal Minister – you can have it checked by an independent body – you will find: [[Abg. Dr. Bartenstein: That's big!]] [[The speaker shows this]] There's no difference here. Both ads contain a photo of the respective member of the government so that the recognition value increases. Does the photograph of colleague Vassilakou have a different value than the photo of the woman minister? I'd say no. Or? [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Walser: The information in there is right, the others are not voting!]] So I'm saying, Read the future of the learning of the 10- to 14-year-olds in the common school, the Song of Highs; you will find here again. [[Abg. Dr. Walser: It's about the content, Mr. Lopatka!]] I'd like to give it to you for reading. [[Abg. Dr. Walser: Thank you, I read it!]] So, please don't hypocrite! Because the colleagues from the FPÖ laugh: I can also say in your direction: For example, in Upper Austria you now have a Land Council, and he also laughs out of his listing. [[The speaker shows this]] [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] So: If a party is in a government, it has arrived at the latest in the inserting. I just wanted to tell you that.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e14249	Mr Dr. Rosenkranz has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e14270	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr Walser has shown an advertising campaign that cost about €320. He has a period up to and including 4. May surveyed. ==References== May the next listing at €28,000 and later another one – the answer to our request is not yet here. However, it must not be forgotten that the Federal Minister is generally inclined to pour out a stuffing horn over the media. I am thinking, for example, of the value of an event, of the fact that the Austrian School Prize 2010 was obviously not honoured as a journalist, because one could have invited journalists to report on it. All media always write how important education is, but there has been no report of it. ==References====External links== September 2010, in the “Kronen Zeitung”, in“ÖsterREICH ” and “Today ” around €130,000. A day in the newspaper landscape “Kronen Zeitung”, “ÖsterREICH”, “Today” costs a total of € 130 000, and that for the fact that the Austrian school award was awarded in 2010. But not only the media landscape is served, but in the timetable period 2009/2010 even three trains got a new name: A train is called “New Middle School”, a “Political Education” and a “Education Fair.at”. Cost: €30 000. And finally, the big hammer: You certainly remember the campaign about the change of the German anthem – big sons, big daughters – with all the drums and dran, also with the corresponding advertising circuits: gross 920 000 €. So there's a lot more to it. What Mr Walser actually wanted to say here: He's so dissatisfied because it's too short for him to go to the common school. And then he asks: What about this propaganda if the money is missing for it? – You know, Mr Walser, that's the way it is: If the product is not good, you need to put more in the propaganda. This is exactly the same in economic life. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The New Secondary School is such a bad product, so you have to apply for it more. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Walser.]] So that you can imagine what comes out of the teacher world of statements on the school attempt: “In reality, we are also differentiated. This takes place in such a way that we often share the class according to performance and teach separately.” Or: “Relatively quickly, we set ourselves up and varied the teaching in stages. This is not difficult for team coaching, we also have the rooms to be able to spontaneously share the classes in two groups if necessary.” Or: ‘A headmaster of an NMS site ‘orders’ the following class composition: all students with only one student in the NMS class, all others in other classes. In doing so, he wants to show that the NMS has AHS level.” Or: “The stronger remain on the... – Mr. Rädler! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] Si tacuisses! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] “From above” it was said that we should look at that mind. 2/3 to create NMS’. Or: “I was informed that in the NMS classes, an NMS school-internal decided only to award grades from 1 to 3!!” or: ‘They are permanently lying in their own pocket as far as the level of education is concerned.’ Or: “The good students are bored in class and too little funding.” This is reflected on the side by side in these experiences. [[Abg. Wheelers: Then look at the practice!]] It's out of practice! I come to visit you, that is, thank God, in Lower Austria, not so far away. Then I'll be able to ask people how to actually choose someone like you as mayor. This will be a very interesting discussion on the spot. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Wöginger and Mr Petzner.]] Or a quote from the education scientist in Austria: “PISA would be taken in Germany as an argument for differentiated education, in Norway – where there is already the total school – a return to diversity will be discussed after the PISA study.” Or, very much appreciated by me and always invited by the SPÖ, the philosopher Konrad Paul Liessmann: “A common school with de-motivated teachers will be a disastrously bad school.” Quotes on quotations, out of practice. [[Interlocutory calls at SPÖ as well as by Mr Rädler and Mr Petzner.]] Mr Rädler, you can only open your mouth this way because you probably have to defend and represent the Pröll model for yourself – which is even the biggest pot. This has been done by people who want a different solution on principle, but do not have the slightest idea of education policy. Mr. Rädler, you're coming in.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e14367	Next speaker: Mr Brosz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e14388	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr Mayer and also Mrs Federal Minister! [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] [[Abg. Petzner shows the already addressed listing of Maria Vassilakou.]] The form of the answer has also surprised me today, but perhaps you can also carry it out objectively. It is one of the tasks of Members to know where a serious discussion begins, where it ends and where one must also be criticized. First: Mr Walser has made a collective request to all ministries after information has been received from us that there should be ministers and ministers who plan their travel activities in such a way that she travels within Austria, travels to the airport, brings the minister or minister to the airport, flies the minister or minister and follows the van alone, so to speak, only traveling vans aimed at the place of arrival. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Petzner.]] Well, I hope the chauffeur usually rides along, because otherwise there might be problems. These cases have not only been addressed in Austria, but also in other countries. Of course, the question arises whether there is not a more reasonable – transport policy, environmental policy, cost-effective – alternative, for example, if you fly from Vienna to Vorarlberg, than to send the empty service car behind. Now there may well be the case, as you have written it or stressed, that there are further dates for follow-up, where it may not be possible to do otherwise. Mrs Minister, I have to tell you that the responsibility lies with the answer itself. If one line mentions how many kilometres there are, and there is no indication of what dates were to be made, where it was necessary, where it might not be necessary, then one must say seriously... [[Abg. Amon: There's no such thing as that! Where are we?]] – “There is no such thing as that? Where are we then?" That's interesting, so obviously it's outside of any criticism that ministers can let their vans drive around in Austria, which is part of the practice. If you ask if this is reasonable or not, in the sense of cost-effectiveness – where are we then? [[New calls from the Abg. Amon.]] Sorry?- Oh, my God! So let's hold on: The Federal Government seems to consider it irrelevant how the journeys are made. You may not be allowed to ask if you fly first class either. This has all been the subject in other countries. I don't know, we're talking about transparency today, and then there's a problem when you ask for it. So we can already take a little form in the answer. [[Between calls at SPÖ and Abg. Amon.]] Then let us go to the Court of Auditors. Do you know the criteria of the Court of Auditors for Government Councils? Are you aware of them? A clear separation of advertising and reporting? [[Intrusions of the Abg. Mayer.]] Mrs Minister, there are ads in “ÖsterREICH”, there is very small below, I believe in a ten-point paper on it: Advertising. Otherwise, it is designed as an editorial contribution. It is quite a classic of the Court of Auditors debate that this is a form of intervention that should not take place. In the form that you do not know clearly whether this is an advertisement or an editorial contribution. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Lopatka, who recently shows an advertisement of Maria Vassilakou.]] There are also ads, as I do not even find the hint for multiple and precise searches – I now explicitly speak of the “district leaf”, much easier to clarify – that this call is an advertisement. It's not up to it, it's no indication that it's an advertisement. That's probably okay, too. [[Interlocutory calls from Amon and Mayer.]] This is a form of integration policy which, in any case, has been heavily criticised by the Court of Auditors and should not take place. In every form of the definition of quality media, it is quite clear that media and advertisements... – I find that remarkable, the colleague Amon feels called to defend himself. [[New calls from the Abg. Amon.]] This is obviously also a form of transparency. We are talking about a transparency law, where the costs are to be imposed, but the people who read it do not know whether it is an intrusion or an editorial contribution. And you don't find anything with it at all?- Oh, my God! – You know, this is the form of discussion that you can then lead. I would also like to criticize us for saying it is legitimate to say that you have crossed borders, but if you do not even think that this is problematic – where there are dozens of Court reports that this form of advertising policy should not be made – then I do not know what we can seriously discuss. That's a no-go from my point of view. We can discuss the scale of advertising – legitimate. Where is it necessary? Where is it a form of reconnaissance? That's what we can do. But then it must be clear that the advertising and advertising are, and that a minister of education especially appreciates that this is also being cleaned up, on this minimum, I think, one should be able to understand. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] That is the cheapest argument, then always to emphasize the content. Everything else under the carpet gets best, so don't talk about it, get down there. Some then say to the business of friends that they should never take place in a normal form, because there is no other contact at all. No, it's on the table! If borders have been exceeded – from my point of view, they have been exceeded in the form of ad-advertisers – this discussion must be taken as a minister, also in Austria and in the Austrian Parliament.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e14499	Next speaker: Mr Petzner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e14520	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! So the Greens should never accuse other parties of populism again, because if these speeches by Mr Walser and Mr Brosz were not populism in pure culture, then I ask: what then? [[Abg. Dr. Moser: Then you didn't listen!]] With your discussion about any service cars – the service car of the woman minister does not matter to me, I tell you, because with a service car discussion one doesn't solve any educational problem in Austria, no student has been helped, no reform has been made; nothing at all! [[Congratulations with BZÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Walser: No one claimed!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Korun.]] Above all, I am not at all interested in this because you should come at your own door, because I really have to borrow it from Mr Lopatka – all that you criticise to the Minister of the Federal Government, with some notes that are not correct, you, Mrs Vassilakou in Vienna, make up to the excess. [[the speaker shows the listing of Maria Vassilakou]] You advertise: Vienna builds for you! Large construction sites 2011. It is also a bit ironic that especially the Greens as an environmental party need to apply large construction sites. But that's your problem, too, and not mine. [[As a result, the Commission has not yet received any comments from the interested parties.]] I also have to say the same thing in the direction of Mr Rosenkranz: Mr. Rosenkranz turns himself out and says: If the product is not good, you have to make more propaganda! If I look at the current advertising campaign of Mr. Strache, which is pasted all over Austria, I can only say: You have the worst product of all parties here in the House! [[As a result, the Commission has not yet received any comments from the interested parties.]] [[Calls of the Abg. Dr. Moser.]] So don't tell us anything about any advertising costs. The highest costs on the taxpayer account for party advertising is clearly the FPÖ. [[Call the FPÖ:The envy is a dog!]] Again: This service car discussion or ad discussion has not taken a step forward in education policy. Right is the criticism or concern that the only good model of the New Middle School remains such a kind of label gap. I hope and wish that what the New Middle School should be content – that is what we all want – at the end of the day, the deadline has also been mentioned, will actually be that way. But there is also a sentence that I must say: The problem of stagnation or blockade in education policy is not located in the Muthgasse near the “Kronen Zeitung”, but in the Lichtenfelsgasse – if you understand what I mean. Mr Mayer of the SPÖ has also done so by saying quite openly that you are in a coalition. [[Intervocations at ÖVP and FPÖ.]] One part tries to climb to the gas pedal and the other, for whatever reason, is a bit on the brake. That's the real problem. But you have also announced that you believe that the time is soon ripe – whatever that will mean – to end in whatever direction, and that there is also more gas in education policy. [[Call the FPÖ:Please no more gas!]] One final sentence: We can also discuss all these advertising provisions. It has been mentioned that it has its own government template for media transparency on the table. Mr Brosz, he is also a media speaker. Only he has to think of one thing: All he asks here is for a Mr Anschober in Upper Austria and also for a Mrs Vassilakou in Vienna – and then such ads will no longer be possible for the Greens in the future, ladies and gentlemen. [[Intervocations at FPÖ and ÖVP.]] Mr Rosenkranz, don't be so excited! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz.]] Your quote speaks for itself, look out on the street, look at your posters, your city lights that you have placed all over! Again, the question would be justified as to how you actually finance it. [[Call the FPÖ:This is our problem, please!]] But there we are again on another subject, namely the Party Finance Act, and there I am very excited about the attitude of the FPÖ, because if someone has something to hide, then that is you!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e14671	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[15:42:18]] The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e14692	I will resume the negotiations on points 6 to 8 of the agenda. Mr Lipitsch came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e14717	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We will return to the subject of family, and I should like to repeat once again, Mrs Kitzmüller, what I have already said in the Committee: We cannot accept the proposal you have applied for today, because that would be a major deterioration. Just as your application reads as it is, it would mean that from an income of €9 000 students would receive half the child allowance, and if they had over €12 000 gross income, they would no longer have to receive or repay child support. Mrs Fürntrath-Moretti has told you that you can earn more than €13 000 in the existing legal model without losing child support. I think we should stick to the model, because it is much better for students, and we do not want to make it worse for them. I would like to agree with Mr Musiol. She said that most of them would have helped families if opportunities were created for students to complete their studies as soon as possible and families were no longer burdened. I believe that this is also our way, because I would just like to point out the 2011 budget accompanying law, where a few hundred million € will be made available to the universities for 2011 and the following years to improve the quality of training, but also the training places. We need to create the foundations for young people to go their way to study as soon as possible. But of course there are also some points that can be really improved. It would be worth noting that we can allow the children's allowance to be paid by the students themselves, who, of course, have to pay for their maintenance. But even with the jobs – we have already heard this today, most of them earn around €300, 400, because it is mostly about lowliness – a social security should be ensured. We must also become more socially just in the field of scholarships. It must not be necessary for a scholarship to depend on whether a tax declaration can be made by each individual or whether I am a payee and there is no possibility of making a design. I do not think we should increase the pressure on students by saying that we are increasing these limits and they should work more to complete their studies, but we must create opportunities for universities to produce graduates who have a high quality and are quick to complete. Then the families will also be relieved early and we will be good people or, I say, high-quality people in our system.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e14768	The next item is Mrs Schenk's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e14789	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In my speech, I refer to our request to the mother-child pass, so to turn it into a parent-youth pass. This request is very important from the point of view of which the previous speakers have already mentioned this. The current form of the mother-child passport no longer meets the requirements; we must make a change there. Development disorders in children and adolescents are becoming increasingly common: in motors, in language, in perception. Neglect and mental disorders result from parents being overwhelmed and can no longer give the children the needed attention. We have now presented in our request a catalogue of claims, which is also obvious and well-known. For example, we demand the annual examination until the end of compulsory schooling – which is a very important point – and it results in free therapies when conspicuousness is detected. We also want to link the payment of family aid to the examinations required in the passport. Although this has been criticized by the Greens, we consider this measure to be important and indispensable, and do not detract from it. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mr Minister, you have spoken today and also in the Committee on our request, and you have done so in a way that would put additional burden on FLAF. We don't see it like that. My colleague, Mr Haubner, has already explained in detail our recovery package on FLAF in her previous speech. The reform package is also in the Committee, should also be discussed there, but unfortunately has been postponed. If I recall the statements made by your Secretary of State in brief yesterday, where he presented the 20-point programme, it is a call for mandatory precautionary examination in compulsory school. That is why I do not understand your rejection, because this is also a request we make, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. However, I would like to take a brief look at the history of this request. We have already submitted this request in a modified form in the summer of 2010. This request was sent back and forth by the Health Committee to the Family Committee, by the Family Committee to the Health Committee, back to the Family Committee. ==References== In June, this request was made once again in the Family Committee. What happened there? He was rejected again because the Family Committee was not the competent body, but the Health Committee, my dear ladies and gentlemen. So I feel like I'm making funny applications to and from here. That can't be the point and purpose of the thing. This is about the matter, and this is an important matter, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mrs Binder-Maier also did not express himself on the content of the Committee, but merely pointed out that the mother-child-pass was the first time. We must change the law so that we can perhaps deal with our proposal in terms of content and perhaps get closer to it. We are, as we have said, dealing with the matter, we are putting the polemics behind it and standing up for the matter. That is why I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen, I cannot imagine – especially since you have come to the point of making a change of law here – that you do not agree with this request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e14884	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e14966	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Aubauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e14987	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! I'm glad we're talking about family! This is an important concern for us. Whoever takes responsibility for the other, who cares for the other, is a family for me. When nursing parents take responsibility for nursing children, then they deserve our respect, and they deserve the best possible framework conditions. [[Complementary of the Abg. Shot helmet]] [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] In order to create these, however, ladies and gentlemen, we need facts. In the individual Länder, nursing parents are insured differently, namely: In Upper Austria care mamas and papas can be employed in an association. They are thus ASVG insured. There is a need for an aptitude test and a parent seminar. – Or, other example: Niederösterreich offers financial security through a care contribution, including pension insurance, plus seminars. - We could go through all the federal states now. Every federal country has different regulations. That is why we have already made a request in the Committee on Economic Affairs to the Minister for Economic Affairs to ask the Minister to bring up the situation of nurses in the various countries through a study. That is important, we need these facts. And on the basis of these data, we will then decide whether and to what extent it makes sense to introduce federal uniform regulations. The subject is dealt with in a serious way, in the interests of families. And – I think you can all agree – in such a complicated and globalized world, family becomes increasingly important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e15039	Mrs Mühlberghuber is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e15060	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! On the further development of the mother-child passport – the BZÖ has now submitted a new application –: The mother-child pass was introduced in 1974, and in the present form it no longer meets the requirements. It is also repeatedly claimed that in Austria, health care is very, very good; however, this is not the case for children and young people. According to the 2010 Child and Youth Report, 20 percent of children and adolescents suffer from obesity or eating disorders, 17.5 percent have chronic diseases, 20 to 25 percent are behavioural and fight with psychosocial problems. Austria's young people are also most often faced with violence by all children across Europe. Children and adolescents are also increasingly affected by developmental disorders – in terms of motorism, language or perception. Sadly, most cases of child abuse take place in their own family. The further development of the mother-child passport, as required in the application, will allow the first signs to be detected in good time and further abuses prevented. We are in favour of extending the mother-child passport to the end of compulsory schooling and also for an annual examination. And we are also in favour of ensuring that the reference of family aid is linked and linked to the implementation of this annual investigation. Experts, such as those in the “Oberösterreichische Nachrichten” (Oberösterreichische Nachrichten), are also greatly neglected by youth health in Austria. The ÖVP also calls for more activity for youth health. Wiener Jugendwälte also believes that the lack of health care for children is embarrassing for our social state. The Committee has already made a number of such requests by my colleague. However, they are repeatedly rejected or postponed, with the excuse – as Mrs. Schenk has mentioned – that the Mother-Child Pass Act must be amended. There is now a new request from the BZÖ and we will see how the government parties will act in the vote. Perhaps it is now possible for them to agree to this request with a new proposal. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e15106	Mrs Schönpass is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e15130	Madam President. Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Austria has high family benefits, and we can be happy about that. Of course, you can always say it's too little. In its application, the BZÖ therefore calls for a federal framework law to implement federal uniform regulations to improve the labour and social security of care parents. This is welcome because nursing parents do valuable educational work for children who cannot grow up in their families of origin for various reasons. Although the Federal Government is responsible for the principle legislation, the countries are responsible for the implementation and execution and thus also the design of the care contracts. In the federal states, different models have been developed to ensure social security for care parents, and the countries are often very dominant. The Federal Ministry of Economic Affairs, Family and Youth has stimulated negotiations to harmonise the payment models, but there was no consensus for financial reasons. A similar request of the BZÖ was made on 8 May. ==References== ==References====External links== In this context, our SPÖ family spokesperson Gabi Binder-Maier submitted, among other things, a five-party resolution request to the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs, Family and Youth to raise the legal and social situation of care families in the individual federal states, in particular with regard to the increased number of cross-country matters and the special situation of nursing parents, for example of disabled children, through a study and to inform the National Council of the results. With regard to the request of the BZÖ concerning the further development of the mother-child passport to a parent-youth passport, it should be noted that the proposed cornerstones are, in our view, very vague, for example, the requirement for a catalogue, which skills would be necessary up to a certain age, or what should be understood by conspicuousities. The mother-child pass is currently being revised and solutions are being sought. It therefore seems useful to us to wait for the results. That is why we reject both requests. Unfortunately, I have not yet read through the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Ursula Haubner because of the short period of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e15176	Mrs Windbüchler-Sushill is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e15197	Madam President. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! ÖVP and SPÖ representatives can always try to speak the 2011 budget accompanying law so beautifully here at the speaker's desk, they won't succeed. It always seems to me that several souls must live in the chest of Minister Mitterlehner, namely, on the one hand his soul as Minister of Economic Affairs, on the other hand his soul as Minister of the Family and on the third side – if there are any – his soul as Minister of Youth. [[Abg. Neubauer: And Upper Austrians!]] Upper Austria – this has been forgotten. Thanks a lot! And energy has also been forgotten. We already have five souls! If certain things, certain acts of law are considered to be good by the Minister of Economic Affairs, then he can make them a minister of youth, so the soul in the head of the minister in the course of the youth debate simply cannot approve them. I can't! The family allowance and its restrictive arrangements and reductions in the 2011 budget accompanying law are the best example. The decisions on cuts in family aid, which were not star hours. There were none, and the Minister knows that too. Every time, when the Greens in particular point out this, the Minister is always happy to twist his eyes. The question is: Does he twist his eyes as a minister of economics or as a minister of youth? – If he twists her as a youth minister, I would expect him to be able to turn it back in the right direction. Mr Fürntrath-Moretti referred first, and I would also like to repeat: 61 percent of students have to work 20 hours a week! If the family allowance is now reduced – and it has been reduced by 1. July 2011 – then this means that the money, which is then no longer available, has to be recovered; which means that students will probably have to work even more in order to be able to really complete their studies and to reach the monthly budget of € 820. This is not regulated, it is completely in the room, how this is to happen, in addition to the discussion on Bachelor's degree and their recognition or non-recognition and how this is somehow going on in the professional life. - That's one. The other is that the family allowance is still not paid directly until now. There was a resolution in 2008 – the request was tabled by Mr Rudas and Mr Fuhrmann at the time – for direct disbursement, which was still in the last legislative period in May. It would now be time, at least, to advance the direct payment here. The resolutions are available. There are possibilities. We need legal framework here at last. The Ökostromgesetz, Mr. Energy Minister – in this case – is now under the umbrella and subject. I assume that you will now act as a youth and family minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e15234	Next speaker: Mr Obernosterer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e15255	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I refer to Mr Haubner's request to transform FLAF into a youth and family centre. As we know, it was 30 and 31. In May of this year, the family benefits were secured by one of the main themes of the government clause. But it is also clear to everyone that, if we want to guarantee family benefits in the future, we need to evaluate FLAF and, of course, we also need to reorganise it, because we no longer do with the employer's payments of 4.5 percent of the wage base on weitem. Approximately €950 million has been allocated annually since 2008. In the administrative field, however, it must be said that very economic work is being done: Of the total, only about 0.5 percent are spent on the administration. The government or the Minister has instructed the IHS to prepare a study, to analyse FLAF, and this should be the basis for drawing up and then implement reform proposals. That is why we cannot accept this request. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e15298	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. A final word on the part of the rapporteurs is not wanted. We shall proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we shall be voting on agenda item 6: Proposal from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of its report 1272 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 7: Proposal from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of its report 1273. Whoever gives him the consent, I'm looking for a sign. – This is, in turn, accepted by the majority. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ursula Haubner, colleague and colleagues on the amendment of the Mother-Child Pass Act. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this. – This request does not find the majority and is therefore rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 8: Proposal from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of its report 1274 of the supplements. I'm looking for an appropriate sign in case of consent. – This request has been accepted by the majority. [[16:05:43]] 9. Point Report of the Education Committee on the Government Template (1209, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the School Organisation Act, the School Teaching Act, the compulsory school maintenance Basic Law and the Higher Education Act 2005 (1265 d.b.) 10. Point Report of the Education Committee on the Government Template (1253, e.g._Other Organiser Agreement pursuant to Article 15a B-VG on the extension of the full-day school forms (1266 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e15387	We shall therefore proceed to points 9 and 10 of the agenda on which the debate will be held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mr Walser is the first to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e15416	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! High house! First of all, let me say a few words about the pangs with which the previous question has been raised. Mrs. Minister! Mr Mayer! It will probably be possible in the Austrian Parliament to ask whether you are dealing with tax money and with costs, as is acceptable to taxpayers. If this is subjective, if it is populist, please, I do not know what these terms are supposed to mean. So far, I have clearly understood something else by populism. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] When I point out that advertising campaigns are used to spread false content, that it is deliberately misinformed to the people if, on a question that was addressed to all ministers, I point out that one makes flights to Alpenrhein and sends himself to the chauffeur for 20 kilometres, then, please, this is the task of an opposition politician and has nothing to do with populism and neglect. I would like to hear from you what I used to say, because the only thing I said about it is that I am poking on an ecological and appropriate use of tax money. - So far to go. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Let us now turn to the points to be discussed. School day care. – Here we have exactly the problem we face very often in politics: Is the glass half full or is it half empty? – We've heard that before. In this case, I must say, once again has been denied a chance. The importance of developing day care in schools is as follows: If we invest such sums here, it would be necessary, from our point of view, to do so with a pedagogical support concept that we in Austria develop school-day forms that focus on restricted teaching, which have a pedagogical concept at the heart of a pedagogical concept, which guarantees that children can learn stress-free, just as it is common in those states, which unfortunately are far, far ahead of Austria. If I hear again and again in this context – and you have also stressed this in the Committee – that the freedom of choice of the parents is in the foreground: Yes, please, where is the freedom of choice of those parents who want such programs? – It is not given in Austria! In Austria, it is possible, even in accordance with the current provisions, Mr. Amon – which is above all your “merit”, under quotation marks – that exactly those parents and those children who want these pedagogical concepts have no chance to access it. [[Abg. Amon: That's why we are expanding it so that freedom of choice...!]] Another point, because we have many representatives of the Public Service Trade Union: I have been waiting for a stir in the face of what is contained in these provisions, namely the development of a educator/a teacher light with two semesters training! We are currently talking about a teacher education, everyone must have masters, the Bachelor needs even eight semesters, and in contrast, today we are presenting this new concept with educators who have only two semesters of training. – On the other hand, do I not hear a cry from those who play otherwise than the protectors of teachers?- Oh, my God! But this would be necessary, because this is an absolute misdevelopment. In future, we will have teachers who will not even be able to help the children who care for them in the afternoon because of the regulations. Explain Please do so to the taxpayers who have to pay for these educators! If this is a reasonable system, You present us here, I don't know. [[Abg. Amon: Do you also have a suggestion?]] – Yes, we have proposals, Mr Amon! If you had listened to the committee, we would have presented it there. We have the proposal to train all teachers at Master's level and to take them to a limited level. I am also referring to this when I say that all teachers must stay at school longer, and I hope that in the current negotiations for a new teacher service and remuneration right to these concepts you will also go into a little bit, because that will be the starting point if we continue with the Austrian school system in the future or not. Unfortunately, we cannot accept these proposals, which are presented in the motions for resolutions before us.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e15487	Next speaker: Mr Mayer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e15509	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to say quite clearly at the beginning: The goal of all of us, I believe, is a high-performance and promising school for all. I've already said it today and repeat it again: It is the often required big throw with just one package so not feasible. All those who are critical of education policy know this too well. What you can do is try to get step by step where we all want to go. This red thread is recognizable. We are working on the fact that no child is left behind and that all young people can actually benefit from their opportunities, because we know that education is the key to a future in prosperity – for the individual, but also for society as a whole. Today’s steps, Mr Walser – and I am unfortunately completely different – are another important milestone there. We're doing everything you can. We know the structures, we know the problems in the field of education in the administration. We can't say: Because we know these problems because we are a federal state, we do nothing at all! – The government takes in €80 million annually, a total of €320 million, which invests in day-to-day care, in a concept that offers sustainable quality and meets regional needs. [[Abg. Dr. Walser: Teachers light! Two semesters training!]] The minister achieves an article-15a agreement for a mega-project with signatures of all nine national leaders in an absolutely short time – and you as a critical observer, who not only claims but also knows what that means, find no positive word for what it really is for an important milestone for day-to-day care! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] It is very important, Mr Walser, that you do not refuse to do so. I don't know why. They suddenly play the populist, the oppositionists who no longer respond to content. I don't know why, but I'm sorry. You'd be invited to join us. As a school teacher, as a teacher, as one who has to do with school all day long, you need to know that there are a lot of areas in the school for which there is no need for a Bachelor and no Master with God, for which well-trained caregivers are needed, such as teachers, sports guards in clubs, choir leaders in clubs and many others. All these persons are now invited to enter through an additional pedagogy and to take over care tasks in a restricted form during a full-day form. For support in the afternoon, leisure, while part of the students are for example in football training or music lessons, not everyone must be a master, a doctor or a professor. This can also be done in an association of high quality. However, I would be very strongly opposed to saying that the kindergarten does not need it either. This is the other area where we need trained people. But for the afternoon, for the leisure area, a so-called leisure education should also be sufficient. It's probably a niche that you fill out. This guarantees that we will not only bring the money on rail, these € 320 million in the next four years, for the federal states that are required, but also a new training model, the so-called leisure education, for which the framework conditions can be decided today. This would be a way of actually enabling a full day-limited form to have staff for it. That is why I invite you to take this important step. I mean, you'd do something good with that. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e15551	Mr Amon has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e15573	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I don't understand you today either, Dr. Walser. [[Abg. That's nothing new!]] You are certainly someone who can judge things in terms of content, in fact, so I do not only understand your critical attitude in this package which is now under discussion, but I do not understand the Greens at all why they cannot support this proposal. You've listed what you want. You have said that you wish for real freedom of choice, so also for those who want to have children in full-day care. – But that’s our goal! That's what we're working on! [[Abg. Dr. Walser: You know it doesn't work! You know that very well!]] It is so, you know, Josef Pröll has still released and made available €80 million annually as Minister of Finance; Mr Mayer has already referred to this. In total, this is now € 320 million for afternoon care, which can be offered in different forms, namely in the restricted form, but also in the form that it is a classic afternoon care and not class in the afternoon. Both can be offered. We have ensured that the opening number is reduced – from 15, if necessary, to 12 – so that there can be an offer wherever there is demand. We have ensured that school holders can offer such a care offer across-the-board so that we can also motivate smaller school locations to participate in it. We have ensured that it will be possible to make such an offer available across-the-board. Now to practice criticism at a university course for leisure education, to say that would be like something bad – apologies?- Oh, my God! That's a more quality, that's a More training and no less. That is why I do not understand at the best of my will, Dr. Walser, why you cannot support the Greens' proposals which are now under discussion. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] In addition, I would like to stress that because Mr Mayer also mentioned this, it is really remarkable at what time it was possible to reach an agreement with the federal states, conclude an Article 15a agreement and thus have everyone in the boat. It is simply not understandable to me why the Greens are able to make adjustments to this solution, which is still intended to ensure that the money does not have to go exclusively to the staff, but also that the locations are given the opportunity to make adaptations in order to create suitable rooms – we will still be able to bring in a resolution to ensure that these expansions are also barrier-free – are not able to go along. This is an absolutely destructive attitude. Obviously, it is not right for us to move forward in education policy, that we agree that we are not fighting, but that we are trying to get good solutions on the way. It would actually be high at the time when the Greens are constructively involved here, Dr. Walser. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Finally, I would like to say that I only had the opportunity to address it in the form of calls for call: If Dieter Brosz now requires government members to disclose their entire dates, only because the Greens are interested in what dates a member of the Austrian Federal Government is going to complete in the federal states, that is – you are apologising! – Methods that can only be rejected. But you can go ahead with good example. It can reveal to the entire green club all its dates if you believe that this is necessary to determine whether tax funds are also used meaningfully.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e15635	Mr. Dr. Rosenkranz is the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e15656	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Agenda items 9 and 10 are about expanding all day care. All day care is simple in the life of the 21st century. ==References====External links== Mr Walser now has the idea of restricted teaching out of his small ideological box. That means that the child must be in school from early to late, under state control, under state educational supervision and education. We have another model, we want to offer freedom of choice. In other words, parents should have the possibility that children will also be cared for in the afternoon in order to be able to pursue a job, but it will still have to be assured and guaranteed that even parents can help their children in the exercise of the house. That's our family picture. We do not say that the state has control from the cradle to the Bahre. That's what they're doing. Systems to which you are obviously supporting or which you have now recognized for Austria. In fact, I would like to have it used and to address the content of the government proposals we agree with in the debate. The aim is to create a framework for the provision of educational services across schools and to reduce the minimum number from which such a group can be formed from 15 to 12. This means flexibilisation according to regional possibilities. The countries are involved, therefore also the rapid agreement between the federal states. The problem has been recognized, the problem solution has been correctly recognized. Now on the question of pedagogical care, on these leisure education. The choice of words may not really be the best, we have discussed that in committee, but it has not found any other word. The fact is: It doesn't need a university professor, a master, a bachelor for every activity. With regard to kindergartens, I would like to inform Mr Mayer: For the care of children, excellent training will be necessary for kindergarten teachers. I would like to mention this again in detail, because we want male candidates in these areas of education in future, because this is also very important for socialisation. As has been said, we want to allow freedom of choice. Interestingly, it was the social democrats who, after the monarchy, abolished all day care, because they said – especially with regard to Vienna – that children need to be socialized not only in the school-class association, but their age group accordingly elsewhere: in the neighborhood, in the environment, in the courtyard, in the municipal building, wherever. Other contacts must also be made. Now there will be just a few sports clubs, involving cultural associations or local music schools, of course with easier access, opportunities to achieve or to be used for the corresponding educational maturity. We believe that these government proposals, using the appropriate means, are suitable to meet the appropriate needs in the regions. The possibility is given to the federal legislator, the implementation is of course ultimately also with the municipalities. I believe that the armor is given, and that is why we will agree.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e15701	Next speaker: Mrs Haubner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e15723	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Today, an announcement you made almost a year ago, namely that day care is so important to you that money has to be taken into control that needs to be expanded, will finally be implemented. The funds are available. They want to increase the number of care places – if the number is right – from 105 000 to 160 000. We from BZÖ believe that we need more offers in day care. This is of course because the working and living world has also changed over the last decades, because many women are also employed, parents are not always at home and can take care of the children's learning success. Therefore: more offers. It is particularly important to us that, as stated in § 2 of the relevant government paper, day care can also be carried out in a restricted form if necessary, and above all the voluntary nature; Voluntaryness means that offers are available and parents can decide what they are doing. That's the right way. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Today, we have also talked about childcare facilities and about what I believe to be an undisputed last mandatory year, but I believe that it should not be all mandatory, but the parents must also be involved as an important partner in out-of-home care. And that's what I wish for all day care: that you don't leave your parents outside and say: We'll do everything for you! I am now thinking of an educational partnership between parents and those educators responsible for day care. In principle, it is also positive from our point of view that there is now the opportunity to improve the learning success of young people through more day care. In other words, the weaker, who need special support, need support lessons, can be offered in day-to-day care. Similarly, those who are particularly gifted, especially qualified, can be motivated into new ideas, which they can also implement. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] According to the figures of Statistics Austria, 27 percent of pupils are currently at risk, the number of 15 to 19-year-olds will decrease by 2020, and there will be a minus of 65,000 young people. That is why we need to train the less-favoured young people we have so well so that they really have a chance, but also valuable professional employees in the future. Look You are also looking at the figures that have been distributed in the media a few days ago, which is spent at remedial costs! A total of €127 million is paid by the parents for further assistance this year. – There is something that cannot be voted on, and politics must also give an answer to that! And one of the answers is hopefully a corresponding day care. It's not going to be alone, of course. For me it is almost strange that you already spend an average of € 681 for folk students and € 578 for primary students. So we really have to think about what else to improve and change in the quality of teaching. For us, therefore, a good overall pedagogical concept for day care is also important. A concept is taken up in the government template, which is appropriate to those who have problems, but also those who are particularly gifted. What is also important to us – and this is also provided in the government template, but you will see in practice how it works – is a wide range of leisure activities, especially a comprehensive range in the field of movement and sport. We all know that children are getting more vulnerable, more and more immobile, because they are sitting more than moving. I believe that these deficits could be very well countered. Especially in rural areas, cooperation with associations, with local organizations that involve young people from home, is also a major concern for us. It is important to use their resources. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] For educational support in the afternoon we need the best educators. It must not be so that, especially when it comes to individual learning time, but also to day care, it is only the boys who are obliged, as it is now. Sometimes the case is, and the elderly leave out. The boys still have to work up, so to speak, then they have a chance for a fixed job – I don't think so. I believe that we need the competence of experienced teachers in good day-care; therefore, there must be no difference. I now see a two-class society among the teachers: the one that does day care, and the other who are in the teaching time. Mrs. Federal Minister, I very much hope that you will also have an eye on the fact that this development does not go so far and, above all, that this will also be provided for in the law of the service, for whoever has a educational education – whether he uses it in the afternoon in the individual learning time or in the morning – is equally valuable and has to be evaluated. With regard to leisure education – I do not want to overestimate it now –: I can imagine that this is a small niche, a supplement if there are no other possibilities in cooperation with associations and organizations on the spot, but I am now saying: Mr Walser is right. You really have to look at what comes out of it. We must not go in one direction at a time, that we have three classes. So the last word is certainly not yet spoken. At any rate, we will agree to this government proposal because it basically contains a lot of positive things that we can and want to represent in terms of education policy. However, this must not be deceiving – and it has already been partly a great joy among the government parties today – that the government and you, Mrs. Federal Minister, are, of course, still far away from the big solutions. I know you always have to think in small steps and take a first step, but with the big solutions, such as the school administration reform, the “service law new”, the depoliticization of the bodies, you have – I say now – partially resigned. So there's still a standstill. I think this initial funding for quality day care is correct and good, but it alone is not a school reform.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e15817	It has now come up with Mrs. Federal Minister Dr. Schmied's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e15838	Madam President. High house! After these speeches, I am now very pleased to have the expected great approval of the collections and of the Article-15a agreement. It is very important that decisions be taken now, because the development of full-day offers is primarily in the interest of parents. I do not think we can start implementation early enough in this regard. I am very much with you, Mrs Haubner, as regards the important points of implementation. It was now enormously hard to complete the Article 15a agreement in time. But it is at least so much work that this project actually arrives in the classrooms. So the implementation, I think, will be very important. As regards quality criteria, one point must be taken into account: We have concluded the Article 15a agreements with the federal states. The students are the municipalities, the cities. In other words, we now have to go into concrete action with the mayors, the mayors. There's still a lot to be done in preparation, in communication. If I may say this from my point of view: I think it is important that we make the most of the regional offers: Sports clubs, music schools, cultural initiatives. If it becomes possible to make the offer of leisure education more attractive for the children, for the students and for the students, while at the same time securing qualifications through vocational training in the educational universities, this is a good way. I think it is an important step that offers can now also take place across schools, so that we are now starting a little bit to overcome borders through cooperation. They have already mentioned the minimum group size with twelve children, which is particularly beneficial for rural areas. However, we will certainly have to have a discussion with this project earlier. That's the subject of explosive division. Because if we really take the freedom of choice of the parents seriously now, then we will at least discuss this issue on the part of the federal government, and at least we will have to exempt the countries from it, because we have to implement and live the freedom of choice. But we have already discussed in the teaching committee, Mr Rosenkranz, that this is certainly a subject that the parent will now address to us. I thank you for the very constructive discussion in the teaching committee. Perhaps it is still considering the Parliamentary Group of the Greens. It is an important step, especially in the present time, for working parents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e15890	Now comes Mrs Mag. Rudas. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e15911	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, At the beginning, Dr. Walser asked a real question, namely that you should ask yourself permanently: Is the glass half empty or half full? – I think, especially in the field of education, especially in the school system, the question is relatively easy to answer, because the glass was empty for decades and is now continuously being filled thanks to Mrs Claudia Schmied. All the measures we decide here, all the measures we have discussed in the Committee – from the modular upper level to full-day care, to the expansion of the New Secondary School and other things – are always an improvement – an improvement that would have been unimaginable in the last decades. I believe it is important that we continue this educational reform together and fill the glass together, even if it will not be equally full from one day to the next. It is of course always important for me as a Social Democratic to ask the question of justice: Does it lead to more justice? Mrs Haubner has already explained here how much parents spend on recovery and how unfair the system is. That is why, for me, the expansion of all day schools is also a step towards greater justice. I understand the criticism that it is not going fast enough; I always join myself, because everything could always go faster. But I think the expansion day care improves the school system, and I therefore ask the Greens to agree. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e15953	The next item is the statement by Mr Deputies on jewelry miners. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e15975	Madam President. Appreciate Mrs Minister! Mrs Rudas, if you are complaining about the school system over the last decades, I would ask you to take care of it, because there are some here in plenary, which would then, as it were, be bad products of this school system. And I don't think our education is so bad. We can point to a well-founded, completed education. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I believe that the expansion of school day care is particularly important in order to take account of the current requirements. One important point for us was the creation of a higher education course for and the training of leisure education. There is provision for precise training arrangements, especially the recognition of previous training. I would particularly like to mention the sports sector, where we have an institute with the Bundessportsakademie, through which we can offer very well-founded trainings. In this context, however, it should also be noted that the framework agreement between the Federal Ministry of Education, the Federal Ministry of Defence and Sport as well as the Federal Sports Organisation, which called for this cooperation between school and sport and the improvement of student movement offers – in the quantitative field of day care, but also with strong participation of the sports clubs. We must not forget one thing: We have a great danger in our youth. I would like to describe them with the words “fat, lazy and addictive”. 40 percent of local students make less than one hour of movement a day. Movement and sport are not only important for health, but also promote cognitive achievements. And we need to address this problem in the area of day care. We do just that by taking in the clubs, because if we had only one day's care at school until 4 p.m., we would no longer get the young people out into the clubs. I think it is precisely this permeability to get on the one hand well-trained people from various areas into school, on the other hand, but also to get the young people into the clubs, whether this is music, creative or sports, that is very important for our society. It is mainly sports clubs that, with their countless volunteers and supporters of our youth, can give essential things along the way, because education is also a life support and the initiation of life's motives. And above all, the motive “without labor no price” should be held high today, and especially the meaning of self-responsibility. Especially in the field of personal health, the personal performance is the active introduction into society particularly important. And what you learn from clubs in particular is acceptance of social orders, game rules and framework conditions. That is why we are taking an important step in the right direction with this novel.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e16029	Mrs Mag. Lohfeyer is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e16050	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The new law today addresses the lack of day care in public compulsory schools and AHS. This decision is also a very important step for rural regions, because the rural structures still lack public offers for full-day support. In Salzburg, for example, in the current school year, only 7 percent of compulsory students are in full-day care. The Federal Government undertakes to provide the necessary funds to the countries by means of an Article 15a agreement, with the current innovations, to provide funds for the extension and extension of the existing provision of care, the implementation of leisure education and a corresponding course at the educational universities. A total of €80 million per year for personnel costs, but also for infrastructure measures, will be available by the year 2014. The fact is that there is an urgent need to provide full-day support with a warm, healthy lunch. More quality education for children, such as support for learning and domestic exercises, such as promoting social skills and meaningful leisure activities, is a priority. Today's decision to expand day-to-day care also supports municipalities and school-keepers to offer cross-Community day care involving regional sports, movement and cultural services. Ladies and gentlemen! I mean, it's our job to create legal foundations to help parents get young people from small to a good basic knowledge and support on the way to a bearing personality, regardless of origin, religion, educational status and social status. Our decision today is a very important contribution to this and another mosaic of Mrs Schmied's ambitious educational reform.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e16091	Mr Huainigg has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e16112	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! High house! Afternoon care is an important extension of the school's offer, which I very much welcome. For me, it is obvious that disabled children also have the same opportunities as children who are not disabled. Afternoon care at special schools is available; therefore many parents of disabled children give their children in special schools because there is an afternoon care there. I believe that with the new afternoon care, the provision for disabled children will also be extended in the regular schools, and that equality for children who go into integration classes will also be brought about. Financial resources are available here. Each group gets 8 000 €, that's a computer value. A group will need less money, another group will need more money – such as groups visiting disabled children with special educational needs. I believe that this compensation must be found here. The new 15a agreement also provides for cooperation between schools. It should also be possible, for example, that a special school should cooperate with a regular school in the afternoon care and, for example, that children who attend the special school should also come to regular school care in the afternoon or vice versa. Infrastructural measures are available from €50 000 to €52 000 per group. It is important to me that we pay attention to accessibility when it is extended. That is why, together with my colleague, Königsberger-Ludwig, I would like to ask the Minister to respect accessibility and to put forward a motion for a resolution to that effect. I can't read it myself and write texts because I'm severely handicapped. That is why I am a little advertising for my great cell phone, a cell phone assistant who reads the motion for a resolution. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] The speaker's mobile phone submits the text of the motion for a resolution: The Members who have been signed shall make the following: [[Quoted print version removed]] The technology makes it possible. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Let me briefly mention two points. Firstly, the continuation of school integration after the eighth level. It's been sent in review. But I hope that discussions will be held here, because I think this should be extended. It is necessary to develop a stage plan so that not only the ninth level is included in it, the one-year schools, but also the two- to three-year schools, such as trade schools or agricultural schools. A second point that matters to me is that disabled people can also become teachers. I think it is essential that we open the educational universities, that someone sitting in the wheelchair can become a teacher, or if he is blind or deaf. This is a way to equality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e16197	The application is properly filed and is also under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e16249	Next speaker: Mrs Ablinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e16270	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! First of all, I would like to thank the honourable Member, Mr Huainigg, for the clear example of accessibility. That's cool, an interesting example. Mr Walser, I would like to comment on your comments, and I should like once again to take up Mrs Minister's request that perhaps you should give yourself a back. I do not understand your negative point of view, because it is not understandable to me. What is it about today? – We have an expansion of all day care forms with a plus of 55 000 places. Each year, the federal government makes 80 million available for this, and this is to be secured by Article 15a contracts. Both forms are possible: limited or just classic day care. - You refuse. For comparison: There is an increase in the childcare of under three years olds, there is a start-up funding, there is an Article-15a agreement and money made available by the federal government to ensure that something is done accordingly. – The Greens have rightly demanded this over and over again, and they have said that this is to continue. So there is an initial funding, an article-15a agreement for schoolchildren and there they are available for under three years. Why one is good and the other is bad, escapes my logic. To that extent, I really want to propose once again – I am glad that we finally decide by a large majority –: Maybe you'll give yourself a back and see that that's actually what you're always asking for. Finally, I would add something that I wish I would: There is a cooperation with regard to sport, which is accordingly enshrined in a significant remark. I believe that this would also be very important for cooperation with music schools, so that, on the one hand, the level we have in Upper Austria will be able to keep, on the other hand, to expand overall It is possible to This is why cooperation is important for afternoon care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e16315	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Rasinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e16337	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! The extension of day care is useful. – As a doctor, I'll probably surprise you, but I'll draw attention to this: There is a study of German pediatricians – it was first published yesterday – which says that in the last ten years the German pediatricians have observed that the children are getting sicker – more overweight, less exercise, the number of mental diseases also increases. They say that the children move too little and sit in an average of four hours in front of the TV, and the Internet is still coming in. And this makes the children partially inconsistency and also in peril. We also see this in the Austrian practices: Children today are slightly different from in the past, especially in the urban area, where schizophrenia and depression also occur much more frequently in children. Therefore, structured day care for those who need it is very, very important. Faith You're telling me: Every euro we invest in is a well-invested euro, including from the point of view of health policy!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e16367	Mrs Mag. Mr Fuhrmann is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e16388	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! My previous speaker, Mr Rasinger, also made it quite clear how important it is to have qualified afternoon care in particular. The fact that there is a demand for care in the population and this is increasing is due to the professional situation of mother and father. I think it was a long time ago that a solution was found here – and this has happened very quickly – with the federal states. In addition, this measure is also an important point which is enshrined in the government programme. And I would already think that this is also an important step in education policy and in the development of the school system in the coming years. I would like to know – and this is also mentioned by the way – that we could also set up many other laws so quickly, so uncomplicated and, above all, with the approval of this majority. In other cases, this is much more difficult. I am all the more sorry that the Greens do not join this. The money is available. We have created various possibilities of the process. For support groups from 15 students – an exception, if there are smaller groups of students or small schools, it is also possible to cross-school. A new job is created with leisure education, leisure education and training. It has even succeeded in including the music schools and the sports clubs. So I think everyone who is somehow affected here has been involved, and on the other hand, there is great satisfaction. There is actually no obvious reason why you can be against this. I would think it would be reasonable to accept this proposal for a law.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e16431	Mrs Franz has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e16452	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! High house! Yeah, we've heard a lot. We also know that there is a growing need for and demand for daily schooling. That is why we create framework conditions so that they can also be better, especially in better quality. I am particularly pleased that the group size can be reduced to twelve. Minister, thank you very much. This helps us in rural areas, because it is often a pity if groups fail because too few children are. We also benefit from the second fact that school-type and school-holder groups can be formed across borders. This means, for example, that children from a folk school can be taken from a secondary or primary school in this afternoon care, but children from two communities can also be taken together in the care of a community. In my opinion, the new professional image of leisure education is very good. It is an improvement and not a deterioration, Mr Walser. It is good that the clubs can be included. We have very good associations in rural areas, but also in cities. It is nice when offers are made in the creative, musical field, for example in the theatre game in collaboration with clubs, which then contribute to a better quality of day care. I am glad that the offer of day care in schools is enhanced and that quality is also improved.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e16489	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Rosenkranz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e16511	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! I am pleased about the broad consensus – the Greens too can consider approval, because this measure is for regionalization, even school autonomy at the sites, and you can see what the individual schools can do. And these are in themselves demands from you. But: Unfortunately, where much light is and much is expanded, something is also closed. I therefore propose the following motion for a resolution, which has also been adopted by the Lower Austrian Parliament, with the votes of the liberals who were the applicants but also ÖVP and SPÖ:
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e16559	The motion for a resolution has been tabled and will be part of the debate. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e16632	No one has made any mention of this. I therefore conclude the debate. A final word by the rapporteur is not required. We shall come to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 9: Draft federal law, which amends the School Organisation Act, the School Education Act, the compulsory school maintenance Basic Law and the Higher Education Act 2005, including the title and entry into 1265 of the Supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give him the consent to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever gives his approval to this draft law at third reading, I ask for a sign. – In turn, this is the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Huainigg, Mr Königsberger-Ludwig, colleagues on accessibility and integration. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to give a sign. – This request was adopted unanimously. (E 184.) We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Dr Rosenkranz, colleagues and colleagues on Sparhammer meets military academy in Wiener Neustadt. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who are in favour of this motion for a resolution, are a sign. – This request does not find the majority and is therefore rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 10: Request by the Teaching Committee to grant approval in 1253 of the Supplements to the conclusion of the present agreement in accordance with Article 15a B-VG. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this to give a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. [[17:00:27]] 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report of the Education Committee on the Government Template (1256, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Federal Law on the Legal Personality of Religious Confessions (1267 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e16727	We're on our way to the 11th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. We are going into the debate. First of all, Mr. Dr. Walser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e16757	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! High house! The present draft law is an attempt to respond to a knowledge of the Constitutional Court in such a way that a law-compliant state is created. – But from our point of view, that is not the case. [[President Neugebauer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Currently, there are 13 or 16 recognized religious communities in Austria – there are different numbers. In 2010, the Constitutional Court challenged the underlying law of 1997 as unconstitutional. What is now present – I am sorry to have to say that in this clarity – is a Husch-Pfusch law, which has even come upon vehement rejection at the Federal Chancellor's Office's Constitutional Service. In addition, the Constitutional Service – I quote – complains: ‘The short-term assessment period of little more than three weeks shall be subject to a well-founded discussion of the draft.’ Unfortunately, we can see that when we read the other opinions on this law. The religious communities concerned, for example, are saying – I also quote here – that this is the “unseemly attempt at minimal correction”. It is also complained that there would be an “inadequately large room for interpretation” for the cultument, and that legal theologians of the University also vehemently object and complain – I quote –: It is a return to the system of the state church of 19th century. ==References== In my view, these are devastating judgments, and I cannot understand, honestly, why they have shown such a hurry here. Even what is described as positive, for example, that there is now a certain guarantee of stocks for already recognized religious communities, which is quite clear in our mind, is quite questionable. In doing so, it is referred to § 11a of the Law, which states that “the criteria for lifting are those for recognition. ” – So we actually have the same legal status that we have had. From our point of view, it is also completely incomprehensible how one can construct such a complex system as one can construct religious communities, communities of confession with so different rights. In the future, churches will be divided into seven different classes in Austria – please imagine! – of religious communities such as the Catholic Church, the law of Israel, i.e. the Jewish religious community, the Islamic-hanephitic rite and so on! These are all religious communities with their own special laws. That's, like, top. And at the very end are those religious communities, which are primarily understood as a confession. Atheists, agnostics and so on are excluded anyway; there is no talk of belief communities at all. Of a modern law – I'm sorry to have to say that – you really can't talk about it. For us, therefore, an agreement has never been reached. The aim of such a law should be to have equal opportunities for all religious communities. The aim should be to ensure state neutrality towards religious communities and churches. Unfortunately, you are far away from that.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e16830	Next speaker: Mr Sacher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e16852	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! We have a subject matter here, but I would nevertheless like to say to my previous speaker: He is obviously on the critical wave today; in my opinion, he overstates the problems too much. Ladies and gentlemen! The diversity of religious confessions has increased with the development and changes of our modern society. Confessions that were not yet represented in our cultural area a few years or decades ago have today taken a foothold – in various sizes, structure and teaching. By the end of September this year, it is considered as a condition for a state recognition that a religious community must have passed through 20 years. This rule, as we have already heard, has been repealed by the Constitutional Court as too general and not sufficiently factually differentiated, after the European Court of Human Rights has already made a statement in this regard in 2008. There is therefore a need for action – we are under time pressure, Mr Walser – for Parliament, otherwise all non-recognisable religious groups would have the right to be recognized within a single year from October this year. A year, that would really be a far too short time to be able to assess a confession before its public recognition. With a view to determining the number of members of a Community, data not always secured are available. Therefore, the number of members must be demonstrated by a religious community. On the criticism of the review procedure, which you, Mr Walser, have referred to: The regulation on a minimum number has already passed and remains unchanged in the new law. The scheme is called 2 Promills, converted to Austria about 16,000 members. This was recognised by the Constitutional Court as conforming to the Constitution, and thus the complaints of some religious communities, such as the Evangelic Christians, the Free Christian Community, the Seventh-Day Adventists and others, were opposed to this rejection, because they were based on constitutional law. In addition to the question of the number of members, the law will put much more emphasis on the international involvement of a community of faith in the context of its religious teaching. It is therefore necessary to assess whether the criterion of organisational and international involvement in teaching can be applied or accepted. This fact was also brought in very critically by several parties on the basis of comments made in the review procedure, but this is clarified in the explanations. Ladies and gentlemen! The purpose of the new regulation is, in particular, to examine the religious community in the country in which it is to be recognized, i.e. in Austria, before public recognition. This has also been recognised by the European Court of Human Rights as a legitimate law of a state. Given the problem of various sects and possibly dubious communities, I think that this is a safeguard measure – a measure that can only be represented. The new regulation creates more transparency from our point of view, also creates greater legal certainty, for example, that there is a modest recognition or recognition of what has not been the case so far. Summary: We thus create greater legal certainty, greater transparency. And in this sense there is a well-needed law, although it was created under time pressure. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e16925	Next speaker: Mr Petzner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e16946	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! In short, because you can really make it relatively easy: This does not create legal certainty. One can already philosophise about the advantages of this law or the corrections made, only the problem is: If the Constitutional Court takes this up again, we do not need to talk about legal certainty here. But that is exactly what the VfGH will do, and that is why we reject it. Mr Walser has already quoted the opinion of the Constitutional Service of the Federal Chancellery, where the constitutional conformity is explicitly challenged. After you've done nothing for a long time, you've been overly quick to implement it. The Constitutional Service of the Federal Chancellor's Office expressed serious concerns as to whether this correction is constitutional. The starting point was a knowledge of the Constitutional Court of Justice of the 25th century. It is based on a decision of the European Court of Human Rights on September 2010. This correction does not take into account the jurisdiction of the Supreme Courts, but we will have to make a further correction in a few months or in one or two years, because the new regulation will not have been observed. And that is precisely the reason, ladies and gentlemen, why we reject this and do not accept this government proposal or this federal law. The only thing that needs to be noted positively and even if a correction is to remain in it is that religious denominations can now be dissolved again and the status can also be recognized. If I look at so many so-called religious denominations, I mean that this is certainly not the worst decision. But that's the only positive thing. As has been said, this arrangement will not be held before the Supreme Court. The whole work is for the fish’. So let's do something right now and start from the beginning! Let's make a right law and let's decide this right here – and not a hush-fush-work that doesn't hold!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e16995	Next speaker: Mr Amon. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e17016	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Petzner, it is of course difficult: If one hears criticism of a legislative work and then the government parties make a provision or a law in the constitutional rank with the help of an opposition party, it is very often criticized that this is not actually a clean legislation, because then, like the Supreme Court, the Constitutional Court is deprived of the possibility to actually review the law. Now we have the exact opposite case: At that time, when we established the Federal Law on Religious Confessions, we had the situation that there was only the recognition law, a very old law, which simply granted to all groups very comprehensive legal personality, the status of a public law agency, tax privileges et cetera. We actually wanted to avoid, in the creation of the Federal Law on Religious Confessions, that there is a totally disorderly wild growth of groups that are driving their beings under the guise of religion. Even at the time, there was criticism that the law may be unconstitutional or even illegal. Therefore, we have even taken provisions from the Convention on Human Rights into the Federal Law on Religious Confessions literally, although the Federal Government had the constitutional majority at that time, it has simply been regulated by law because we wanted to remain open to the awareness that the review by the Constitutional Court and the European Court of Human Rights is possible. And the law has kept it, Mr Petzner! Individual provisions have been questioned. These are now being repaired. I think that this is actually a very good law, because it ensures on the one hand that freedom of religion is guaranteed – that must be so – and because On the other hand, we also ensure that we do not get wild growth of sects and groups that, under the requirement of wanting to move in the metaphysical field, do not treat people in the sense of human rights. That this is not possible, I believe, is now ensuring with this law. This law is not a Husch-Fuch-Action, but a good law, which – and the changes are not so comprehensive – was in consideration and which has gone through a proper parliamentary process. As said, this is not a Husch-Puff action, but a good law that guarantees free religious exercise on the one hand and on the other hand prevents it from coming to an entirely irregular wild growth of sects and pseudoreligious groups.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e17064	Next speaker: Mr Rosenkranz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e17086	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Well, it's true, the law has been relatively short in the review, but the facts are not in themselves so complicated that with some mental flexibility one cannot recognize one or the other. In any case, it has been possible for us from the FPÖ to recognize that it is not unconstitutional, but that differences are factually justified. I am thinking, in particular, of the consequences of recognition towards religious education to be paid by the State. That means that the state has an objective opportunity. On the criticism practiced by the Federal Chancellor's Office's Constitutional Service, where it is said that the legal system had worked dirtyly, that it had been apostrophic, that the citation rules had not been followed, that it would have been a different word, for example, "from", better: These are not really great criticisms that are cited here! Religious freedom is not attacked in any way. If someone believes that he wants to embrace any tree or similar every night or other when for religious purposes, then that's him. So everyone can exercise their religion freely. But the state protects itself by the rule that between 16 000 and 17 000 members should be present and that such a religious exercise must take place. That's enough. It is clear, however, that a certain demarcation should be made to sects or to small groups of accidents, because other state consequences are linked to them. We therefore believe that this law is correct. It is even an extension in this law by considering that religious communities from other parts of the earth, from other regions that have been in existence for a very long time, can be adopted much easier. However, on the question of whether to list a number of digits or whether to list it with letters, which the Constitutional Service has missed out on, I do not see a problem. There was the question, or some uncertainty, of what happens when recognized religious communities fall below the limit of 2 promills. But this is clearly excluded. Now it is true that a drop below this limit can never lead to an abolition and resolution. That's why we agree.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e17131	Now Mrs. Federal Minister Dr. Schmied is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e17152	Mr President. High house! I think that this law is a consistent solution in line with the European Court of Human Rights. I would also like to refer to the starting point, to the Federal Law on the Personality of Religious Confessions from 1998, which essentially describes and defines two different types of legal status: the position as – under quotations – “only” religious community, which one can acquire relatively easily, and the second category, namely the question of legal recognition, which has important consequences from a state point of view, such as religious teaching in schools. In this case, the stock and financial basis of the Community must be ensured. The Confession Community Act regulates this through indicators. I would like to underline what Mr Amon has already stressed: that nothing has been changed in the minimum number of members defined in 1998 and that this provision has already been reviewed by the Constitutional Court and has also been recognised as a constitutional form. Adjustments are related to the rules already mentioned by Mr Sacher in detail as regards the time of the stock, and I repeat that we are in line with the idea, the suggestions, the needs of the European Court of Human Rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e17186	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Lettenbichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e17207	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! This discussion has once again shown how difficult it is to create a spatula in order to cover as many interests as possible. On the one hand, one is exposed to criticism that one creates too strict conditions of access and thus prohibits new religious communities from being recognized, and on the other hand, one must of course be careful not to allow dubious associations such as sects to have too easy access. I do not know how you did, but in the past few days I have been confronted by representatives of the Free Churches with their concerns, and a critical point in this was – as already mentioned in the discussion today – the duration of the review process. To this end, it should be noted that a six-week period is common, but not mandatory. However, since this amendment is only a one-and-a-half-page text passage, the time limit of 26 days seems sufficient to me. There have always been concerns and concerns about the issue of recognition for religious communities with insufficient membership. The law, as we have heard, provides for 2 promills of the total population. However, we also need to know that complaints have been rejected at the Constitutional Court, but are now pending at the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. It is clear, ladies and gentlemen: No church or religious community will be deprived of recognition because it can no longer have sufficient membership or has made a statuary mistake. Finally, it should be noted that some changes have been made to the draft assessment. We have found by this law, I believe, a means which is sensible and good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e17249	There are no further words available to this effect. I therefore conclude the debate. We shall now proceed to the vote. Vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 1256 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who want to give their approval to this draft at third reading too, for a sign on this point. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[17:22:13]] 12. Point Report by the Teaching Committee on Amendment No 1542/A by Mrs Elmar Mayer, Mr Werner Amon, Mr MBA, colleagues concerning a Federal Act amending the Federal Law on External Legal Relations of the Greek-Oriental Church in Austria (1268 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e17308	I'll call 12. Agenda item. The debate opens up to Mr Mayer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e17332	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! On the novel to the Federal Law on the External Legal Relations of the Greek-Oriental Church in Austria a few remarks. The Orthodox churches have been established and recognized in Austria for more than 250 years. Originally, it was mostly Greeks who had emigrated or fled from the Ottoman Empire. Today the Serbian community with more than 100,000 followers alone is the most important group in Vienna. I have looked at the structure of orthodoxy in Austria a little closer and I have found the following churches: Greek-Oriental Church of the Holy Trinity, Greek-Oriental Church of St. George, Serbian-Greek-Oriental Church of Saint Sava, Romanian-Greek-Oriental Church for the Holy Resurrection, Russian Orthodox Church to St. Nicholas, Bulgarian Orthodox Church of Saint Ivan Rilski, two new Russian Orthodox communities and eight founding Serbian communities. As an overarching structure, there is the Metropolitan of Austria under the ecumenical Patriarchate in Constantinople. In a conference to prepare a panorthodox Council, the first in 1,000 years, the Orthodox churches have agreed on a new organization of the churches in the Diaspora. An Orthodox Episcopal Conference, chaired by the representative of the Ecumenical Patriarchate, is to be set up in all countries. ==References== In October 2010, the Orthodox Bishops' Conference in Austria was established. For this newly created institution, a legal personality for the state will be allowed, such as the Episcopal Conference of the Catholic Church, the Synod of the Protestant Church or the Old Oriental Church Commission. This is only due to the principle of equality. The bishop or the representative in the Episcopal rank, the Vicar of Bishops, must have his seat in Austria. A bishop needs a diocese. Its establishment, which has not yet been provided for in the law, is also to be made possible by this novelle. This also corresponds to a desire in particular to the Russian Orthodox and Serbian Orthodox Church. I would ask you to comply with this legitimate request and give your consent to this amendment. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e17402	Next speaker: Mr Gahr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e17424	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) With this amendment to the Federal Law on External Legal Relations of the Greek-Oriental Church – Orthodox Law – the Greek-Oriental Church in Austria, called "the Orthodox", is made possible for the establishment of dioceses. – Mr Mayer has already presented this very comprehensively. The installation of a diocese requires at least two churches. The dioceses are essential for the establishment of an Orthodox Bishops' Conference. ==References== ==References====External links== Today, with this novel, we are creating the requirement that this Bishops' Conference should also be given a legal personality. The Bishops' Conference regulates religious teaching. It must be regulated uniformly in Austria in accordance with a federal law. This novel is about adapting the 1957 law to today's conditions. All in all, this novelle leads to a legal equality of “orthodox ” with other Christian churches. We ask for approval of this legislative initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e17464	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Walser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e17487	Mr President. High house! We too agree with this law. It is particularly gratifying that in 2009 these very different, very different and not always one different Orthodox churches were able to become one themselves. In this context, however, it must also be noted that this agreement has actually come from the outside, so that the Mother Churches have reached this agreement and now also for the Orthodox oriental churches in the Diaspora – in this case in the Austrian Diaspora – is given the opportunity to one, so that we can finally speak of a semi-unique Orthodox church. In our opinion, this legal equality with other Christian churches is overdue. But, as I said, this was less about the legislator than rather about the churches themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e17521	Now Mrs. Federal Minister Dr. Schmied is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e17542	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! In October 2010 the Orthodox Bishops' Conference in Austria was established. In order to enable legal action to be taken outside this Conference of Bishops, as Mr Walser has already said, this legislative novel is necessary. At the same time, the long-standing desire of some churches for a diocese in Austria can also be fulfilled. I would like to take this day and this decision to thank His Eminence, the Metropolitan Archbishop Dr Michael Staikos very much for his cooperation. I would like to congratulate him warmly on his 25th anniversary as a bishop and on his 20th anniversary as a Metropolitan: I wish him all the best! He's got a very difficult time right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e17572	There is no longer any further mention of this matter. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 1268 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who support this draft to be a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall come to the third reading. If you join the draft in third reading, I would ask for a sign. – That is unanimous. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[17:30:15]] 13. Point Report by the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 1567/A(E) by Mr Mag. Heidemarie Untergebieter, Colleagues concerning the upgrading and preservation of the Volkskunde- und Volkskundemuseum (1380 d.B.) 14. Point Report by the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the proposal from the European Parliament and the Council to the Council (Doc. Dr. Wolfgang Zinggl, colleagues on fair payment for cultural workers (1381 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e17639	I call on points 13 and 14 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. We are going into the debate. Mrs Mag. Unspoiled. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e17666	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to talk today about the plan to put together two important museums in Austria. The plan has failed, I am glad about it because now a chance has been created that the two museums will face a prosperous future. The Austrian museum landscape is more influenced by art museums, and in this respect there is also a great deal of effort from cultural policy. But with the great cultural museums, things look quite different. There was now, as I mentioned earlier, this project “Museum new”, which foresaw to merge these two great cultural museums, the Folkskunde Museum and the Museum of Art, and this thing, as I said, has failed. This had to fail, because the two museums have two completely different core tasks. The Museum of Art, by the way one of the five most important museums in the world, shows testimonies of different peoples, from Africa, Asia, North and South America, and was an independent Federal Museum until 2000. At the time, the former director Seipel presented the idea to the then minister that he should be present to his museum, and the then Minister Gehrer agreed. In our opinion, this was a big mistake, because it should have remained an independent federal museum. It has been a department of the Kunsthistorisches Museum since 2001 and has since also lost great importance. The Austrian Museum of Folk Science, on the other hand – you should not mix the two, there are completely different museums – is the largest of its kind in all of Europe due to its extensive collections and research activities on the folk art of Austria, that is, a very different thing, and its neighbouring countries, namely the former chandelier of Austria. For years these two museums were starved and were in a crushing state. The Volkskundemuseum receives shamefully low financial support, which is only €400 000. This is the case. You can imagine this compared to the other museums: For example, the MAK, where the current director had to go due to various shortcomings, gets €9.5 million – just so you can see how little money this great folklore museum in the last few years. So this museum was fed with €400 000 and was not least in a difficult situation. Now it has come about that we have planned a merger of these two museums, which have quite different tasks. I quote now from a paper presented by the Ministry so that you can imagine what was at all the aim of this project. I quote: The "Museum new" should have questioned the historical attitudes and questioned local and regional identities with the orientation in a world that became multicultural in the course of globalisation. The "Museum New" should turn against a folklore and therefore be more than just the fusion of two museums. I quote: In a laboratory as a think workshop, previous knowledge should not be passed on but questioned and broken. And I quote one last time: Through the social-political mission, the house is addressed to migrants away from the educational citizenship. Ladies and gentlemen, I have only selected a few quotes, but on the basis of these quotes you can of course see where the trip should have gone. It was a hard fight against one's own history and against one's own folk culture. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] A multi-culti battleship should be created here, which should have blurd the meaning of one's own culture and thus ultimately erased it. It was, of course, an attack on our own identity if you read it carefully. The plan that the collection of the Volkskundemuseum should come to the attic and into the basement was also a gross disregard for the great collection of the Volkskundemuseum. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, the directors did not agree to this. Dr. Feest threw the towel in the Museum of Art, months ago. Mrs Schindler had to withdraw, she had to do that, otherwise she could not have fulfilled her responsibility as director of the Volkskundemuseum. So this thing has failed, and we now have the opportunity to finally shape the future of these museums so that both can look forward to a prosperous future. That is why I have made this request that the Volkskundemuseum, which has so far only been run as an association, become an independent Federal Museum and that the Volkskundemuseum again becomes an independent Federal Museum. I ask you, Mrs Minister, that you also act in this respect, because I can imagine that you too know that something has to be done here. Finally, ceterum censeo: The preservation of our identity is the subject of conscience in this era.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e17749	Next speaker: Mrs Ablinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e17771	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mrs Unterlander, we have been talking about this for years, I think it is the second year, and always is what you say here, against better knowledge. With this request, You construct and where you say that there is finally a chance on two own houses, you should also look for other lines for the two houses, because the project has not failed, it is laid on ice. Failed is not, as you imagine it, the impossibility of merging the identities, but quite the contrary. You did well to quote from this paper what the two houses wanted to do together. They ask where the trip is – yes, it would have been an exciting journey. It is, as I said, laid on ice, but it would be an exciting journey, one beyond the edge of the plate. This could really lead to insight, to illuminating. Mrs Unterlander, however, you want to limit the Museum of Folks and you want to limit it, you want to reduce it to the concept of your own identity and an identity-building cultural institution. [[Abg. Dr. Hübner: What's bad about that?]] I quote you on the question of identity Sami Ma`ari: Identities are highly complex, tension-loaded, contradictory symbolic formations, and only those who claim he has a simple, clear, clear identity, only he has an identity problem. The term identity is not as easy to define as you imagine it to be. This is what we're going to do. That is our identity, we know what our identity and our culture is!, this very determination always implies a demarcation to the other, always a demarcation. And always it's a bit worn by the "I sane me!" This concept “Museum new” did not want to distinguish itself from other cultures, but rather create a context, a living place of encounter, with different living worlds, with a constant dialogue. It didn't want – I quote – to be a house as a museum temple for the care of unchangeable truths. This merger is currently on ice. In spite of all this, I think that this concept is in principle welcome, contrary to what the colleague has said. In contrast, however, we had a unanimously adopted request in the Committee on Culture, which I was particularly pleased with. It was an application for the work of cultural initiatives and cultural workers. In any case, this amendment is supported by recognition of what cultural initiatives in our country are doing, the importance they have for cultural diversity and cultural communication to the smallest communities. There are numerous initiatives in the communities, which also represent something like counter-publicity to the other cultural mainstream. Their working conditions are sometimes difficult. Let's take a closer look at this. The IG Kultur has also launched a campaign for this. I am pleased that we have made a joint amendment to Wolfgang Zinggl's request and now deal with the interministerial working group and continue the discourse. I am particularly pleased that this was at the end of a joint request. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e17816	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Zinggl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e17838	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! First of all, I would like to thank you very sincerely and expressly for working with the other parties, in particular with the cultural speakers of the other parties, as far as this resolution is concerned, with which we have made the payment of the cultural workers in I would like to examine this country more closely. It's very nice that everyone agreed. We have been pointing out for years that there may be a lot in the arrogance. We all know the importance of cultural work in rural areas. It all sounds so small, but if you look at the numbers, then you see, there are at least about 4 million people involved, you can almost say, because “visitors” is the wrong word. In contrast to the high culture – this is not a high culture, we already know – these participants are on average subsidized with 1 € of the federal government. 4 million visitors/visitors face 4 million euros of expenditure – this results in a very light bill, 1 € per visitor. And that in one of my opinion, very vital substrate of cultural life in Austria. They actually do a lot of work, and the whole thing for little money. I therefore think it is very fair that we look at this more closely, and thank you. However, I have a little concern as to whether this resolution, although decided by us five parties, will actually be implemented, because, Mrs Minister, I remind you, we decided here a year ago, at least three parties, the two coalition parties, to examine all legal, organisational and financial arrangements which would allow for the integration of the Volkskunde- und der Volkskundemuseum as an independent institution. And to this day I don't know how this exam went. I keep listening to everything possible, but nothing was presented. In the Committee you or, I do not know exactly, a member of the Social Democratic Party has been told that the Museum of Folks has gone out. Maybe you can clarify this today. I inquired at the Volkskundemuseum. They didn't leave, but they just got out of the idea of leaving the whole thing in the association with the Art History Museum. But that was not the intention of the motion for a resolution, there it is stunned and clear: self-reliance, and “self-reliance” does not mean under the cover of the Art History Museum. I tell you quite honestly, with the same right as the ethnography or possibly the folklore museum could be integrated into the association with the art history, the Palm House could also be there. And exactly this chaotic mixture of everything and everyone in museum policy is something that I've constantly teased under forks, but it doesn't improve in this respect at all, it's really for growing up. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] So, I hope Austria also recognizes the importance of the Museum of National History. For 10 years it stands still, is rehabilitated again and again, stands empty – again and again a small exhibition so that it is not officially completely empty. Look at it, I said it in the committee: the Musée du Quai Branly in Paris with 1.4 million visitors a year, ten exhibitions a year, twice the best museum in the world. The newspapers are full of reports on ethnological and social anthropological museums. It's a run. And what does Austria do with the fifth largest collection in the world in this area? - It's snoring!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e17894	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Fuhrmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e17915	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr Zinggl, what you said before, is not quite right, because if you claim that our request to the Museum of Folks and Folks was aimed at creating a new Federal Museum, then it is simply not right. The request has not found that the goal should be a new Federal Museum, nor – and I am right in giving you – that the only possibility is the integration of folklore and folklore museum. All variants have remained open, and they have also been tested. The people responsible for the Museum of People's History and the Volkskundemuseum, you know, have, also with the involvement of the Ministry's staff, I think, talked for years about the financial possibilities under which a cooperation can be realized. In times like this, I think you should know – and I hold the cultural nation of Austria at least as high as you yourself – that the creation of a ninth Federal Museum is not feasible. Where should we take the money if we even have to call into question family benefits and social benefits? So I think that this should also be referred to honestly in order to draw a conclusion here too, because it would be fatal if one made constant accusations here, who promised something or not. I think the proposal that the Museum of People's History presented to the Volkskundemuseum was a feasible one, and it was the decision of the Volkskundemuseum to stay independent. The fact that the city of Vienna has to make more effort to better support the museum, which is not a federal museum, is another subject. I also believe that not only the quality – because the quality is not so bad at all – but above all the exhibition mode and the possibilities available at the Museum of National History should be used better. What the colleague Ungetter said, namely that the Museum of Art is being fed down with only €400 000, is also wrong. [[Abg. May. Unspoiled: Volkskundemuseum!]] – Well, then I got it wrong in that case. But I think it is to be reckoned to the Mrs. Federal Minister that in times like this, a museum, which is not a Federal Museum, receives support. After all, it is a museum of the city of Vienna. In view of the fact that many Members are sitting here from the rural area, I would like to point out that it is already the case that the city of Vienna benefits most from the cultural initiatives, from the cultural institutions, but the city of Vienna does nothing in this respect. I would also like to mention this on the spot. It would be time to enter into negotiations on this issue with the city of Vienna. So there are still all possibilities open, the concepts are on the table. It is also necessary to re-occupy the director of the Volkskundemuseum. Perhaps then there are opportunities to renegotiate, to start the project again. I think everything that policy has been able to contribute to this has been done. The fact that we are dealing constructively with each other in the Committee on Culture has shown the amendment to the free cultural initiatives. It is not customary to amend a request for opposition from the government. That was quite a contradiction, not because we are so nice, but because we consider the concern for the right and important. The IMAG has already done good work in 2010. There were two legislative novels, with the Künstler Social Security Act and the Act of Actor. The Minister has shown good will here. And if basic research, a study for the free cultural initiatives, is to be started, then I am convinced that if there is any potential for improvement, then we will also comply with it. I would be pleased if we continued to work constructively on the culture, because I believe that is what Austria is characterized by in both European and international contexts.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e17952	Next speaker: Mr Markowitz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e17973	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Yes, Mrs Fuhrmann, that is the point. When you ask people outside: Do you know the difference between the Volkskunde- und Volkskundemuseum?, then 90 percent say: I don't know the difference. And I think this is where you have to put the lever on. [[Abg. Dr. Strutz: Have you ever been inside the Museum of Art?]] - I've already visited it. Now I'm telling you something that you're probably going to like very well: Over the summer we will develop a concept of how to rename the Volkskundemuseum in Austria-Museum. And I tell you very clearly why: so that people have more reference to it and these confusions simply do not happen in the future. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Good idea! Very good idea!]] We want to do this – I visited the museum already, you seem to be also, many of our colleagues unfortunately not – so that further confusion can be avoided in the future. This is also happening here in the High House – just before we experienced it. But Mr Zinggl has spoken about something – and I do not mean it sarcastic now, I mean it exactly as I say it – and that is the problem with such a committee: It's about the information. Mrs. Minister! I appreciate you and I'm convinced you know that, but if you're already on 7. A resolution was also adopted in the House last July with the votes of the government parties, but it has not yet been implemented and we have not received any information on the human, legal and financial problems and aspects of the merger of these two museums, then I have to bring in this resolution, which was also decided by the government parties at the time. I submit the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I am looking forward to broad agreement here so that we can really discuss what it looks like if it is financially possible so that the next director does not take the hat again, as was the case this year, and says: It can't be anymore! It's probably once again about skills that were undermined – we all know that. That is why I am looking forward to broad agreement on this, and when it is ready, we can talk about everything. But here, we find, we need two museums, and above all it is a strengthened Austrian museum, which we will be very happy to support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e18044	The motion for a resolution tabled is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e18106	Next speaker: Mrs. Federal Minister Dr. Schmied. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e18127	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I take Parliament's orders very seriously, Mr Zinggl, only the motion for a resolution was not on the basis of a Federal Museum, but rather on the motion for a resolution: a separate body. And here it was to be examined whether it is a federal museum that is newly established, which is introduced into the Volkskunde- und Volkskundemuseum, or an independent institution in the context of the Kunsthistorisches Museum. I have had both versions examined – it was the working group on governance involved, I have also dealt with lawyers – and I have come to the conclusion that a legally independent museum, a private federal museum, requires higher running costs than a solution in connection with the Art History Museum. And that is why I found myself under the budgetary circumstances – and I have had this research carried out again in October 2010 in the Cultural Committee and in the plenary and in March 2011 in the Cultural Committee – that the only possible variant of the current budgetary situation is that of implementing an autonomous institution as far as possible in the context and association of the Art History Museum. I communicated this accordingly to the Cultural Committee in March 2011, which is also to be seen in Parliament's correspondence. There were then very detailed discussions between the Volkskunde- und Volkskundemuseum in order to work out the degree of scientific autonomy. But then – the Volkskundemuseum is led in the legal form of an association – it came to the decision of the board that the Volkskundemuseum should not be brought together in association with the Volkskundemuseum in the Kunsthistorisches Museum. The reason was – I may quote –: The desired content and organisational independence, according to the Volkskundemuseum, is not possible under the roof of the Kunstmuseum KHM and the merger may be resumed at a later date. – This is the decision of the Executive Board of the Volkskundemuseum. That is, the status quo remains, the cooperation is intensified, so I am told. This is the point I have already mentioned to you, I say it again, in two committees of culture and also in plenary. Under the given budgetary conditions, the re-establishment of a Federal Museum is currently not feasible.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e18166	Next speaker: Mrs Hakel. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e18188	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, The Wolkenstein Cultural Centre, the Gesäuse Kreativ team, the KiK Culture in Ausserland, the KULTurVIECH Rottenmann, the Kulturdachverband R*E*X, all of which are cultural initiatives in rural areas that make a significant contribution to cultural diversity and cultural communication. Programmes and projects of the cultural initiatives are being carried out annually by around 4 million people throughout Austria. However, all these programmes and projects would not be possible, there would not be the numerous volunteers who work tirelessly for them. The voluntary report of the Social Ministry also confirms that most volunteers work especially in the fields of art, culture, entertainment and leisure. Many people are also right to make cultural work their profession – a profession with shameful pay and even worse working conditions. This, of course, is what I am convinced of, improved as soon as possible and brought to a decent level. The unanimously adopted amendment tabled by SPÖ, ÖVP and Greens is certainly a step in the right direction. An interministerial working group should now deal with the situation of cultural workers and thus develop foundations for the situation of cultural initiatives and their employees. Thus, a body will be created to improve the social situation of artists. It is therefore only useful to examine the working situation of cultural workers in free cultural institutions. It will certainly also be necessary to develop in this report a detailed assessment and development of appropriate measures to improve the situation of cultural workers, because it will only be possible to take targeted measures here so that rural cultural initiatives such as the Cloudenstein Cultural Centre, the Gesäuse Creative Team, the Kik Kultur im Ausserland, the KULTURVIECH Rottenmann or also the Kulturdachverband R*E*X can provide and inspire the rural population with cultural programmes and projects in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e18221	Next speaker: Member of the jury. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e18242	Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It has already developed an interesting dialogue on the future of the Volkskunde- und Volkskundemuseum. I only have to say one thing, Mrs Ablinger, if we are to identify identity with exclusion and demarcation, as you have said, and if that is the Austrian identity, then I do not entirely agree with it. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ablinger.]] Because the Volkskundemuseum is actually our... [[Abg. Ablinger: If I determine what identity is, if I determine what our...!]] I say this is the cultural identity of Austria, and you have to... [[Abg. Ablinger: This is a single...!]] – We cannot enter into a dialogue now, but we will discuss this once in a next conversation. We will be happy to accept the request made by Mr Zinggl, where there has been an amendment, because it is simply important that cultural initiatives be filled with cultural workers. I myself have in my city a cultural initiative, a very active cultural initiative, which has a budget of about €120 000 and employs seven to nine people over the summer months, and I consider it very important. However, there is still another important point, and this is a long-standing demand for freedom of movement, namely that cultural and art sponsoring can simply be taxed off. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Tadler.]] I believe that this would serve the most cultural and artistic workers in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e18310	Next speaker: Mr Höfinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e18332	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I too welcome this joint initiative to highlight the social and financial situation of the free cultural initiatives. I think that's something very important. I mean, it's also high time we had this evaluation carried out or carried out – across the board, so that we really get a comprehensive picture of how all those who are really preparing and implementing culture for people outside our communities and in many areas of urban institutions. What does it look like in the promotion system? What do they really get for their work? Can those who have initiated these projects in the long run also implement them? What, then, does their working conditions look like? And what is the added value – for all of us, on the one hand, but on the other hand perhaps very specific to those who are integrated into these projects? I would just like to give an example here – I myself am a member of many cultural initiatives, but there is one that I admire – about the theatre club “Theater Delphin”; earlier he said “Kindertheater Delphin”: This deals with inclusive theatre, with disabled children and young people. In the meantime, these young people are already matured into adults, so is the renaming to “Theater Delphin. ” It is something incredibly valuable and important what is being done there. I know what difficult conditions these people work under, but I also know how motivated they are and what great added value they bring to these young people and thus to all of us. Therefore, I am very glad to know that the findings from all these works are now summarized and bundled. And you can also look at exactly how you can help in the future very specifically, where we can provide concrete assistance. And not only does it remain in terms of recommendations, but measures are being put in place, I hope, no, I am even convinced, Mrs Federal Minister, that we can then take concrete steps to get ahead with this issue for example. For all these reasons, I would like to support this approach. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e18371	Next speaker: Mr Petzner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e18392	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! To the remarks made by my previous speaker: We welcome this too. Performance must pay off!, is our motto, so fair payment is also necessary for the field of cultural workers. One number: € 4 million for 53 cultural institutions, especially in free movement. – This also shows that there is a need for action here. That is why we also support it. If, in the context of Agenda item 13 above, the Volkskundemuseum and the Volkskundemuseum were discussed and Mr Zinggl compared this to the more positive development in Paris, we must also remember that we have not only a very great treasure in this area, as you say, but also in the area of open-air museums. In Styrian Stübing there is the largest open-air museum in Central Europe. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Steßl-Mühlbacher.]] Here, a few months ago, before the Styrian country election, the Federal Government's funding was promised in a resolution. What is happening is nothing, so now, as you say, this largest open-air museum in Central Europe is in front of the closure. I should therefore like to make the following request:
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e18454	Mr President, I should like to thank At the item on the agenda it is very concrete that we are talking about the Volkskunde- und Volkskundemuseum. They refer to Stübing, which is a completely different location. [[Abg. Scheibner: Yes, eh!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: This contributes to folklore!]] Only in the case of generous interpretation, if we debate museums as a whole, would I allow this request, in exception. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e18536	Next speaker: Mr Sacher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e18558	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Minister of the Interior! You know, Mrs Unterlander, I am happy to discuss with you because the discussions on cultural issues give me the opportunity to work out the ideological differences between us and those that exist. That's the first thing I wanted to tell you. I'll come back to that. And the second is, if you say that the project “Museum NEW” failed, I can tell you: No, the project has not failed, the plan has not failed! He is still waiting for his realization, ladies and gentlemen. And I could now prove exactly how this has developed in a chronology, but the Federal Minister has already taken this away from me. For some it would be good to repeat that, then they would finally remember. But the Minister of Culture has reported twice in the Committee on Culture, as she said here in March, that the appropriate legal basis would be the structure of the Art History Museum. Thirdly, Mr Zinggl asked me in the committee where I would have thought that the Volkskundemuseum itself had left the project. ==References== April with this letter to the Kunsthistorische Museum, the Verein für Volkskunde founded its exit – probably under the circumstances; of course, that is right what you said. I add: for now, hopefully not in the long run!, because in the same letter the association also writes that in the future it will cooperate more closely with the Volkskundemuseum, will build a network. And now literally quoted from this letter: It may be possible to include the Museum NEW project, which consists of an institutional link between two sciences, under different conditions at a later stage. And where are our ideological differences now? – From our point of view, your attitude is absolutely not up-to-date. Their interpretation, exclusively their own history, to present their own identity, so to speak, is not ours. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Unspoiled.]] They do not want the cultures of other foreign countries to be represented at the same time, but we want a museum that is not demarcated, Mrs Colleague, which sets itself in a context with the cultures of other countries and which is a living place of encounter with different worlds of life, ladies and gentlemen. [[New call for tender May. Inlander]] We do not rely on artificial exclusion, but on an innovative museum New, which is an invitation to an active and critical encounter with cultures. In this sense, we reject your request, as did the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Markowitz, because the Minister has given sufficient reason. [[Abg. Markowitz: (on the seat of Abg. Bucher sitting and waving the speaker) Hello, here!]] And I can only say to Stübing that negotiations are under way here. [[Abg. Mr Markowitz: Mr Sacher!]] It is not true that nothing is happening because negotiations are under way here. Therefore, this request is not necessary either. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e18636	No one is reporting on this. I'll close the debate. We shall vote separately on each of the Committee's proposals. Firstly, we shall proceed to the vote on the 13th. Agenda item: Proposal from the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of its report 1380. If you agree, I ask for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Opinion on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Markowitz, Members of Parliament, on the implementation of the resolution of the National Council of 7 May. ==References== If we support this motion for a resolution, I would ask for a sign of approval. - He doesn't find a majority. The application is rejected. President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: If you support this request, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Vote on item 14 of the agenda: This is the request of the Committee on Culture to adopt the resolution on fair payment of cultural workers annexed to the Committee's report in 1381. If you are for that, I ask for a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 185.) [[18:09:25]] 15. Point Report of the Committee on Internal Affairs on the Government Template (1260, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the War Material Act (1335, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e18727	We're coming to 15. Agenda item. The debate is being debated by Mrs Magistrate. Korun opened. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e18751	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear guests at the gallery! The War Material Act has been in need of quite a long period of renovation. It is gratifying that at last a novelle was thought and addressed. However, this has mainly the reason that the EU's common position on common rules for the control of exports of military technology had to be implemented. However, in the present proposal for a decision, we do not see a perfect and perfect application of these common rules for the control of exports of military technology. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: What's perfect?]] First of all, it is not understandable why the war material law should have an blatantly weaker standard of control than the foreign trade law which we have just adopted here in the house. They all know that there have been two green motions for resolutions to lift the standard of arms control in order to tighten the control of imports, transits and exports of war materials and weapons that can be used in military conflicts so that human rights violations are not committed so that weapons produced in Austria or exported from Austria or carried out by Austria do not terrorise the civilian population so that they are not used in wars. Therefore, it is not understandable why the present proposal creates two different standards, a higher standard in the foreign trade law and an blatantly lower standard in the war material law. Since the war material law is about much heavier weapons, war materials and war equipment, the control standard should actually be either equal or even higher. It is not to be seen why more restrictive arrangements are not provided for. First of all, the eligibility criteria: The very lax approval criteria from the previous war material law are almost one-to-one. Then there is the point to be strongly criticised that, when it comes to the public sector, no authorisation criteria are laid down. That is, if it is the public hand, for example, if it is the Ministry of Defence that wants to resell and execute the old war apparatus, then there is no authorisation criteria. We Greens believe that the government should be subject to the same criteria, the same strict rules and criteria as other exporters when exporting war materials. There is no adequate final use control. Final consumer certificates are not necessarily provided for, but are only a kann-determination. The fact that arms dealers can handle the rules with the help of subsidiaries of EU companies makes it possible to circumvent uniform EU standards. We believe that this is just a free letter for local arms dealers to bypass the standards the EU wants to provide by simply selling weapons to countries where wars are waged or where dictators can use these weapons and this war equipment against their own people. There are still many points on the basis of which we cannot accept the proposed government template: inadequate sanctions, insufficient control, poor reporting obligations and much more. We would have expected a uniform standard for arms trade control to be established; that is not the case. If war material is carried out through Austria or carried out from Austria and this war material, for example in the case of Libya, is used by dictators against their own population, then the people and the political forces who will unfortunately decide this law today will be responsible for it! That is why we are calling for the government template not to be adopted in this form, no majority will be granted, and the War Material Act will be in much worse form. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e18791	Next speaker: Mrs Fürntrath-Moretti. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e18812	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Mrs. Korun, at the beginning of your speech, I thought: So, finally, a praise of the Greens! They welcomed the novels in the first place – and then it was no longer praise for the government and for the novelle. But there are two different views, you stand by yourself – all the other political groups obviously share the same. With the implementation of this EU directive, we are very likely to create common standards for the movement of war materials within the European Union. The essential thing is: The obligations for the import, export and transit of war material as well as the control are precisely defined. All imports, exports and transits shall be recorded. What needs to be recorded? – the designation of the war material, including technical specifications and corresponding numbering; quantity and value of war material; the date and purpose of the shipment; the name and address of the sender, the recipient and, where appropriate, the final consumer; Evidence of compliance with any obligations and conditions and existing information obligations; any decisions, documents and documents. In addition, records shall be made on imports from the consignee, on exports from the sender and on transits from the authorisation holder or transporter. The signs In any event, five years must be kept in place as well as the relevant business documents. On final control of consumption, Mrs Korun: End-user certificates can only be issued by a government body. This will, of course, also ensure that there is no resale. All imports shall be notified without delay by the recipient of all exports by the sender, stating the information required by the Federal Minister of the Interior. If the reporting officer is a legitimate trader, an annual collection report shall be sufficient. Ladies and gentlemen, by implementing this EU directive, we are extending control, as all the institutions of the security service can also be involved. I ask for your consent.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e18855	Next speaker: Mrs Windbüchler-Sushill. - Please. [[Abg. Windbüchler-Sushill: Incorrectly reported!]] On the list is Mr. Windbüchler-Souschill. [[Abg. Windbüchler-Sushill: I do not!]] The next speaker is Mrs Lueger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e18899	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The draft federal law to amend the War Materials Act is first and foremost only an interpretation that we are implementing an EU directive. Measures to simplify the rules and procedures for the movement of defence goods within Europe, which is the central heading of this law. It shall apply to all defence goods in accordance with the Common Military List within the EU. Nationally, we must implement this EU directive – as Mr Korun said – in the Foreign Trade Act, but also in the War Materials Act. We need to regulate this by 30. It was adopted on 30 June 2011 and should be adopted from 30 June 2011. ==References== There are two types of permits for the transfer of war materials from Austria to another Member State. There is, on the one hand, the global authorisation, as it has already been, with the beneficiary in the EU being the owner of a commercial right for the arms industry for a period of three years. But there are also individual permits; they existed before, and they continue to exist. They are revocable at any time, and you can also attach them to conditions at any time. This is always about the movement of defence goods, which are not subject to the War Materials Act, because they are then regulated in foreign trade law. The export authorisation of an EU Member State should be valid throughout the EU, and this already leads to simplification. On the one hand, transit through individual Member States within the EU and on the other hand import within the EU will no longer be subject to additional authorisations in the future. Persons applying for export to third countries are likely to have to report to the BMI on the export restrictions applicable in other EU Member States. There are no changes to the current legal situation when moving third countries from, to and through Austria. This draft provides for non-binding information and in addition an adjustment and optimization of reporting and information requirements as well as control powers. That is why we want to agree to this because I think it is within the This should also be a simplification for common Europe.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e18939	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Rosenkranz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e18960	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Of course, it is important here to implement the relevant EU directives. The criteria of safety and control are absolutely to be observed. After all, this is war material, and it must be treated safely and controllably. It is also important that the relevant bodies are present in the context of this security, in particular authorities and police services. It is also necessary to provide for this safety. I should therefore like to make the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] This is a demand that the SPÖ has now also raised, even with signatures. In my opinion, she is interested in not voting on this motion – which I cannot understand at all, since this is her own concern. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Because it doesn't fit!]] Of course, it has to do with security. I trust that the President, as he himself said on the previous item on the agenda, is the one who generously interprets the requests. In this confidence, Mr President, I can also confidently put this motion for a resolution in your hands, because it is about safety and control as in the War Materials Act.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e19007	The motion for a resolution has come to my mind with confidence. Unfortunately, with all generosity, I cannot see a closeness to the subject. This is about the personnel of a police station, but we are dealing with the war material law. That is why this motion for a resolution is not under negotiation. Mr Ing. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party to the European People's - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e19037	Mr President. I have to agree with you, of course, that is completely correct. I am sorry, Mr Rosenkranz, even if I am completely with you in terms of content: Police station in Krems – at any time, and where you still want, we will agree everywhere, we are for more police stations. But what police stations have to do with the war and the war material law – except you say now, we're going to put the executive in the vicinity of military action – no, that's not right. [[Abg. Riepl: We have more and more pre-punished, we need more police!]] [[Further call-ins]] That's what the President has decided. Yes, we too are in favour of implementing this directive, which is absolutely correct. Mrs Korun, I do not really understand why you cannot go along with it – except that your greenish NGOs international, of course, do not agree with everything that has to do with war material, defence goods, and are always keenly looking for any arguments, so that you can vote against it. The arguments are really very, very weak in this case, because, in general, they are an EU directive that brings simplification, partly a debureaucratisation, even savings in the status quo. That's a positive thing, you have to see it that way. And, Mrs. Korun, just to clarify: The majority of the defence goods addressed are not war materials – that is only a small part – and are therefore very, very strictly regulated in foreign trade law – very, very strict! Or even if you are using the certification of those companies in Austria that are eligible for these materials at all, for the defence goods including the war materials: This is also much more stringent in foreign trade law than in many other countries. I therefore do not understand why one cannot agree. We'll do it anyway. Simplification is correct, so we are happy to agree today.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e19080	Next speaker: Mr Heinzl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e19101	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The success story of Europe after the Second World War is one thing for me: a strong proof of the importance of peace and freedom for the good of people. However, the fact that Europe is a peace and freedom union also means that we must find a common, responsible and realistic way of dealing with the goods and materials needed to defend the country. It is therefore only right and sensible to establish administrative arrangements for the transfer of war materials from Austria to another EU Member State. In principle – which has already been said several times today – it is necessary to grant a permit in the form of a global or individual authorisation. Global authorisations can only be issued for export to concrete recipients in the European Union and are available only to holders of a corresponding commercial authorisation. The approval shall be valid for a maximum of three years and may be revoked at any time. In my opinion, it is important that nuclear, biological or chemical weapons are generally excluded from this global export authorisation. It will also be possible to issue individual permits in the future. These are particularly important to respond quickly to changed political and international situations. Ladies and gentlemen, as mentioned above, the amendment of the War Weapons Act is a harmonization of European regulations. It is therefore only logical that a Member State's export licences are valid throughout the EU. It is therefore no longer necessary to obtain a new authorisation for transit through a Member State. It should be noted that if an application for the export of war material to a non-EU country is made by the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of the Interior must be informed by the applicant whether export restrictions exist in another EU Member State. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! It makes sense to regulate uniformly the export and movement of goods required for national defence across the EU. Especially in the case of such a sensitive subject as war materials, responsible handling of administrative rules is of great importance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e19143	Next speaker: Mr Fazekas. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e19165	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Even though we are discussing, in connection with the War Material Act, how to handle the rules within the European Union, I can point out that Austria, especially in the 1970s, has taken a very important pioneering role in the regulation in this form with the War Material Act. The rules apply to the authorities for detailed examinations, and they also exercise them very responsibly. Of course, there can always be developments that allow the conclusion that there are no weapons to be spent in a country. However, this would only be completely preventable if, in principle, there was no possibility of producing weapons on the one hand and acting with them on the other. But there is no sufficient political will for this, for my own reasons, to be comprehensible throughout the world. In Austria, too, there are numerous companies that produce high quality hunting weapons and weapons for sports purposes and for civil intervention organisations, in order to produce accompanying precision equipment and give thousands of people work. – That is also to be held. It is therefore all the more necessary for the provisions to be handled very restrictively and, in this case, efforts must continue to be made at European level, for example, to ensure a common monitoring of all arms transactions. I also see the task of policy not necessarily to give up the production of arms entirely – because this will not be possible for ideological reasons – but rather to ensure that illegal trade will be stopped and to use it to strengthen legislation and control in the form that we will be able to get more clarity about all arms in the future throughout the European Union. Here and today, with this provision, I believe, there has been a simplification in the administration of the war material law. It is therefore appropriate to agree accordingly. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e19208	There are no further words available here. The debate is closed. We come to the vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 1260 of the supplements. Whoever is for this draft, I ask him for a sign. – This is decided by a majority. We shall come to the third reading. If you also give your consent at third reading, I ask you to give me a sign. - That's the majority. The draft was therefore adopted at third reading. [[18:30:52]] 16. Point Report of the Committee on Internal Affairs on the Government Template (1122, e.g._Other Organiser Agreements between the Republic of Austria and the Swiss Confederation on the facilitation of ambulance and rescue flights (1336 D.B.) 17. Point Report of the Committee on Internal Affairs on the Government Template (1144, e.g._Other Organiser Termination of the Agreement in accordance with Art. 15a B-VG between the federal government and the country of Carinthia via a joint helicopter rescue service (1337 d.a.) 18. Point Report of the Committee on Internal Affairs on the Government Template (1145, e.g._Other Organiser Termination of the Agreement in accordance with Art. 15a B-VG between the Federal Government and the Upper Austria via a joint helicopter rescue service (1338 d.a.) 19. Point Report of the Committee on Internal Affairs on the Government Template (1146, e.g._Other Organiser Termination of the Agreement in accordance with Art. 15a B-VG between the federal government and the state of Vorarlberg via a joint helicopter service (1339 d.b.) 20. Point Report of the Committee on Internal Affairs on the Government Template (1147, e.g._Other Organiser Termination of the Agreement in accordance with Art. 15a B-VG between the federal government and the state of Vienna on a joint helicopter service (1340 d.a.) 21. Point Report of the Committee on Internal Affairs on the Government Template (1148, e.g._Other Organiser Termination of the Agreement in accordance with Art. 15a B-VG between the federal government and the state of Tyrol via helicopter services (1341 d.b.) 22. Point Report of the Committee on Internal Affairs on the Government Template (1150 d.a._Other Organiser Termination of the Agreement in accordance with Art. 15a B-VG between the federal government and the state of Salzburg via a joint helicopter rescue service (1342 d.b.) 23. Point Report of the Committee on Internal Affairs on the Government Template (1151, p._Other Organiser Termination of the Agreement in accordance with Art. 15a B-VG between the federal government and the state of Styria via a joint helicopter rescue service (1343 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e19326	We now come to points 16 to 23 of the agenda. We are holding the debate under one. There was no oral reporting. The debate opens up to Mr Dr. Strutz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e19357	Mr President. High Parliament! Under these agenda items we discuss two issues, including a positive one, namely the agreement between the Republic of Austria and Switzerland. This agreement is about simplifying procedures for ambulance and rescue flights. In view of the strong increase in travel between Austria and Switzerland, it is certainly right to ensure the rapid recovery of people suffering from accidents and to be able to handle them quickly. The purpose of this agreement is to avoid delays that endanger the lives of people who are particularly vulnerable to the alpine environment or the health of those affected. This is a useful relief for ambulance and rescue flights between Austria and Switzerland. We agree, of course. The second, rather more problematic, one. The area is the termination of the agreement between the Federal Government and the countries on a joint helicopter rescue service. They all know about and know the yellow helicopter rescue service of the ÖAMTC or in some countries also that of the Red Cross, which is expressing in emergencies. Because of €4 million, this good and positive facility, which has worked perfectly, which has worked to the satisfaction of all, is now deliberately terminated. In fact, these are the effects of the savings package. It is an impact that we transfer hundreds of millions of € to Greece, but for the rescue helicopter – and you can also make fun of it! – that saves daily lives of people suffering from accidents on the motorway and those who are in need in the alpine area, we have no €4 million left. [[Call the SPÖ:And to Carinthia!]] It's embarrassing! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] High House, embarrassing is especially as it has come to this termination. I have already said that the practice, satisfaction of the federal states and the standard of the ÖAMTC, which was commissioned by the federal government, were very good. The ÖAMTC reported a few years ago and said that it can no longer work cost-effectively because losses of €4 million occur annually. Mrs. Fekter and Mr Stöger then started to work, so to speak, and tried to reach an agreement between the ÖAMTC and the main association of social security funds. The result was that one made a tender, but it was designed in such a way that no one applied for it. You have to imagine that! In fact, these have actually been gag contracts, and it should have been whipped through everything in a Ho-Ruck procedure. I also expressly note that, from my point of view, it has been a very conscious and targeted action by the Minister of the Interior, who has tried very skillfully to transfer the costs to the countries, which, of course, does not make sense, because the countries are technically able to continue to ensure emergency supply with rescue helicopters, and they will do so, but everything will also become much more expensive. It will be announced, there will be foreign providers. We have already had a case in Tyrol, where a foreign operator has reported himself as the only one who has come to the train in the tendering of ground-bound rescue. The budget has increased dramatically. So we are in a situation where we have deliberately destroyed a good solution that has worked, in which we now have to take on board that an unsatisfactory solution is that foreign suppliers in Austria will come to the train, that less quality will be given in this delicate area, that we will have an increased budget need and in the end we will have a solution to which the population will not be able to trust in the future. The fact that the Minister of the Interior has sacrificed the black ÖAMTC in favour of the red main association, who no longer wanted to pay, is a story. We do not agree with this termination of a good solution, a cooperation with the countries that have actually benefited the people in need, the victims of accidents, because it is a wrong solution because it is a pointless solution that will be worthless.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e19396	Next speaker: Mr Kößl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e19418	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Strutz, you didn't do this well. One thing you might need to clarify from the course: In 1984, in agreement with the countries, the Ministry of the Interior took over the rescue, because the Ministry of the Interior was the only organization capable of providing this rescue across the board. In this context, the Article 15a agreements have been reached. It is clear that all the Rescue is a matter of the countries. The Ministry of the Interior has operated the rescue until the year 2000. In 2000, there was a contract with the ÖAMTC. I am of your opinion that this emergency helicopter fleet of the ÖAMTC has done a really excellent job on and on its own. A total of around 210 000 operations have been made to date, with around 12,000 operations in 2010. That's actually not to think away anymore. But it must also be clear that the ÖAMTC has dissolved this contract, that there is no extension and that... – No! [[Abg. Dr. Strutz: Who did not extend the contract?]] It's not to anyone... – No! Please, let me talk! [[Abg. Dr. Strutz: The Ministry of the Interior has no longer extended the contract!]] Listen! There has been no extension of the contract. Of course, the interests of the countries are quite different. In the negotiations, the interests of the federal government on the one hand and those of the countries on the other, were also no longer coordinated. For this reason, the contract has been dissolved. Flight rescue and emergency helicopter operations are currently in the same level throughout Austria. In Lower Austria, there have already been contracts with ÖAMTC in 2008, according to which three support points are served in Vienna's Neustadt, Krems and Ybbsitz and Vienna's surrounding area from Vienna. So there is a comprehensive supply from the countries today. Before that, it was the Ministry of the Interior and the ÖAMTC that secured them. However, I do not ask to say that the Ministry of the Interior, the Minister of the Interior or anything else has done something. There has no longer been any extension of the contract because the interests have been diverted, and it is a matter of the countries. – This must be clear to us, and this is exactly what has been taken into account. I am also very glad that there is the agreement between Switzerland and Austria. Bureaucracy has lost nothing in the service. I think it makes sense not to try Austro Control, the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of State Defense when such efforts occur. It is therefore useful that this agreement exists.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e19487	Now Mrs. Federal Minister Mag. Mikl's head of business. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e19508	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. High house! I should like to add the same horn as Mr Kößl's Member of the National Council and to disprove some of what Mr Strutz said. Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that we agree that rescue is a very essential and central role. Each and every one of us knows someone whose lives have saved the rescue of flight or who has supported it in an emergency situation. The fact is, however, that in the 1980s the Federal Ministry took over this task because of the BMI's infrastructure. The fact is that in 2000 ÖAMTC took over this task on behalf of the Ministry of the Interior. Fact is also that it is as at 31. ==References====External links== Of course, it was important and necessary to guarantee a security of supply or security of supply. It was worked with a lot of effort, with great intensity on a federally uniform solution. I say quite clearly here: Unfortunately, despite all efforts, such a federal solution did not come about. But I also say quite clearly that there were not solutions with all the federal states, but that there was an agreement with all except Lower Austria and Burgenland in the 1980s. The fact is that we can now say that the federal states have sought and found this core competence, their own competence for rescue, individual solutions, which also ensures security of supply. So don't be insecure and polemize there now! The countries have shouldered their responsibility. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Many contracts are under roof and compartment, one or the other is just before completion. It is all guaranteed and, of course, we are at the side of the Ministry of the Interior for every support when it comes to crisis operations, disaster attacks. So we can say: A package was chained by the Länder and the Federal Government, with which we can really take over the guarantee of supply. Let us give people the security that they are provided, and let us not polish as you do, honourable Members.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e19569	Next speaker: Mr Delegate Dr. Pirklhuber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e19590	Ladies and gentlemen! A rare opportunity for me to take my colleagues to Strutz, in front of the Federal Minister. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. That's what you have to complain about!]] Ladies and gentlemen, because of “Polemik” – in this matter it is more than questionable –: In the public sector, we have the call for greater efficiency, for savings everywhere. And right here, in a highly sensitive and important area, stand down and say: That's all polemics. If you had now criticized the countries as a Federal Minister, I would have understood that. They have mentioned that Lower Austria has long been outstretched. There is a study by the State of Lower Austria, namely the Lower Austrian Regional Hospital, which clearly states: There would be 16 locations in Austria enough, currently there are 39. For taxpayers, therefore, this change will definitely be more expensive without greater security for citizens in that country. [[Congratulation with Greens and FPÖ.]] This is also the reason why we will not, of course, agree to the termination. I don't understand how you can defend this, Mrs. Federal Minister. From a federal point of view, one should have said: Incredible! The countries are increasingly beginning to work on their own dark without focusing on improving efficiency. That's fact. The other aspect is clear: If a federal contractor such as the ÖAMTC has to do with declining loads, it thus achieves less cost coverage and thus gets into a crisis, into a shear. It is therefore also about the countries and private providers, which have become much more important. However, it is also about the expectation of citizens. You have to say that. There is no question of expectation in tourist regions – you can discuss them properly and in detail, there is no question. However, it is also a problem if the helicopter is always required for any problematic situation. These are delicate questions that belong to specific discussions on the ground. We would have expected that the working groups launched by the health sector would have been stronger, earlier, more timely, more efficient, so that a solution would have been found more quickly. For example, countries have gradually broken down and have begun to base on their own solutions. In total, it will cost taxpayers significantly more. It's a shame, Mrs. Federal Minister, that you couldn't prevent this. The agreement with Switzerland on ambulance and rescue flights makes sense. That's what you see: Where there is coordination, you can also pay, you can also reduce bureaucracy and increase security. This is in the sense of the citizens of both Switzerland and Austria. We shall vote in favour of this part of the request. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e19639	Next speaker: Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e19660	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) It must already be made clear that this termination did not go out of the federal government, but that ÖAMTC declared 2008 this termination of the rescue flights. There has to be a solution in order to ensure that people will receive help in the future even if they need help. It is also true – and this is what the gentlemen of the opposition parties know – that there have been a lot of talks with the countries, but there has not been a single solution. Now the Federal Government and also the Minister of the Interior are faced with the fact that there is an Article 15a agreement which, because of the unaccompanied federal solution, is no longer valid, because the Article 15a agreement is based on the fact that the Rescue system is in the competence of the countries. In 1984, as Mr Kößl has already said, these agreements have been agreed because the BMI has provided the device and also partly the pilots, but the countries have their own task in the field of national competence. You also know, Mr. Strutz, that there have been seven states that signed this agreement – under quotation marks only. So there has never been a unified solution. Now there was just the fact that we had to find a new solution. The announcement of the Article 15a Treaties, which we are adopting today, is also in place to give back a competence where it belongs, namely to the countries. The aim must be to ensure a comprehensive supply in the future – and the Minister has already said this – so that assistance can be provided in the future, where assistance is quite, absolutely necessary. If one considers how often and in what large number of rescue flights are carried out, namely about 35 per day, then one also knows what order we are talking about and that it is really important that there are solutions. We should not be black-painting, but simply working to ensure that every federal country can provide a supply, just as it has been in the past, so that help can be guaranteed in the future. With regard to the second request concerning the flight rescue agreement between Austria and Switzerland, I believe that this is a very good one. The solution is because a definition makes it clear what ambulance and rescue flights are, because it is made clear that even off airfields and where they are needed can be provided more quickly.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e19711	Next speaker: Mr Doppler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e19733	Mr President. Minister! The rescue is very important. There is no question about safety, ladies and gentlemen. What has been listed here, however, is not all right, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. In 1984, the Ministry of the Interior took over the rescue in seven federal states. In 2000, the rescue operation was transferred to ÖAMTC without a call for tender, although there would have been enough helicopter operators with suitable machinery and personnel to do so. It appeared that a monopoly position for the ÖAMTC should be created. I would also be very interested in what has become of the unanimous decisions of the Salzburg Landtage in favour of the company Heli Austria and against the Austro Control. It would also be very interesting to know what has become of the criminal charges of the Salzburg state government against the Austro Control for suspected abuse of office. Security is in the rescue of flight top command, but what has happened in this matter is not all right with Weitem! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e19763	Mr Hagen. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e19784	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! As far as the agreement with Switzerland is concerned, which reduces administrative formalities in the case of rescue flights – you can only be there for that! The more surprising it was for me in the Committee on the Interior when the Greens voted against it. I can only refer this back to a vote by Mr Pilz, who, like a scattered professor, did not know what he was voting on. That's right for him, I can only interpret it. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Kößl.]] Today the Greens vote in favour. I think that's positive, they checked what it's all about, finally, an insight. I think that's very positive. To Mr Strutz: Now I would like to come to the Article 15a agreements or to the rescue helicopter flights of the Ministry of the Interior and later the ÖAMTC. I would explain to you once a small difference of expertise, Mr. Strutz – if you would not read the paper, then you would understand –: The executive – or the police helicopter in particular – is responsible for maintaining public order, peace and security. The countries, in turn, are responsible for the rescue sector, which is why it is also a matter of country, Mr President. As Mr Kößl has already said, it is true that in 1984 the BMI had only the device and came to the aid of this kind. Assistance service, which has then been legalised with an Article-15a agreement. I have a lot to do with rescue flights, even in my service activity – I also know what the police helicopters have to do – and can explain to you: The first task is not to rescue, but to maintain public order, peace and security. This suffers from the very many rescue operations that the police now have to carry out. There is the ÖAMTC. In Vorarlberg this works very well, as the ÖAMTC helicopter flies almost all rescue operations. In case this device is not enough, there are private providers. You have heard, Mr Doppler has just mentioned private providers in Salzburg, who are currently biting the Austro Control. There is something you should do too, so that the competition can rise a little more, then it will also be cheaper. There is enough equipment that can do this. In the extreme case, the police are also available for assistance, for example in the mountains, in rescue operations and so on. So there is sufficient capacity, so I think it is a reasonable solution. The countries have already concluded a large number of contracts, which give rise to security for rescue operations. That is why the BZÖ will agree to this – because this is a reasonable matter and because, as I have said, that is country and not federal.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e19842	Next speaker: Mr Plessl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e19863	Mr President. Estimated Minister of the Interior! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! First: Of course, we agree with the agreement between Switzerland and Austria, which is quite clear. The second area: The cancellations of the Article 15a agreements with the seven countries of Carinthia, Upper Austria, Vorarlberg, Vienna, Tirol, Salzburg and Styria today are rather sad to agree to the joint air rescue service concerning it, because it is very sad in view of the success story of the last decades that there was no uniform system. Much has been said about the story by Mr Kößl, but also about the Minister of the Interior: from 1984, when the whole thing began, until 2000, when the ÖAMTC was commissioned on a private economic basis, to today's terminations. I note, however, that the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Health have striven to achieve a joint Austrian solution to the rescue service, but they have failed, among other things, in the different views of the countries. I would like to thank Minister for Health Alois Stöger, who has been very committed to an Austrian flight rescue model. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Strutz.]] In this context, it is very important to mention that the crews of the Christopher flight rescue association are flying a lot of operations. I would like to thank you very much for your commitment and for your commitment to all Austrians! They work 365 days a year, from sunrise to sunset, with a start time of up to three minutes, and they have very A great deal has been done for the people who have been in danger of life and in emergency situations. I would therefore like to thank them very much. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] To work in the Committee on the Interior, I would like to say: On the one hand, with the Greens, Mr Pilz has rather held back his colleague Steinhauser and his colleague Treasure, so that she does not agree – I understand – but unfortunately he has not been here today to argue; this has been taken over by Mr Pirklhuber. On the other hand, colleagues from FPÖ: Mr Strutz, you were neither in committee nor did FPÖ make a committee contribution. It would have been more sensible to comment on the Committee so that we can discuss it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e19926	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall come to the votes we shall take separately from each of the Committee's requests. Firstly, we shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 16: Request of the Committee on Internal Affairs, the conclusion of the State Treaty in force, Agreement between the Republic of Austria and the Swiss Confederation on the facilitation of emergency and rescue flights, 1122 of the Supplements, in accordance with Article 50(1). 1 Z 1 B-VG. If you agree, I'll ask you for your sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 17: Request by the Committee on Internal Affairs, the termination of the agreement pursuant to Article 15a B-VG between the Federal Government and the State of Carinthia on a joint helicopter rescue service, 1144 of the supplements, to grant approval. I'm asking for your sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 18. Request by the Committee on Internal Affairs, the termination of the agreement in accordance with Article 15a B-VG between the Federal Government and the State of Upper Austria on a joint helicopter rescue service, 1145 of the supplements, to grant approval. I'm asking for your sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 19: Request by the Committee on Internal Affairs, the termination of the agreement pursuant to Article 15a B-VG between the Federal Government and the State of Vorarlberg on a joint helicopter rescue service, 1146 of the supplements, to grant approval. I'm asking for your sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 20: Request by the Committee on Internal Affairs, the termination of the agreement pursuant to Article 15a B-VG between the Federal Government and the State of Vienna on a joint helicopter rescue service, 1147 of the supplements, to grant approval. I'm asking for your sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 21. Request by the Committee on Internal Affairs, the termination of the agreement pursuant to Article 15a B-VG between the Federal Government and the State of Tyrol on a joint helicopter rescue service, 1148 of the supplements, to grant approval. I'm asking for your sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 22: Request of the Committee on Internal Affairs, the termination of the agreement pursuant to Article 15a B-VG between the Federal Government and the State of Salzburg on a joint helicopter rescue service, 1150 of the supplements, to grant approval. I'm asking for your sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 23: Request by the Committee on Internal Affairs, the termination of the agreement pursuant to Article 15a B-VG between the Federal Government and the State of Styria on a joint helicopter rescue service, 1151 of the supplements, to grant approval. I'm asking for your sign – This is accepted by a majority. [[18:59:59]] 24. Point Report by the Committee on Internal Affairs on the petition (71/PET) on “A rapid, human rights reform and humanitarian reform of Austrian foreign law”, presented by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Dr. Wolfgang Pirklhuber (1344 a.k.a.) 25. Point Report of the Committee on Internal Affairs on the petition (64/PET) on ‘Children are not in prison’, presented by Mr Sonja Ablinger, Dr Franz-Joseph Huainigg, Mr Tanja Windbüchler-Souschillund Ing. Peter Westenthaler (1345 d.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e20061	We come to points 24 and 25 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. Before I go into the debate, I would point out that a brief meeting of the Constitutional Committee is taking place in the local VIII. The debate on this item on the agenda opens up to Mr Dr. Rosenkranz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e20088	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Two points that all deal with foreign law standards. On the one hand, foreign law is required to become more humanitarian. – Maybe it can become human, if it becomes more humanitarian, I don't know that. In any case, one thing is clear: Foreign law is something essential. There can only be an exploitation, and we certainly don't want to. There is therefore a need for a clear foreign right, with clear provisions, which can also be clearly implemented. [[President Dr. Graf takes over the chairmanship.]] The next point is the humane handling of human execution. What does that actually mean, “Children do not belong to prison ”? In principle, children don't come to prison with us unless they are born in a judicial centre. In our opinion, an important point is that mothers are not separated from their children. It's the best thing for a child when it comes to parents. However, there is a special situation that occurs when the parents, legally insured, come into shock. Then the question arises: What do you do with children who belong to it? Of course, this cannot be a restless cell or similar, but it must be a correspondingly adapted secondary centre, which also meets the needs of children and families, but the purpose, namely deportation, must ultimately be guaranteed if this deportation has been recognized as legitimate up to the highest court! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is therefore important in dealing with foreign law that there are also those who exercise this right of foreigners; and it is important that the corresponding police officers exist, and these policemen must also be in Krems. Therefore, we make the following request:
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e20148	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e20213	Next speaker: Mr. Prince. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e20234	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to thank the initiators and signatorys of petitions 64 and 71 for their commitment and for their commitment to a very important topic. The two petitions are in any case in line with our efforts to get faster, clearer and more efficient in dealing with asylum procedures, thus making these procedures more humane. Many novelties of the Foreign Law Act have gradually drawn us closer to this goal in recent years, and we have finally reached the goal. In fact, children don't belong to prison, I give everyone the right! Even in the asylum field, they have lost nothing in prison. Exact age determinations protect us from any mistakes. Solution such as a general deportation stop or a general, general right to stay cannot be a satisfactory solution. Every case, every fate is carefully looked at and examined and carefully examined, while respecting and maintaining the high standards of protection within the meaning of the Geneva Convention on Refugees – including the procedures of asylum seekers without children. I do not want to mention that we have a very high quality standard in the field of asylum procedures, especially in Austria – this is internationally recognised. However, abuse of asylum applications must not be possible! You have to be able to meet them effectively, and there has to be a handling for that. Austria is one of those countries which are heavily burdened in Europe, on the one hand asylum procedures, and on the other hand migration. For reasons of time, I would just like to mention a few figures. In Austria, about 1,543 million people live with migration backgrounds, which is almost one fifth of our population. You could also say, if you look at the story: Migration is not always automatically negative. There can also be positive examples. Think of personalities such as Prince Eugen, Beethoven or Mozart, who have enriched Austria very much, with whom Austria has become familiar and famous. [[Deputies Mag. Stadler and Strache:Mozart as an example of integration?- Oh, my God!]] [[General hustle and bustle.]] However, we must deal with migration not only nationally, but also internationally, at European level. Ladies and gentlemen, neither overreaction nor hysteria, but well thought-out, forward-looking and responsible action are required in a sensitive matter like this one. The experts of the Ministry of the Interior and our Mrs. Federal Minister Mag. Mikl leaders really do this task perfectly well, it is best done by them.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e20287	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Korun to speak. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e20308	Ladies and gentlemen! I am pleased to hear that ÖVP has obviously chosen a very liberal approach to integration and now also wants to integrate Salzburger in Vienna or assumes that Salzburger Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart was a well-integrated one in Vienna or Austria. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] – No, I really find it pleasing, it is not meant very sarcastic. The development that the Committee on Petitions forwards the petitions to the committees responsible for content is quite welcome. We welcome that. We assume that it will continue that way. As far as the two are concerned, we were very surprised and I was very surprised that there were hardly any statements of words in the Committee on the Interior, apart from the Greens. That is why we have decided to put forward two motions for resolutions on these points, which are more or less verbatim, but in any case a hundred percent of the content of these two demands. That is why I would first like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] This is the content of the petition of the municipality of Aschach on the Steyr. If we take this seriously, then we should go along with this concern and agree to this motion for a resolution. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Andreas Hofer as an integration figure!]] [[Abg. Street: The famous Italian!]] The second motion for a resolution concerns the petition, which was even signed by four parties, namely four Members from four different political groups, and brought as a petition: “ Children don’t belong to prison. ” This is known to be a concern and a petition signed by more than 120 000 Austrians. I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, ÖVP and BZÖ groups, if you have seriously meant this with the signing of the petition "Children do not belong to prison", then you should consistently decide on the content of this petition so that it can be implemented. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Do not submit to me...!]] If your signature is worth something, we assume that the second motion for a resolution will find the majority today in the National Council. – Thank you many times for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e20417	The two motions for resolutions which have just been tabled are sufficiently supported and are under negotiation. The two applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e20521	Next speaker: Mr Pendl. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e20542	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We have already held many discussions about foreign law and asylum here, but I would ask – and really do it every time we talk about people – that we discuss matters. These laws are clear according to the UN Convention on Children's Rights and the Convention on Human Rights. It can't please someone, I understand, there's a different access. But I only say that the Austrians have done great things in all these decades as far as refugees are concerned. Let us remember that when we discussed the last novel of foreign law here and then decided, the introduction of the asylum court was agitated. In the meantime, it's a success story. The “Rucksack” has already been dismantled to a third, and I assume or we assume that this next year will be completely finished in spring. The rule of law is flawless. To this end, we can only congratulate the President of the Asylum Court and its judges. Together we wanted rapid procedures. In the case of both novelties, we have tried to put in place legislative measures here too quickly. I said during the last discussion that if someone wants something, if he wants solidarity aid and it is justified, then, I believe, there is nothing to do if he is involved for five days in helping our officials to deal with these procedures quickly. We are currently under one year's notice and the time of appeal. So you can really just say that's the right way that we wanted to go together. I only remember a number – I don't know who reads the newspapers carefully –: It is still true that we have 1.3 asylum seekers in Austria and the Italians, who are permanently in the media, have 0.1 asylum seekers. Just to make a biterl recognize the seriousness of the thing. Ladies and gentlemen! There's no way a child's going to jail. Even if you repeat it so often, it doesn't get better. It won't be better because it's not possible. If a rule of law has been decided and it has just been decided that there is no grounds for asylum, then it is always tried that those concerned leave the country voluntarily – they even support them materially. But I think if the attempts fail that someone goes on a voluntary basis, then it must be clear that a deportation has to take place. I cannot understand why we always discuss the same questions. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Because you don't implement it!]] I say quite openly, if we have discussed everything together – and we have discussed it all – those facilities that have been set up for the families, then we realize that they have neither a prison nor anything else to do with. But I believe that on this issue, which is so serious, which is so important, we should work together to really discuss the contents correctly, because no one wants children to be in prison. The only example that Mr Rosenkranz has brought is the legal standing with us for decades. For decades, it has been our legal system that if a prisoner receives a child, this will remain with us in the judicial institutions. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: That's it!]] And it is the most obvious thing that we have 14-year-olds incarcerated with judicial judgment – earlier on the Jugendgerichtshof, now holding over other competent courts. [[Abg. Lauss: Detention is detention!]] [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: Prison is prison!]] We do not want to compare this at all with this area, not at all. But always saying that children of asylum seekers are in custody is wrong. On the other hand, no one notices that this has been a tradition in another area for decades. I am only seeking that we really discuss these issues seriously and objectively in the interests of the matter, but also of humanity.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e20625	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Westenthaler. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e20647	I would like to thank Mr Prinz for the clarification and for the illustrious remarks, because he has informed us here in public, hopefully also in front of many television viewers, what the concept of integration for the ÖVP means, he has mentioned the successful integration example of Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart. I congratulate you, Prince! The successful integration of Salzburg is a good approach. I just hope it doesn't come out as an ÖVPler and I might mention Andreas Hofer, Hans Moser or Maxi Böhm as successful examples of integration. [[Abg. Stache: Andreas Hofer!]] [[Abg. Street: The Maxi Bohemia from Bohemia!]] That would be the correct continuation of this list. So what kind of nonsense you're spreading! This only shows that you are not dealing with the subject. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Second preliminary remark: Whatever surprises me, Mr Pendl, you come out of it all seriously and ask yourself with a serious look and with serious ante – I am taking it from you – philosophically the question: Why do we still discuss all of this? – Word-worship quote from you just now. [[Abg. Pendl: You repeat this time and again!]] The answer is quite simple: Because you're not doing anything in the government! Because we still have asylum abuse! Because we still have the insanity of follow-up proposals! Because we still have thousands of procedures that will not be completed! This is the problem why we need to continue to discuss how we put asylum and foreign policy on new feet, Mr Pendl. The problem is also that we have a State Secretary as a practitioner of this government, who likes to present any 20 stencils, any signatures, any statements in catalogues and any reports, but does not come to the first Committee on the Interior in which he would have belonged, and who does not find it worth the effort to come to Parliament if we discuss integration. This is the problem that he does everything he can to market himself, the good guy, but nothing at all to do when it comes to taking initiatives here in Parliament. That's actually madness, and that's why we keep discussing it again and again: because there is a lack of seriousness. [[BZÖ and Abg. Bitch.]] Madam Minister for the Interior, I have already told you in committee: It's useless – and that's the shame – if you spend millions and millions of millions – I hope we get the number, you promised us – for comprehensive advertisements, where you place “German in front of admission” and where you write apodically below: “Whoever wants to come to Austria in the future must be able to speak the German language” if you, if we disprove your statements in the committee and make it clear to you that this is the untruth, then in the committee say you will look at this, but the ads will continue to appear. That's where I ask you how seriously you take this. We have found in the Committee – and you have to admit it, and even the State Secretary who is then called for it – that, of course, through the red-and-white red card detour with the simple point system of the minimum number of 50 points skilled workers, simple workers in the field of disability professions, without being able to get a syllable of German, can come to Austria. – Nothing German in advance! This is a back door that you just left open and that is too closed. If you take it seriously, then that is to be closed, Mrs. Innenminister! [[In the case of the BZÖ, as well as the members of the FPÖ.]] Then you need to innovation the red and white red card and once take the German language as the basis for any points at all. That is what we demand of you, and that was our desire. To the petitions themselves. Of course, Mrs Korun, our signature counts. We insist that children can't be in custody, and they can't be pushed, and there's some movement there. We are not satisfied with the current solution. But on the other hand, we also make it clear that what you demand, namely a mandatory, general so-called humanitarian right, cannot be the solution. [[BZÖ and Abg. Bitch.]] This cannot be the solution, Mrs Korun, because it opens the door to abuse, and it is a particularly disgraceful abuse because it is then carried out on the fate of the children. And we do not agree with that, because we have very concrete proposals. Of course, you should look at each case, and we do not like at all when children from school classes are, so to speak, taken out with the executive and are to be postponed, children who have been in the country for years and days, who have been well integrated into the language. But this requires a catalogue of conditions that must be fulfilled, and not a general humanitarian right. That is why we are against your petition and for the others we have signed.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e20735	The next speaker was Mr Lausch. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e20756	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! I join with the only right thing we have heard today, Mr Rosenkranz, first speaker. It is about the petition concerning “children do not belong to prison. ” It has been said a lot, but, ladies and gentlemen, you certainly all know § 74 para. 2 Criminal Enforcement Act. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Yes, we all know!]] [[Abg. Now you're dizzying!]] There it is regulated as one of the most humane in criminal execution possible provisions, as an achievement of the Austrian human law enforcement. I invite you all – Mr Pendl, Mr Korun, Mr Prince, all who have turned out and talked so well – you have the chance to drive you to the Schwarzau Court of Justice. There are eight mothers there whose children are in prison. Read the text concerning “Children Are Not In Prison ” to these mothers! Take them away right away! Take her with you and listen to the scream. Then you'll see who the good people are here and who the humane people are here. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Do you know what happens when after three years the children, the three-year-old children of the mother are taken away? You know what's really going on behind the prison walls? Mr Pendl, I know you said this at the end of your speech, but it doesn't get any more right, just because you mention it by the way. It's not all red, black, green, the world is colorful. Prison's in jail, please, prison's in prison. You can't say, in the execution of the sentence, it'll fit us, because we were involved in it, we did it humanely, but we don't like it when we're in custody. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Korun.]] Do you really want illegals to use the children as a shield so that they don't get into puzzling? Do you really want that? – No, I think we don’t want all of us, and that needs to be highlighted. [[Complaints with FPÖ and BZÖ.]] Look, Mr Korun, because you are so excited, Mr Pendl, Mr Prince, I read to you from a press report by eusterreich.ORF.at, certainly not a free medium, as you know, of 24. January 2011. There a psychologist, Mrs Brigitte Rollett, was asked for an opinion, which says: “The question of whether the time in the prison for children is a disadvantage is more like the development psychologist Brigitte Rollett from the University of Vienna. ‘If the mother can carry out her duties, it is safe for the child to be better with the mother’, says Rollet.’ ‘It is particularly bad when this bond is established and then the separation takes place’, says the psychologist. That means, what do you want? – Do you want the parents to get pushed and the children to the children’s home or to nurses’ parents that they are separated? You really want that? That's what you want? Just because the four parties in this House want it, it doesn't get better or better. You need to take a closer look at this. A achievement of the Penal Enforcement Act – once again: § 74 para. 2 – Because of your point of view, your strict, simple view is taken with feet, although this is a humane solution in the Austrian execution of the sentence. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In this way you have to say almost: Think about how you vote here, because You're putting a very bad sign here! This can be a disadvantage to imprisoned mothers. But that's probably the meaning of what you really want here. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Korun.]] That's your humane way, Mrs. Korun. These are the good people in Austria. But not really! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e20837	Mrs Windbüchler-Sushill is speaking as the last speaker on this item in the agenda. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e20859	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I notice: FPÖ wants to see children in prison, to know the abolition of the relieved drug and to end any Juvenile Penalty. [[Abg. Ing. Tanja, please! Come on! There's no such thing as that!]] [[Live calls to the FPÖ.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, the petition that was signed is: “You have it in your hand! If you do not want children to continue to land in prisons, you should finally fully include the Convention on Child Law in the Constitution. If you do not want children to continue to be pushed and families torn apart, then you have to set a mark and demand a new right of foreigners.” This was signed by SPÖ, ÖVP, Greens and BZÖ, and this is what this debate is about and not about the execution of punishment and how mothers who have been sentenced can raise their children. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Strache: Children are not in detention!]] There is still a need for action on the part of children. That is, I think, not to discuss away in this house, because it is. 270 000 children and young people under the age of 20 are at risk of poverty in Austria, one of the richest OECD countries. According to UNICEF study 2010, the health data of children and adolescents are at last compared to all European countries. And if you remember correctly, then you know that in the course of the debate on the Federal Constitutional Law on the Rights of Children in Austria, we have just discussed Article 7, the retention of the law, which does not comply with exactly the principles of non-discrimination. Mrs. Minister! As a Lower Austrian, you are used to knowing and dealing with all children's rights in the country's constitution. At the federal level, however, it does not look that way at all, because at that time only a few legislative texts were raised in the federal constitution. For this reason, and especially in the context of the evaluation of a foreign law law which does not provide for children's rights, I am submitting the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! A Children's Rights Monitoring Committee has not only been debated during the negotiations, but it is urgently necessary, on the one hand, to review the B-VG in itself, on the other hand, to evaluate all legislative initiatives and legislation that are already in place to see: How does child law really look like? What does it really look like with the laws that already exist? Where are the children really promoted? Where are they on the track? That's why such a monitoring committee definitely needs it. He must be independent, public, financially well supported to control all of this.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e20932	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e21033	No one is reporting on this. I therefore conclude the debate. Does one of the rapporteurs want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. We shall first proceed to the vote on agenda item 24: Proposal from the Committee on Internal Affairs to take note of its report 1344 of the Supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to do so to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Rosenkranz, ladies and gentlemen, on the improvement of the enforcement of foreign law standards. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Member. Korun, colleagues and colleagues on the implementation of the petition “A rapid human rights and humanitarian reform of Austrian foreign law”. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on Agenda item 25: Proposal from the Committee on Internal Affairs to take note of its report 1345 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this, to give a sign. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Korun, colleagues and colleagues on the implementation of the four-party petition "Children do not belong to prison". I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Windbüchler-Souschill, colleagues on Child Rights Monitoring Committee to review the implementation of the Federal Constitutional Law on the Rights of Children. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to give a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. [[19:29:48]] 26. Point Report of the Justice Committee on the Government Template (1252, e.g._Other Organiser Bundesgesetz, which amends the Stock Act, the Division Act, the EU Merger Act, the GmbH Act, the SE Act, the Company Book Act, the Deposit Act, the Capital Correction Act and the Court Fees Act (Society Law 2011 – Geschreibungsgesetz 2011) (1278 d.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e21155	We're coming to 26. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Magnificent came to speak. Stadler. 10 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e21182	Mr President. High house! Mrs. Federal Minister! First of all, good news. We will agree to the social law amendment law, with the exception of the part in which it concerns the flat rate, because it is a repair law, in which one sees that the information at that time – I think they have been made under the budget accompanying law – does not keep it. By the way, we have today the series of such proposals from the Committee on Justice, in which the information was simply not kept. It's all being postponed. Here you have to put in place the flat rate, which means that you will be able to meet the citizens with the fees, from 1st century onwards. ==References== ==References== We do not support this, so we will also call for a separate vote. In addition, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen, the cost of copying – and this will be confirmed by everyone, especially the lawyers – are simple and simply scandalous. 1 € for a copy, this is Wucher. That's really Wucher, stately tolerated, state-run vomit! Ladies and gentlemen! Today's company law change matter is based on an EU directive based on the audit results of the Financial Action Task Force, whereby States – in the broadest sense – are stopped to fight against economic corruption. Mrs. Federal Minister! Because this is the case today, I am taking this matter as an opportunity to point out a case of economic crime which is obviously to be covered by your cabinet. I would like to point out that on 26 May, the European Parliament adopted a resolution on this issue. June of this year – that is, a few days ago – in the “Kurier” – this is a newspaper that the ÖVP is not far from – a full-page article has been published in the economic section, in which the names of the suspects are also reported in the Rettberg-1 process, i.e. in the Libro-1 process... [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Sorry, she just doesn't listen! ... actually a problem! She should actually listen!]] Mrs. Federal Minister, I address you directly. [[the speaker turns to Federal Minister Dr. Karl, who is standing next to the government bank in a conversation]] Do you want to keep holding your coffee wrench? – Then I ask you to interrupt the meeting, Mr President. [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Karl.]] That's from the old clothes collection. I'll address you to your cabinet chief, Puller, and you'll make Small Talk. [[Unrest.]] So, please, we're happy to interrupt the meeting. [[Abg. Grill: Whether she's standing or sitting,...!]] We are happy to interrupt the session. Mr President, I request that the...
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e21260	Mr Stadler, I assume, first of all, that Mrs Bundesminister listens, and secondly, she can certainly do more than just one thing at the same time. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] Go ahead, please!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e21285	So here we have a minister, whose cabinet covers the procedure, that three economic criminals are removed from a draft indictment, which includes six persons. Mr. Lind is one of them, from the Rettberg-1 process or Libro-1 process. This action of the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office was approved at the time by the Ministry of Justice, which is embarrassing enough. On the fact that this fine gentleman, who has damaged the Austrian Chamber of Commerce, the Vienna Chamber of Commerce and the social security pension fund with at least €20 million – the Chamber of Commerce, so much for economic competence – was previously taken out of the indictment with incorrect arguments, reports the “Kurier” on 26 March. ==References== July 2011 – that is, three days ago – all the way. The secretary of the Federal Minister then sends to the “Kurier” a response, in which the recognizable false facts are repeated again and the “Kurier” it is assumed that it would have used false reporting or a tendency to report. First of all, you would have reason to make sure that the fine Mr. Puller looks at the facts in advance when he sends out the "Kurier" encounters. Secondly, they should ensure that it is clarified why a senior prosecutor's office comes up with the idea of a well-founded indictment with three suspects, three accused, the first of whom was already mentioned by Hansjörg Tengg in connection with the so-called Residence Real Estate Causa and which then appears again in the Libro-Causa to sue three – which are also legally condemned – and take three out. I would like to say something about the political background. The same goes here and damages the Austrian Chamber of Commerce, the Vienna Chamber of Commerce and the Social Security Pension Fund, and the Secretary of the Minister defends all of this with false arguments. I can prove to you if you want – I have the act here – that the reasons at that time for the public prosecutor's office Vienna Neustadt, including them in the indictment draft, were secured with documents in the act, with extensive documents. With bold, false arguments, three people who have a certain political area and obviously have good political connections were taken out of charge – defended by Mr. Puller, directly responsible for the cabinet of the Federal Minister. Ladies and gentlemen! These are three people who will then be fined again later, who will then in turn cause damage to the Chamber of Commerce Vienna, to the Austrian Chamber of Commerce and to the Pension Fund of Social Security, and no one will react. I give you a parliamentary question on this subject; there are a few others. The prosecutor's office will have a great joy with it. Mr Pleischl told me at a meeting of the prosecutors that he was so amusing about my requests. I said you could increase the entertainment. He's getting parliamentary questions from me now on. Ladies and gentlemen! These parliamentary questions will show that here, simply and simply specifically, three people have been removed from the indictment, the prosecutor's office wanted to resist, the prosecutor's office had good reasons to raise these charges, and the decision of the court in charge has been taken to ensure that certain people are not brought before the judges. This has happened – I admit – under Minister Gastinger. But that doesn't change the fact that it's a scandal. It does not change the fact that this scandal is to be worked out, and it does not change the fact that the people responsible for it are interested today. Ladies and gentlemen! That is the crucial point. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] So if you want to fight economic crime, start right away and make sure that those cases that are present as old loads in the ministry are not yet defended if you can read it in the newspaper, but that the newspaper reports are enough to finally deal with these people accordingly!
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e21366	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Ikrath. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e21398	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear colleagues! Mr Westenthaler, I think we should return to the matter now, namely the Company Law Amendment Act. [[Between call of the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] I am pleased – I do not hide this – that Mr Stadler has informed us that the BZÖ will also agree with the law. What I don't quite understand is his criticism of the Legisvakanz. The dates will be postponed by eight months. This may be felt as a small flaw, which Mr Stadler clearly sees – to me this seems negligible. [[Abg. May. Stadler: I just hear who was the defender of Mr. Lind! That brightens a lot!]] Anyway, it's nice that you agree to the law. Mr Stadler, I'm allowed to point you out one more time. We do two different things: On the one hand, an EU directive, and on the other hand, we are responding to a criticism from FATF, which has nothing to do with the EU directive. It is extremely beneficial for our companies to implement the EU Directive – and I am particularly grateful to the Federal Minister and to their officials – because this brings about a substantial administrative burden in the area of the re-establishment law, where companies merge or split. We reduce seven information obligations or simplify them in such a way that there should be savings for companies that can be estimated up by € 1 million per year. This will strengthen the competitiveness of companies. This is worthwhile because otherwise they will experience the opposite: companies are increasingly burdened by various EU-side regulations. On the other hand, we are looking at the FATF's criticism, i.e. the international organisation that has written down money laundering and terrorism control on its flags, that the ownership structures of our stock companies – unless they are listed on the stock exchange – are not transparent enough if they issue ownership shares in whole or in part. It seems to me to be a very useful new classification that a company that is not listed will in future be required to base itself on name-shares. A reasonable conversion period will also be ensured. Overall, this is a law that brings greater transparency on the one hand and on the other hand a discharge from companies – that is, a really good law. That is why I would like to thank the Ministry of Justice once again.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e21438	Before I call on the next speaker, I will make sure that the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Stadler is sufficiently supported and under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e21502	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Jarolim. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e21523	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I think there is no too great adversities in the matter itself. There is a change in the Stocks Act here in order to better understand who belongs to shares in the future. Thus, names are to be introduced wherever companies are not listed. These must be entered in the stockbook. Thus, there is the greatest possible transparency on the ownership of companies and thus, in fact, a very good basis for necessary inspections. In addition, there are also improvements, simplifications – whether they are actually improvements, will be pending – in the case of formal regulations in the right of division and the right of re-establishment. This is about simplifying clearly overwhelming reports by various bodies, i.e. Supervisory Board, Executive Board and so on, and thus also unifying the respective cross-border transaction act. So here – and that was the case in the Committee – there is a broadest consensus on a reasonable legislative basis. I would just like to say something to Mr Stadler very briefly about these absurd accusations and conspiracy theories, which are so clearly put into space, because you are totally off-going of what is somehow real. [[Call at BZÖ:We are learning more!]] Mr President, I should like to thank There is a difference as to whether you can prove something, whether you have facts, whether you have a proof situation, or whether you do not have it. In the present case – I don't know Mr. Lind or anyone else – there were statements by the Supreme Procuratorate, why there is a part of the Libro issue and not another part of it. That was checked by the ministry, and it was given quite. Making yourself – years later – and claiming that this would be the greatest scandal of history, is just an all too transparent process. Mr Stadler! I would say that, with a certain number of basic legisla­tion here in Parliament, people are not to be informed, but to talk about what is actually a matter. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e21558	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Steinhauser. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e21579	Ladies and gentlemen! Today, a very interesting change in company law is being decided. A previous speaker from me was already mentioned that in the case of non-listed companies, the shares will no longer be issued as holding shares, but as registered shares. This means that the shares are no longer anonymous, But it is understandable who has the share, and it is possible to understand the flow of money. This is an essential measure in the fight against money laundering. This is not insignificant because Austria is a very attractive location for money laundering due to its geographical situation, tax laws and political stability. The estimates assume that the money laundering volume in Austria is around € 1 billion. It is therefore essential that money laundering can be better pursued in the framework of this measure. I think it is only striking that such measures will always be implemented in Austria if there is international criticism. This time it was the FATF that recommended that this measure be implemented in a test report. I remember a year ago when we discussed bank secrecy and loosened it, it was only possible because an international black list and a grey list were threatened. Nothing goes by itself. In the entire corruption debate, GRECO pressured that something was changing, textual MP corruption. We'll see how far we get now. We only note that this would be important measures, which will always work or be put into practice only if international pressure is exerted. I wonder why this is so, because Austria has nothing of it when the legal economy is undermined by the shadow economy, by criminal capital operating money laundering in Austria. I do not want criminal capital to be invested in Austria and criminally exerts influence on the Austrian economy. Therefore, I believe that there is a need for more attention and not a response when the pressure becomes so great internationally that you can't react differently. In this sense, we welcome today's measure. But I think a little more commitment would be useful and necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e21624	Mrs. Federal Minister Dr. Karl spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e21646	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The 2011 Company Law Amending Act is a package of measures aimed at making Austrian companies more competitive internationally. It is about the fact that administrative simplification in the event of re-establishment and also the creation of greater transparency in the ownership of stock companies can make savings of € 2 million annually for our Austrian companies. I would like to stress two measures in particular here. On the one hand, it is about the fact that the maximum transparency of the stock companies is really to be introduced, through a much clearer understanding of the ownership of shares in the stock companies. It will be achieved by ensuring that the name shares will be the standard instrument in the future. Only in listed companies will there be a choice between holding shares and registered shares. With this measure, Austria meets international requirements in the fight against money laundering. That was also an international requirement of FATF. The second major step in this package is simplification in the event of re-establishment. These are simplifications in terms of information and consultation obligations, because we need information and advice when re-establishing if they are to protect creditors, shareholders and shareholders. In areas where reporting obligations and information obligations do not pursue this purpose of protection and simply mean an overarching administration, they are to be withdrawn. This is ensured by this law. Overall, these measures mean a savings volume for our companies of € 2 million per year. We have also discussed these measures very intensively with representatives of science and practice and are convinced that we have achieved very good results here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e21688	No one is reporting on this. I therefore conclude the debate. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall vote on the draft law in 1278. Hiezu is a request of the honourable Member Mag. Stadler on separate vote. I shall therefore first vote on the parts of the draft law affected by the request for a separate vote and then on the remaining parts of the bill and receipt, which have not yet been voted on. I shall now proceed to the separate vote on a point of order. 9 Z 4a of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of it. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] – This is accepted by a majority. In this way, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. If you're here, I'll ask him for a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. – That is also unanimous. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Grosz, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Stadler, Schenk, Dr. Spadiut, List, colleagues on the implementation of independent initiatives of ÖVP Steiermark – part copy fees at court. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. [[19:51:06]] 27. Point Report by the Committee on Justice, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 1507/A by Mr Mag. Heribert Donnerbauer, Dr. Johannes Jarolim, colleagues concerning a federal law that amends the Criminal Code (StGB) and the Public Prosecutor's Act (1279 d. B.) 28. Point Report by the Committee on Justice, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 1580/A by Mr Mag. Heribert Donnerbauer, Dr. Johannes Jarolim, colleagues in a federal law that amends the Rules of Criminal Procedure in 1975 (1280 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e21801	We now come to the items 27 and 28 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mr Magistrate has spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Stefan. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e21829	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Two different topics are discussed here: One is related to the introduction of the corruption prosecutor's office. These are measures that we support because we have supported the corruption prosecutorship in itself. The second is supplements and improvements related to data storage. We have rejected them in principle, and we also reject these new changes. This simply does not change anything about the basic problem of data storage that data are stored on a flat-rate basis without any occasion, without suspicion, without a crime. The importance of resisting is demonstrated by how the European Union is doing on this issue. We have just implemented stock data storage in Austria. Next comes the storage of passenger data, to a very large extent. It's all being kept secret. By chance one learns that the Council of Ministers was already on the 11th. A decision was taken on April to store all passenger data from all flights within the EU with all related data for five years. One hears that there is resistance from the individual countries, but one sees how it is being acted. The Commission has already concluded an agreement with the United States on the exchange of such data for flights to the USA. There is a similar agreement with Australia that has not been reported at all. In any case, it is not available on the European Union's websites. That is how we act, and that is why we need the greatest resistance. It's always so beautiful: Be the beginnings! – We should have done that in the storage of data, but we must fight against it in a massive way at the latest. I am looking for support from the other parties as well – surprisingly – that our representatives in the framework of the European Union raise their voices and point out that human rights and fundamental rights are greatly restricted in this respect, that this is not objective and not in the sense of Austrian citizens.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e21868	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Donnerbauer. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e21889	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My previous speaker mentioned it: One is what was promised in the implementation of data storage, namely a change in the criminal code. The unlawful publication of stock records is sanctioned by criminal law with up to one year of imprisonment. This was also submitted in an own-initiative proposal as a follow-up measure on the occasion of the introduction of data storage. I now do not fully understand the attitude of the FPÖ. Even if you are against data storage, you can support a accompanying measure that is intended to provide additional protection. But please, it's your decision how you behave here. The second point which is under negotiation concerns the Public Prosecutor's Office for Economic and Corruption. In December, it was a very large extension of competence, and a number of crimes are now to be dealt with by the economic and corruption prosecutorship. It has been shown in recent months that it is more difficult than expected to find and train a sufficient number of prosecutors in this short period of time. It was important for us to be able to identify and bundled with the appropriate expertise in major economic procedures when introducing and extending the Economic and Corruptive Public Prosecutor's Office. If it turns out that it is not that easy to find a sufficient number of members, we are therefore in favour of a little delay in entry into force or a little reduction in the number of cases for a limited period of several months. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to take this opportunity to break a lance once for the public prosecutor and the staff of this important institution. This does not mean that no mistakes can happen there – whoever is flawless among us, he throws the first stone. If someone believes that he is flawless – there are also such in this house – then it is probably already suspicious in itself. All in all, the prosecutors and the employees of this authority fulfil a very important task, namely efficient prosecution. A few years ago, we took the right steps with the reorganisation of the criminal code, the preliminary procedure. It will now be a matter of considering very well and well on the basis of the present evaluation and various other data, where there are need for intensification and where this major reform has to be adapted and supplemented accordingly. I have already proposed that in autumn we might be dealing in a subcommittee on the Justice Committee to review these StPO novels on an objective and objective basis. Overall, thank you to the employees of the Public Prosecutor's Office who are doing a very important work in the interest of this Republic and the people of that Republic. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e21927	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Steinhauser. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e21950	Mr Donnerbauer, I have already told you: I am really glad that the relationship of the ÖVP to the public prosecutor's office has relaxed again, that you have already broken a lance for the prosecutor's office and thanked the employees. I just remember that Klubobmann's head meant two months ago that she is a state in the state with a tendency to a certain prepotence. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Petzner.]] So I am glad that there is some relaxation between the ÖVP and the prosecutor's office. The truth is somewhere in the middle. We need a certain amount of reform in the public prosecutor's office. The statements of the colleague's head are probably a little too sharp. Mr Donnerbauer, in so far as I understand that you are distanced from it. But back to the real topic: The fact that the greens are critical of data storage and have not changed anything in this assessment will be clear to all. The storage of data was and is an approachless preventive monitoring without the data subjects being blamed. The only thing to blame them is – I have said it before – that they use mobile phones and the Internet. I am convinced that the stock data storage violates Article 8 EMRK. Nevertheless, it is always interesting to discuss the subject. Recently, an expert from the Ministry of the Interior said to me: How are you now? You're against data storage. Are you opposed to any form of combating Internet crime? You have to look more closely if you want to answer this question. That's where Germany helps. I looked at the figures in Germany again. In the last debate, we knew that prior to the introduction of stock data storage, the reconnaissance rate was about the same as after the introduction of stock data storage. In other words, data storage has not made a significant contribution to the investigation of criminal offences. ==References== In March 2010, the highest court in Germany cancelled the storage of data. It shall not apply. I've been thinking now, you have to look at what's changed. What is criminal statistics in Germany? Now, according to some, the important instrument of data storage is missing. The reconnaissance rate would have to be reduced because the storage of data is such an important means. What happened? – According to criminal statistics in Germany, around three-quarters of all Internet criminal offences were detected in 2010 as well. This is an enormously high education rate, it has even increased. For comparison: Criminal offences outside the Internet are being resolved in Germany only 53 percent. That is to say, at least in Germany, data storage obviously does not play an essential role in the question of how high the education rate is. Without data storage, the awareness rate in Germany increased in 2010. The conclusion can only be that there is obviously no significant link between the investigation rate – both in the case of Internet criminal offences and other criminal offences – and whether there is data storage as a means or not. On today's bill: There are three points. The first to deal with data storage is a criminal provision for the unlawful publication. We will be reading this sentence at second reading. She's right. The second measure, the four-eye principle among the prosecutors, when certain stock data are retrieved, does not convince me. I already said it in committee: This is about as if one says to the ÖVP that we are now introducing a four-eye principle between Pilz and Steinhauser, they will examine together so that they do not make undue sharp inquiries to ÖVP ministers. They'll smile mildly. There is nothing else if a four-eye principle is introduced in an authority where there are instructive and wise employees. Mutual control is not the same as if it were judicial control. We support the last point, the shift in the corruption prosecutor's office, because there is obviously no alternative to that. But it is – let us say it carefully – at least a small blamage, because in the budget accompanying law it is obvious that it has been miscalculated. In this sense, we will reject the provisions on data storage at third reading for fundamental considerations and support the relocation of the corruption prosecutor's office. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e22014	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Jarolim. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e22036	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! As for data storage as a whole, it must be remembered that it is the implementation of an EU directive. There was also a long discussion. At the time of the decision-making, we knew that it was being evaluated. Therefore, in our decisions, we have consistently decided on the evaluation, i.e. the review of this law, in order to be able to re-adjust the potential for change and experience of the EU directive by means of a directive. I mean, you can't do any more to make sense in the legal framework. I do not understand the criticism that simply ignores the need to implement a directive. The fact that we have consistently taken precautions by introducing the four-eye principle to the prosecutors in order to make the investigation measures take special care and have a second look at it is a quality feature. I do not understand at all why one pretends to be a group of persons who are totally different from the judges. We have just included the prosecutors in the Constitution. [[Abg. May. Stadler: That was another Pleischl-Böhmdorfer proposal!]] With the new StPO-Novelle, we have created a new system within the judicial system, and we now have to implement it consistently. Ladies and gentlemen! That's what we do in the end. As for the last item on the agenda, it is, of course, sad that we need a delay in implementing the new economic and corruption prosecutorship – no question. This is due, however, to the fact that in the past two years staffing and post-recruitment have apparently not taken place, for whatever reason. Now we cannot see sighting eyes into a problem that goes into a dilemma that the prosecutor authorities in the new organization cannot handle. Therefore, this staged entry into force comes with the consequence that we achieve the same goal just a few months later. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e22072	Next, Mr Magistrate. Stadler to speak. 10 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e22094	Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Jarolim, the inclusion of the prosecution in the article 90a of our federal constitution – and then in this unfortunate formulation – was also such an invention of Pleischl-Böhmdorf. By the way, I have just learned that Mr Lind's lawyer, Mr Böhmdorfer, the former Minister of Justice, was already in this first procedure, which I have already mentioned. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Oh that?! Interesting!]] That's all right. If you know all the ropes, the picture will be rounded off. Mrs. Federal Minister! We'll talk more about this anyway, I'll tell you today. The fact that I am going to the agenda is certainly not to be expected. [[Rejoicing with Federal Minister Dr. Karl.]] - Yeah, you're gonna lose your laugh. If you don't act differently when you go to the glue, you'll reap a lot of mess. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen, now on this matter of law: The first part, this intensification, we carry along. That is why we are also grateful that the Greens have called for a separate vote. We'll carry this part. We do not support the second part of this novel, which concerns this so-called four-eye principle. What is the principle of a four-eye principle when a prosecutor from the same authority participates in a decision which the colleague has already made? After that, I look at how that makes him imaginative. This criminal competence package and the postponement of the date to the 1. September 2012 are further unfortunate laws from this – yes, as I shall say – sloppy form in the law-making of the budget accompanying laws. We have simply put Parliament in a position to do things that the apparatus is unable to do. There you can see again – and it's like a red thread – that you can't take over the things the government does and can't believe. I just heard Mr Donnerbauer sing the song of praise to the Public Prosecutor's Office. Mr Donnerbauer! First of all, I'd be a little more careful, and second, your clubman sees this completely different. I'm more on the side of your clubman Karlheinz's head, who said it was a state in the state. We have experienced at the prosecutor's meeting in Kössen one or one and a half weeks ago how quickly Mr Donnerbauer distanced himself from his own clubman to make himself popular with the prosecutors. He said: No, he doesn't share this assessment at all. He was then a bit horrified at the fact that Mr Pleischl, who was, as it were, the mentor of this event, said: No, no, he's quite the opinion of my colleague's head, he feels like a state in the state. He believes that the prosecution would be a state in the state. I thought I was not hearing right – the state in the state under the leadership of Mr Pleischl as the head of state. No, thanks, we don't need that. This has nothing to do with the democracy of this country. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] As we are just talking a little bit about the prosecutors, I would like to tell you just how Mr. President Pleischl introduces himself to the state in the state. This is covered by the assessment of your colleague's head, your clubman. I started some time ago to show the story in connection with the Causa Kampusch. I'm not going to the Causa Kampusch now. After a long period of time, the Minister has agreed to ensure that the case is clarified again in a Western prosecutor's office, in Innsbruck's prosecutor's office, and a judge has been set up. This investigator has now carried out extensive investigations. I do not want to tell you what they have done, the results are not entirely without. [[Call to the ÖVP: That can't be!]] In spite of public announcement, he then invited the prosecutors concerned as accused, namely the Chief Prosecutor Mühlbacher from Graz and the head of the Supreme Prosecutor's Office in Vienna, Dr. Pleischl. One has publicly announced that of course he will be very happy to cooperate with the investigative judge and prosecutor in Innsbruck. Do you know what happened yesterday? Both originally did not want to come at all. As a result, the judge had to threaten the demonstration with the police to a head of the Vienna Supreme Procuratorate and the head of the Graz Procuratorate. The gentlemen finally made it to Innsbruck to make a statement there, ladies and gentlemen. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] So now I want to know something, Mr Jarolim. You said: No, we can't imagine everything, and that doesn't have a substance. – The fact is that the investigations in Innsbruck are already in place, that both gentlemen did not want to come at first, because – state in the state – you decide for yourself when you come, while the little hendldieb is of course brought by the police. The judge told them that he warned them that he would treat them like any other accused person, and he would have them present with the police. They then made it to Innsbruck to get away from the statement, and it is known that both have even spoken out against a video recording and have requested that the video recording be stopped. That can make a witness, but no accuser. So that means: I, Pleischl, I, Mühlbacher, claim special rights, because we are state in the state – quod erat demonstrandum. So it was what your clubman said, much closer to the reality of these people's thinking than what you represent. These people believe that they decide who is being charged in this country and who is not, as the friends like to have. They decide whether or not they can be interested in themselves. They decide whether or not to take part in a procedure, and then they decide how to proceed with them. That is why, Mrs Federal Minister, I ask you to suspend these two gentlemen until the investigation procedures have been completed. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] In any other country, ladies and gentlemen, officials who are so massively suspected and are no longer even willing to participate in the investigation – because state in the state – would be suspended immediately. I ask you, Mrs Federal Minister, that you suspend both gentlemen from their functions until the end result is present. I would also ask you to ensure that not the same people in your ministry now decide whether or not to charge, because there is a project report to you that has already contributed to the decision that is in Innsbruck today. Not that they decide whether they have decided correctly at the time or not, whether they are right for Mr Pleischl and the Mühlbacher to do so. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Carousel!]] Glue has gone or not. That means we're going to look very closely. That's what we're really looking at. Leave You're on it! I'm going to tell you today: A public prosecutor who doesn't have this self-cleaning force that's required here, I don't trust. I have had enough experience in the Committee of Inquiry, ladies and gentlemen, and I have seen what has been listed there, despite the constitutional situation, despite the clear legal situation, despite clear provisions, and what they have not listed in a different context with a minister. I am convinced today that the ÖVP would have been happy if it had already been caught and had not been allowed to work in the European Union to be made public by British media, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Control!]] That is why the lobbyist law is in political discussion. That is, as long as the apparatus does not prove to me, Mrs. Federal Minister, that he has the self-cleaning power necessary, which is also evident in the self-cleaning requirements relating to the will scandal in Vorarlberg, I do not trust him. That's not an ID card for self-cleaning. There were 300 testimonies. Imagine that! And then you complain: The policy is that the reputation of justice is so bad. This device only has a chance to gain a better reputation for the population if the self-cleaning forces actually work. It is only the beginning of self-cleaning that, like Mr Pleischl or Mr Mühlbacher, who even refuses to participate in the Enlightenment of History in Innsbruck, authorities do not even want to come to suspend immediately from their functions, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ and Abg. Jury.]] Ceterum censeo: We need a subcommittee in this House to examine the activity or inactivity of the public prosecutors, ladies and gentlemen, because we will have to examine the individual case there, otherwise we will depend on doing so, otherwise we will insist that we do so on parliamentary questions. So if you want to improve, we must set up this committee, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e22220	Mrs. Federal Minister Dr. Karl spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e22242	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The current legislative changes are about two measures, one about data storage and the other about the economic and corruption prosecutorship. Let me start with the first point. In the context of the implementation of the EU Supply Data Storage Directive, it is also necessary to extend the protection against misuse of information related to this process. Such data information from the prosecutors should therefore be strictly arranged in accordance with the four-eye principle and persons who are not entitled to publish stored data can be charged with a term of imprisonment of up to one year or a fine of up to 360 daily rates. With regard to the newly established economic and corruption prosecutorship, it is planned that the focus will first be on medium- and severe economic and corruption crime, namely economic crime with particularly high damage, corruption and balance sheet counterfeiting by companies with over €5 million of capital or more than 2000 employees. These cases are already scheduled for the new Special Public Prosecutor's Office by 1. ==References====External links==* Official website ==References====External links== The aim is to prevent the risk that not all Planning Offices of the Public Prosecutor’s Office may be occupied on a timely basis. In addition, the changes also offer the possibility to build the new structures of the economic and corruption prosecutor's office under incomplete utilization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e22278	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Hakl. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e22300	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! In addition to the criminal provision I consider absolutely necessary for the abuse of data from the storage of stocks, I would like to address the data storage of stocks in principle, because the question of what we actually need has not yet been illuminated. I would like to remind you that even in small offences, for example, Stalking, this issue is of importance. Stalking is a crime committed mainly via the Internet, mainly via mobile phone. It is a crime that comes to light when the person concerned is already completely mentally broken – I have met such people – and then the perpetrator has to be determined. It can't be that the police just tell such a person: We're sorry, we don't have the data, they won't give us, they don't have to be saved. You're wrong, we can't do anything. We know that we will continue to introduce our own crime in the near future: grooming. This is the start of sexual contact between adults, mostly men, with children via the Internet. In these cases too, it will be imperative to investigate the perpetrators. These are not the very serious offences I am talking about, but those where traceability in a rule of law must always be possible. I'm anything but a strict law-and-order state fighter – quite the contrary – but it can't be that a state just says sluggish: We're sorry! Nothing to do! The Internet is right-free! Just because there's the Internet now, it can't be that in a crime that brings people to the brink of the abyss, the children are sexual attacks. Extrusion, swirling the weapons and saying: Well, that's the Internet. We're just not doing anything. That's what we're looking at. On the other hand, I must say that the air passenger data transfer to the USA and now also to Australia has been transferred from my personal point of view from the European Council. In particular, the storage duration of five and a half years does not make sense. However, I would like to say that the European Parliament has been working there and that these passenger data are already anonymized after a single month. This means that, although there is the possibility to evaluate anonymously and abstractly over the duration of five and a half years, the data are no longer personally attributable to the individual passenger. This is also said for the defence of the European Parliament. However, I assume that the European Court of Justice and the Court of Human Rights will continue to deal, in particular, with the long storage period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e22348	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Mulder. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e22369	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to comment briefly on Amendment No 1580, on the postponement of the jurisdiction of the Public Prosecutor's Office. The Minister also explained why this should be so, and above all there is a danger that not all posts may be filled with staff in time. I think that the human situation is indeed also breaking the head, and this is not at all a criticism of the woman's minister, but it is a great interest of the ministry to include very good lawyers and economic experts in this corruption prosecutorship. This also shows the fact that only seven of 55 applicants could be taken over. For this reason, because I consider this to be so important, this shift in competence is also quite acceptable if you want to get the best possible experts and then they should also have the means to work effectively. I would just like to point out two points in this connection. One is a document from the Association of Austrian Prosecutors, which I consider very important. I also think that there must be a very constructive discussion in this context, because if the law should be maintained and the economic and corruption prosecutor's office should not be established for human reasons, then it would be a damage to justice and, of course, to politics. The other is a series of demands presented by our Judge Jarolim for Social Democracy, which are again about the human resources of the prosecutors and above all about increasing and improving training. I think that there is a point that seems very important to me, namely, more attractive jobs for the prosecutors, who should offer various incentives, so that they do not take the case that the prosecutors change their position during an ongoing procedure, because that only means extending the procedures. Overall, I think it is a very important step towards improving the environment in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e22412	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Nice to meet you. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e22433	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! There is no doubt that the implementation of the EU Directive on the storage of data in the debate is not quite unproblematic. But despite all the problems, despite all legitimate criticism, despite all – where it is meant to be honest – legitimate concern must be given to these rules: They are trying to solve a relatively new but more real legal problem. The question is how to deal with such an anonymized and we call it “low-track” criminal acts, namely in the field of telecommunications and in the area of the Internet, where the responsibility for criminal offences is challenged, where there is a legal space. If you don't leave any traces, you can't be held responsible either. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we believe that it is normative to keep the state open the possibility of ensuring that there is a trace in these areas as well. Granted, due to the disappearance of anonymity there is a clear intervention into the freedom of the individual. The risk of abuse must also be taken into account. But the outcome of today's debate on the follow-up measures is satisfactory. The result offers maximum protection for citizens from excessive intervention by the state and from abuse. The introduction of the four-eye principle and the criminality of prohibited publications also correspond to the demands of the opposition and, as has been said, protect citizens from abuse. Ladies and gentlemen! Against any kind of security regime, the State will not be particularly favourable in the long run. There is a substantial difference between practical scientific considerations and concerns and actual political threats. Here we have such a case. Mr Stadler! Given your speeches yesterday, today and in expectation of your contributions tomorrow: The political outrage is a scarce asset, which one should hardly use, for otherwise one has a problem of credibility. But you seem to have already put that ad acta. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e22468	Next speaker: Mr Scheibner. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e22489	Mr President. Dear colleague! I would just like to ask the Federal Minister whether you are speaking about Mag. Stadler was listening. [[Federal Minister Dr. Karl: Yes, I have!]] - Yeah, but you didn't think of it. [[Federal Minister Dr. Karl: Is the topic of the debate?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Worm.]] Mrs Bundesminister, I cannot, of course, give you any instructions on how you can react to Members' speeches. That is of course. Suppose there is an area in which you are active, that doesn't even have to be a ministry, but a club or any group, and if this group is massively criticized by someone from outside and there are suspicions against members of that group, and this question is asked to you as a chairman, as a representative of this group, and then you don't think of any word for it, then I really wonder: What kind of official understanding do you have? [[Inter-call at BZÖ.]] Dear colleague Jarolim, chattering Not all of you! [[Abg. May. Stadler: The judge said that!]] It is about the fact that a very important institution in a rule of law, the judicial system, is suspected of simply not acting in accordance with the principles of the rule of law, and the competent Federal Minister does not understand this at all. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] If the Federal Minister says that's all that's wrong, and she's standing in front of her staff and saying, All this is being clarified, I am convinced that this is all wrong, these are unsustainable accusations of the opposition!, and one criticizes that, okay, then let's go into this discussion. But that as Minister of Justice, there is nothing in any way other than what has been clearly prepared, Mr Jarolim, speaks volumes. For either it is true and the minister will clarify it or she wants to cover it, then it is scandalous because the judicial system itself has the right and many righteous prosecutors, judges have the right to protect the reputation of justice if there are individual cases that do not comply with the laws. That's what the Minister has to explain. Or if it is not true, these judicial officials, judges and prosecutors also have the right and the claim that the Minister of Justice is standing before her. But if it does not do one or the other, it is not in place in this function. [[In the case of the BZÖ, as well as the members of the FPÖ.]] Mrs Bundesminister, only this is the point of this speech; You still have time. There's still words coming. I'm sorry I stopped them a little bit. [[Call the SPÖ:Where, please? It wasn't important...!]] . I think it is important, Mr. Cot. You know very well that the reputation of justice, the confidence in justice in recent years, has suffered for a variety of reasons. This is a worrying state. We all here as representatives of the population, as legislators, but above all the competent Minister of Justice should make it our goal to strengthen this reputation of justice, trust in justice and to address these problems. However, it is necessary that, if there are such serious suspicions, these are clarified that, if there are errors, those responsible have to bear the consequences that are being dealt with. If it is not true, this should also be set out here accordingly. We all hope and are convinced that the majority, including those in the judicial system, are complying with the laws and working according to the principles of the rule of law. But this is your responsibility, Mrs. Justice Minister, and we expect it from you! Mrs. Minister, you've got a few minutes left. You can now continue to say that this is not a subject that does not interest me, but then we will draw our respective conclusions. And believe me, Mr Stadler will then do what you really need to do, because he will make his contribution to clarifying these suspicions.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e22591	Next speaker: Mr Wenninger. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e22613	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr Scheibner, if I had known that this would be a questionable hour for you, and not a contribution to the present draft legislation, then we would not have handled it this way. But it's important, of course, what you said: The loss of confidence of the population and also of the media in the judiciary has been affecting us here in this House for months and years. It is therefore particularly important to stress that the novels we are deciding today include those clarifications which, on the one hand, we have promised when we decided to store data, and what we have agreed to today when we set up the economic and corruption prosecutors' office. These are points where we believe that we are not only redeeming the opposition parties against what we have formulated in motions for resolutions, but also the population: the four-eye principle of data collection, criminal provisions for abuse et cetera and also a competent economic and corruption attorneyship. It is about officials and officials investigating the major economic crime cases, which also have the corresponding team capacity, which have the international know-how and which also have the opportunity and the competence to explain these offences. When it comes to restoring confidence in justice, of course, it is on the one hand the minister who will take what is being discussed here, what is being asked what is being put into the room, into her place, as will all the other ministers, and will discuss it there. But the other question is: How does politics deal with justice? Is what is currently happening in some media reports this rapid media coverage, where one wants to have results from one day to the other, but which is often contrary to necessary investigations, sustainable for justice? Is this also the wish of some opposition politicians, especially Mr Stadler, who is putting something in the room and wants to complete the procedure immediately or who wants concrete answers in the current procedure? This also does not help to strengthen confidence in independent justice. I believe that we all share the democratic responsibility to criticise misdemeanors in justice, but at the same time we must do everything we can to make it better. The concrete legal decisions on criminal order, criminal code and prosecution law take us a big step further.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e22650	The next item is the speech by Mr Wittmann. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e22673	Mr President. Mrs Bundesminister, I would like to clear up with a misunderstanding. We have not only implemented the EU Directive when it comes to data storage, we have gone far beyond that. And it was really a limit, because because of an imaginary enemy we now store so many data and make so many laws, out of fear of something that is actually not present. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. May. Stefan.]] We went far beyond that. And I have only been able to agree because we have been promised that the unjust and forbidden publication of such collected data will be punished and that the contract contains the four-eye principle. And that is what he receives with these two changes in the law in the criminal code and in the criminal order. But we must not start to make laws in front of an imaginary enemy, where we will suddenly come up with them – and there we have to take our own noses – so that this is designed to declare “animal wreaths” to be a terrorist club! That can't be! We have to start to be more careful about sharing data. There I am with colleague Hakl. When I hear: five and a half years of flight data transfer to the USA – you have to stop the fear from ruling somewhere. We must ensure a life without fear in this Republic. [[As a result, the Commission has not yet received any comments from interested parties.]] We cannot make social policy exclusively on criminal terms, we must say goodbye to it and not always argue with an imaginary enemy here. We need to be more careful about these stories, and we must become very bright when further measures are being taken, because I think it is also reached by the ceiling somewhere under human law.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e22719	Mrs. Federal Minister Dr. Karl spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e22740	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Westenthaler spoke of confidence in justice. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: I didn't say anything!]] - Please apologize: Mr Scheibner spoke of confidence in justice, at least someone from the same party. Trust in justice is also a matter of respect for justice, and I also call for respect for justice, and therefore also call for the possibility of legal proceedings being abandoned, and not interference in ongoing proceedings. I do not interfere in ongoing proceedings, and I do not see it as my duty as Minister of Justice to comment on ongoing proceedings and intervene in ongoing proceedings. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The procedures referred to by Mr Stadler are ongoing procedures, and I do not want and cannot anticipate the results. And we cannot hide anything in this respect either, because every attitude in this matter will also be examined by the Legal Protection Officer. So it's not a question of hiding, no matter what it is about not showing mistakes, pushing wrongs under the cover or somehow concealing them. On the contrary! If there are sins, there will also be the necessary consequences. But, of course, first of all, it is necessary to examine whether these errors actually exist, and this is not being examined here in Parliament, but in the procedures provided for them before our courts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e22790	Second word: Mr Mag. Stadler. - Please. [[Congratulations on the part of BZÖ representatives.]] 10 minutes are set. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e22817	Mrs. Federal Minister! I am now presenting you with an APA message, and then I allow myself to ask you a very simple question. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Jarolim.]] Mr Jarolim, my previous speaker! “In the investigation procedure against five prosecutors for suspecting the abuse of office in the case of Natascha Kampusch, Innsbruck investigator Georg Putz intends to submit the results of the evidence at the end of July to the Public Prosecutor’s Office Innsbruck. This was explained by Putz of the APA on Wednesday in Innsbruck. In the last week, two accused persons, the head of the Vienna Supreme Procuratorate (OStA), Werner Pleischl, and the head of the Graz Procuratorate and former special mediators were consulted at the Causa Kampusch, Thomas Mühlbacher. Both had taken the statement ‘surprisingly’ for him, explained Putz. . Especially at Mühlbacher, I was surprised. However, he had actually announced in advance that he would like to comment extensively,” said the investigating judge. Putz also said that the two prosecutors originally “did not want to come at all”. "But when I threatened them to have them presented in such a case like any other accused person," the judge explained. Pleischl had submitted a written opinion in advance, but it was ‘very superficial’, said Putz.” Now my simple question to you, Mrs Federal Minister, and this has nothing to do with ongoing procedures: Are you of the opinion that, like any other citizen, your Heads of Government should engage in an investigation process where possible, or not? Are you of this opinion? That would only interest me. That's an opinion, you don't need to let anything be prescribed. That's a question I'm just saying and just... She personally as a minister: Are you of the opinion that it is correct for a prosecutor's office to inform the media before a house search, and I am not really suspected of being a special friend of Mr. Karl-Heinz Grasser – that there is a big media rumour there when the house search starts? Are you of the opinion that this is correct? - I didn't invent that. It's all public. This is not a interference of the Ewald Stadler, nor are these unproven claims, but it is an APA message. The investigating judge Putz will already know what he's saying. I'm convinced the man had no hallucinations. Are you of the opinion that officials have to participate in investigation procedures, especially when it comes to child injury, yes or no? Are you of the opinion that it is right for the judges to conduct media stagings before a house search, yes or no? Are you of the opinion that it is correct for a public prosecutor to try to make policy against an opposition party by initiating investigations against the employees of this opposition party, although a constitutional provision is opposed? Do you think that's correct, yes or no? - Not even invented by me. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Parliament staff!]] Parliamentary staff, small from a press department who dared to send out a speech by Mr Westenthaler as a press release. Do you think that's correct, yes or no? These are simple questions of proven facts, not claims by the Ewald Stadler. Faith You're telling me: Especially in the story with Natascha Kampusch and the processes that have not been clarified to this day, I will not let go of them! I tell you, if you have the same attitude, the You celebrate here today, continue to transport, then you are opposed to what your predecessor was. Her predecessor was, at least on the question of child protection, a giant. I'm not sure where I'm going to settle you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e22865	No one is reporting on this. I therefore conclude the debate. Does one of the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. We shall first proceed to the vote on agenda item 27: Draft federal law amending the Criminal Code and the Public Prosecutor's Act (1279 of Supplements). There is a request from the honourable Member for this. Steinhauser on separate vote. I shall therefore first vote on the parts of the draft law affected by the request for a separate vote and then on the remaining parts of the bill and receipt, which have not yet been voted on. I shall immediately be voting separately on Article 2 of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report and shall seek the approval of those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of it. – This is accepted by a majority. In this way, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. Whoever is for this, I ask him for a sign. – This is also adopted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who also want to vote in favour of the draft law at third reading. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 28: Draft federal law, which amends the Rules of Criminal Procedure 1975, including title and receipt (1280 of the Supplements). I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, in order to give an indication of this. – That too is the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[20:43:00]] 29. Point Report by the Committee on Justice, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 1389/A by Mr Mag. Heribert Donnerbauer, Dr. Johannes Jarolim, colleagues concerning a federal law which lays down a federal law on the authorisation to take over the reimbursement of the refrigerant disposal contributions and repeals the Federal Law on the Return of the Refrigeration of the Refrigerating Equipment Disposal Contributions of Consumers (1281 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e22960	We'll get to the 29th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Hübner spoke. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e22987	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I’m not going to continue the Stadler’s ministerial interrogation, I can say that now, but I’m going to join a little on the subject. [[Abg. Head: There's certainly another question hour for him!]] So I'm going to add a little bit to the subject matter. We have now talked about the credibility and the sincerity of justice and the reputation of the people. This should apply not only to justice, but also to the legislative ones, and to this item on the agenda, which sounds rather insignificant – it is about the problem of cooling equipment disposal contribution – this problem, I believe, is there. What's this about? – It is about the amounts that have been collected by each buyer of a refrigeration unit in the early 1990s, in other words loyally by a private company. These amounts were managed by a UFH Umweltforum Hause GmbH & Co. KG, respectively, and there we almost come back to state printing from yesterday, a behind-standing UFH Umweltforum Haus Privatstiftung. These funds should actually be reimbursed if you prove the proper disposal of the refrigerator and return the vignette. This, not unexpectedly, is not happening in many cases and is not happening at all now after the whole system has come into force. In the pot of this private company, there is now an unknown sum which, according to my information, is not determined, which is actually the loyal property of the buyers of the cooling equipment from 1992 to 2005. Good – what to do? Here is now the legislative proposal, which provides for the Republic of Austria to take over all claims against a one-off payment of 21 million by the said private companies and in connection with this pledge history. In other words, it covers on the one hand all-favourable claims of returned vignettes from refrigerators, but it also damages and complains against the companies mentioned against the demands of the refrigerator buyers. It would be nice if the whole thing had been examined. However, according to information from the Committee, this has not been done, but the current legal situation under Article 50 of the Federal Accompanying Act has provided that the legal entities concerned today are obliged to take account of the evidence collected since the entry into force of the Regulation at the request of the Federal Government. This was not required for our information. That is to say, we now decide to take over some 21 million loyal assets in state ownership and release those who have managed this from liability without any billing and without further explanations. This is not, I believe, a clean legal system and, in the sense of the pre-judgment debate, not acceptable either. That is why we will not, of course, agree here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e23024	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Hammer. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e23045	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! We have a subject to conclude today, and it also concludes today's plenary session, which has been a long-standing issue, namely the regulation of the so-called cooling equipment disposal contribution, the cooling equipment or refrigerator pickerl. Dear Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, you can, of course, beat any subject of murder, but on this issue it is obvious that there was a need for a solution. It is simply the original system of the coolant picker, which was invented at a time when it was also entitled and its services were performed, because there are other models and because simply not all contributions could be refunded and therefore the corresponding amounts remain in this Environmental Forum budget. I think it makes sense that there is a common solution here in order to avoid a longer-term dispute, and it has succeeded that at least 24 million for meaningful measures also come to the public budget, to the budget, and so – and this is clearly said – this money also benefits citizens, including those who have paid the cooling equipment disposal fees, through return and detours. I would like to make it clear once again: All those who still want to redeem this cooler picker have the opportunity to do so for another ten years. That is to say, no one who wants to do so will die, and anyone in the Environment Forum can still ask for these contributions for ten years. And since this has been addressed: Of course, there are remaining amounts in this environmental forum. There are contributions for the refund and also for the repayment of this refund, and it is of course our task to see in the future that these funds are also used accordingly. To sum up, I think, this is a right and important solution that also brings people something. Nobody falls around his cooler pickerl, and therefore we will decide on this solution accordingly.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e23086	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Steinhauser. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e23109	Ladies and gentlemen! It has already been said: Until 2005, a waste management voucher had to be paid for when buying a refrigeration unit. Then came an EU directive that provided for free disposal. And with that, already paid vouchers were no longer redeemable. And as it is so often: One has probably placed these vouchers in the document folder, returns the refrigerator free of charge and forgets that this voucher has an equivalent value. Therefore, it is obvious that this disposal company continues to have a larger amount of euro. This is what the Republic of Austria has remembered and has done something in principle right in the budget accompanying law: It has legally decided that this company should transfer the funds of consumers to the Republic. This is, of course, only the second best solution. The best solution would be to return this amount to consumers. But if that is not possible, it is probably better for the Republic to take over these funds and invest them wisely than they are with a private company. But this rule obviously does not hold because the company begins to defend itself and says that it is a expropriation. So, if someone is expropriated, not the company, but the consumers, you have to say that, but well. The company says it's a expropriation. And then you start working almost in a kneefall on a new solution, and it now looks different. Suddenly, only €24 million will be transferred – this is obviously not the total amount because one has entered into a compromise with this private company. I asked four specific questions in the Committee. First: How much money is in this private fund? – This is a relatively simple question, and you should know that. Secondly, How is the amount of €24 million to be transferred? – One should be able to explain this as an applicant. Thirdly, Why is not the entire capital transferred to the League by means of a contract for the benefit of third parties? – A legitimate question. Fourth: What happens to the rest of the company? They looked at me faithfully and couldn't answer a single question. The only thing was that you said at least, well, we're going to postpone it and look at it. That can happen once. It is not a model example of making an application that cannot be explained, but it is. On 22.6. the same request was again in the committee, I asked the same four questions – no answer again. And I think that's not reasonable. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. May. Stefan.]] We don't know how much money is in the company. We transfer a certain amount, probably another one stays there, we don't know why, we don't know what to do with the money. I do not think that is acceptable to consumers and taxpayers. But, Mrs Minister, you have the opportunity to answer these four questions today – I will tell you again now and try to send them along and answer them precisely –: First: How much money is currently in the private foundation? Secondly, How do you get the amount of €24 million that is now transferred to the Republic? Thirdly, Why is – this is an assumption – not the entire capital transferred, in the context of a contract for the benefit of third parties, so that this is not a challenge as a quasi expropriation? Fourth: What happens in this company with the remaining capital, especially if no other consumers still have vouchers? – And I guess so, because 2005 is now six years ago, and I don’t think that especially many consumers will report to this company and redeem their voucher. This is a crucial question, because I do not understand why one should give a company – for whatever reason – a certain multidigit million euro amount. If you can answer these questions precisely and if that is the case, I am willing to reconsider our rejection. However, as long as applicants cannot declare an application for a law and the suspicion is that there may have been a lazy compromise in the back with a private company that is now allowed to keep consumer funds, there is certainly not our consent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e23195	Next speaker: Mrs Bayr. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e23217	Ladies and gentlemen! I'll try to answer some of the questions. I was interested in that too, and I also researched. But I still start with the basic before I get to the numbers. The present law provides the framework for the processing of the refrigerator vignettes in a user-friendly manner as it has been before. And here it is important to stress that consumers who have pickerl or vouchers – i.e. both – still have at home, just by writing the number of the pickerl or voucher in the application form, can claim the nominal value back, not by 2020, but by 2035. For, in fact, there was 13th of a year. On 1 August 2005, the UFH announced that it would withdraw from the contracts with consumers. And according to civil law, it is possible to deal with contracts for 30 years – that is, by 2035 and not by 2020. It's important to me to say that. By 2020 – and this is now also the subject of the law that lies here – the UFH will settle the repayment on behalf of the federal government, and after that the Ministry of Finance is necessarily responsible for the fact that the rest of the money comes to the people who are still coming. Of course, after 2020, if it makes sense to be financially good or whatever, the Ministry of Finance can also instruct someone else to continue to deal with it, for example, the VKI or anyone else. What I would like to say in principle, and what is very important from my point of view, is that we try to find ways, both before 2020 and after 2020, to find ways to inform consumers of their right – for example, about media, consumer protection facilities – and we really tell them that if you go somewhere in an angle, in a pile or where Also such a voucher, a vignette or a pickerl can find that. Among other things, the fact that the law has come about is also a merit of the Chamber of Workers, which has been declared since 2005, that is, since the UFH that it withdraws from these Treaties, has really tried to ensure that there is an orderly termination of this system of cooling cabinets. Otherwise, it would have been possible for these funds to remain secret, quiet and quiet until 2035. No one would have noticed that it might not have touched anyone, and then this money would simply have been transferred to the UFH's regular property. This is quite, certainly not in the interest of just one person here, because by the way we regulate it now, at least 24 million can be added to the Federal budget – in the sense of climate protection, in the sense of environmental protection. Now to the numbers: All those who deal with it in some way tell me that there is some uncertainty in the calculation or in the assessment of how many people will report by 2020 and will really ask back their money – from the vignette, from the pickerl or from the voucher. But everyone appreciates that it will be between € 1 million and € 2 million. ==References====External links== ==References== Of these 30 million, 2 million are being deducted for being repaid for Pickerl. There is also a necessary tax provision of another 2 million koests, which will be easy to afford, due to the book profits that the UFH has. In addition, the UFH also has an additional obligation of 1.6 million towards the parent company. This is why, at that time, cooling machines of the efficiency class A were subsidized, so they were made cheaper – of which there are still demands. And 200 000 € are estimated to be easy to handle. These are the costs of someone who receives and also processes these applications. So that's what explains this sum. But it is also very important to me to note that, if there is still money left in the year 2020, there is still money in the UFH's assets – and in this we are all, I believe, absolutely agreed – this money has to flow to the federal government just as now that it cannot be that any successor company may then be able to clog this money. And this money, which then still flows to the Federation, must be as dedicated as the present 24 million we are leading to the budget. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e23272	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Stadler. The total remaining speaking time of the Group is 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e23293	Oh, the ÖVP's going out again! This reminds me of a debate, ladies and gentlemen: When the Franz Fuchs was caught and I told the Socialists who it was after we had been made bomb attacks ourselves for years, the left part of this house went out. Meanwhile, the ÖVP goes out. But I'm right: Whoever wants to go out, let's go. [[Between call of the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] Yes, whoever wants to go out, let's go. It's not really important to me that the blacks sit in there. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I put the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Hammer, the possibility of repayment has existed for ten years, but what you have forgotten is that this repayment is possible from 1st century onwards. 1. 2014 costs money. You have to imagine this: If someone wants to return €7.27 for a refrigerator in a private household, the gastronomy can ask back €50, then he probably has to pay more to get the money back than what he should get back. Well, that's a great arrangement! You forgot to mention that. The fact is – and this makes this case clear – and now I am speaking again towards social democracy – that this is an example of how outsourcing of state-of-the-art activities should not take place. I didn't look into who did that back then. Whoever did that at the time, I do not blame him, but the fact is that there is a control deficit, if one is not even able to determine from the Federal Government how much money there is, but we must publicly speculate on whether it is € 31 million or € 32 million. This is an obvious control deficit. It is a recovery deficit, because if I forgive a promotion for some project in Austria today, then the federal government always reserves the possibility of recovery. Not in this case. This has been a completely unhappy construction, so that we have to live with it – and I don't really think it is acceptable – that there are now officials sitting in a foundation until 2020. This has not yet been explained, Mr Steinhauser, how to come to 2020. I have the suspicion that the pensions will be due. That is, they have no more activity in a foundation where they have nothing to do, because people won't spend money getting back a few nets that were taken away many years ago. That means they have a super quiet bullet at government costs there and will then be... – At least € 7 million! [[Call at BZÖ:For 7 million €!]] There are probably more, because the 32 million € have not been demented. If this had been too high, it would have been demented. [[Abg. Street:... Interests!]] I think that might even be more. So it's at least €7 million that stay there. They push a quiet ball there for the next ten years, and it is assumed that in 2020 this quiet ball will immediately grow into the retirement age and then you will live on at the taxpayer's expense. This is a case of completely unhappiness, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] So you can see that not every outsourcing per se is a good outlay. This also shows, ladies and gentlemen, that this form of dealing with taxpayers' money is also not intended to give rise to confidence in taxpayers. If these are the results of an environmental policy, then people will rightly be angry if they are to lose money – that is not much at first, but in total it is a lot – and in the end a few functional, probably also party-political proximity, can push a quiet ball and thus also say goodbye to the pension. It is unacceptable, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e23376	Mrs. Federal Minister Dr. Karl came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e23398	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Today's amendment ensures, on the one hand, a legally secure transfer of more than €24 million in benefits from UFH's assets into federal assets. At the same time, the future settlement and verification of the remaining repayment claims from the so-called refrigerator pickers for consumers is also regulated. The Republic saves itself for years of legal disputes and immediately receives the funds used for the purpose referred to in the proposal for an initiative. This means that numerous jobs in the environmental sector can also be secured. On the questions raised by Mr Steinhauser, I can say the following: You asked how much money is in the private foundation. That's about €30 million, and the immediate payout also causes a disagio. You have further asked how to get the €24 million. – There were several rounds of negotiations with the UFH, and these rounds of negotiations also took place with the support of the BDO Austria. It is important to mention, in this context, that the acquisition of the resolution by the UFH must of course also be taken into account on a monetary basis. They also asked why the whole capital is not transferred and what happens to the untransfered capital. It's true that the UFH won't be smashed, there's still that. This solution has been found to prevent the immediate destruction and thus also the loss of jobs. [[Abg. May. Steinhauser: How many jobs are these?]] A short while ago, what the UFH, which will continue to do, will do. For the customers, the UFH largely assumes all the obligations arising from the electrical equipment and battery regulations, as well as the collection and recycling of electrical appliances and industrial batteries. So the UFH continues to engage in activities and thus also secures jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e23432	Mr Stadler, have You're gonna have another word? [[Calls and calls between representatives of BZÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Some ÖVP members leave the hall.]] [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the BZÖ.]] Mr Magnificent came to speak. Stadler. 4 minutes remaining speaking time of the Group is left. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e23475	I just wanted to test how many blacks are going to go out now, how many blacks are able to stand there. You just have to count through, and how many get back in. [[Interlocutory calls from Deputies Ing. Westenthaler and Strache.]] If you don't have any more arguments, then of course you have to escape from the plenary session, that's perfectly clear, ladies and gentlemen. Perhaps the cameras can go to the ladies and gentlemen of the Austrian People's Party to show who really prefers to leave Parliament because a discussion with the Ewald Stadler...
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e23507	Mr Stadler, I would like to remind you that you wanted to say something about the matter. [[In the case of BZÖ, please take a look at the box that leaves the speaker's desk. May. Stadler.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: This is a government party – that only for the protocol!]] The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Stadler is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e23602	No one is reported in the word anymore. I therefore conclude the debate. [[Unrest in the hall.]] Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. I should like to ask the honourable Members to be aware of the vote, otherwise another mistake will happen. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 1281 of the supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who also wish to give their approval at third reading to a sign in this regard. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Bucher, ladies and gentlemen, concerning the enigma of further'refrigerators'. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. The agenda is exhausted. [[21:09:10]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2011-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00113_d8e23675	I am still announcing that self-employed requests 1625/A(E) to 1631/A(E) were tabled at today's meeting. Question No 8980/J to 9033/J has also been received. The next meeting of the National Council is scheduled for Friday, 8. July 2011, 11 a.m. The agenda can be found in the written communication distributed in the hall. Before I close this session, I would like to recall the following and ask for attention: Following this meeting, the main committee shall meet in local VI. On the occasion of the tomorrow meeting of the EU's main committee in the National Council Hall, today, after the end of the meeting, the drawers of Members' seats will be blocked and documents and papers which are not in the drawers will be removed. Accordingly, please take along all personal documents. The sitting is closed.
