ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, ladies and gentlemen. Officers of authority. The session is open. [[It was 9 hours and 1 minute.]] As you know, the first item on today's agenda is the debate and vote of the draft decree by Mr President of the Republic on the request for authorisation to renew the statement of emergency state. The draft decree reads as follows: ‘The evolution of the COVID-19 pandemic and the taking of necessary sanitary measures to deal with it show that restrictions on contact between people reduce the risk of infection and spread of the virus. Some of these measures, due to their seriousness and potential injury to rights, freedoms and guarantees, constitutionally require the declaration of the state of emergency. The experts indicate that the effect of the measures taken on the evolution of the pandemic is felt, in the number of infected people, about two to six weeks after being taken and, in the number of deaths, about one month later. at this time, the indication of possible next production of effects results from the fact that the risk index of effective transmission of the disease (RT) is indicating a slight slowing trend, as well as a small slowdown in the incidence growth rate. However, this level of incidence, with the very disturbing numbers of new infections and deaths, continues to be very high and putting enormous pressure on the National Health Service (SNS) and the health system in general, in particular in the capacity to accommodate in intensive care units (ICUs), so in addition to the generic and fundamental measures of personal hygiene, adequate use of masks and social distance, it is essential to renew the state of emergency, so that certain restrictive measures may also be renewed, but more adapted to the experience of reality and more differentiated depending on the situation and heterogeneity in each municipality, hoping that they will soon produce positive effects. For this differentiation, the criteria will certainly be useful by allowing the grouping of risk levels, as defined by the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control ( ECDC ). Moreover, the hope window that is opened by new vaccines can only begin to come true, if everything runs as planned, from January 2021 and the vaccination of all concerned will necessarily take several months. in this regard, the President of the Republic decrees in accordance with Articles 19. o, 134. o, point (d ) and 138. the Constitution and Law No. 44 / 86 of 30 September, as amended by Organic Law No. 1 / 2011 of 30 November, and the Organic Law No. 1 / 2012 of 11 May, on proposal and hearing the Government and obtained the necessary authorization of the Assembly of the Republic, by Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic No. 87 -A / 2020 of 20 November(... ). Do not keep on seeking. ” Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, since the Government is not yet present, I give the floor to Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha to give an opinion. Please, Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, very good day to all and to all. I hereby announce that you have entered into the Bureau Opinion No 18 of the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members on the resumption of the term of office of Mr José Gomes Mendes ( PS ), the electoral circle of Braga, leaving office Mr Pompeu Martins, with effect from 7 November, including, and concerning the suspension and replacement of Mr Ricardo Pinheiro ( PS ), electoral circle of Portalegre, being replaced by Martina Pires Marcelino of Jesus, also with effect from 7 November, including.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u3	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us vote on this opinion. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha, you have the floor to account for the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u4	Mr President, they have also entered the Bureau and have been admitted the following diplomas: Bill No 63 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) ; and Resolution Projects Nos 752 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 753 / XIV / 2. a ( CH ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 754 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Joacine Katar Moreira ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 755 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ), which drops to 9. the Commission, 756 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ), which drops to 9. the Commission, 757 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 758 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 759 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), which drops to 8. the Commission, 760 / XIV / 2. a ( CH ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 761 / XIV / 2. a ( PAR) and 762 / XIV / 2. a ( CH ), which falls to 11. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u5	I would like to congratulate the Prime Minister and the Members. Members of the Government, who have arrived in the meantime. As you know, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, they can and should register now for the purpose of voting. Let us then start the debate on the request for authorisation for the renewal of the state of emergency declaration. For an intervention, Mrs Constance Urbano de Sousa spoke by the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u6	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Two weeks after the Assembly of the Republic authorized for the second time the declaration of the state of emergency, unfortunately the reasons that led to its declaration were maintained. The pandemic situation in the world, Europe and the country is serious, with a very significant increase in new cases, which are exerting enormous pressure on health systems. Despite the many measures taken, such as strengthening the response capacity of the SNS, testing capacity or recruitment of more health professionals, the truth is that this pandemic requires that, in addition, everyone lends their contribution to preventing the spread of this terrible virus—a virus about which we know more than yesterday, but much less than we will know tomorrow. So the uncertainties are many. But one thing is certain: only if we adopt security measures and restrict our contacts to the strictly necessary is that it will be possible to break the spiral of exponential propagation in which we find ourselves. We all realize the context in which 15 days ago the declaration of the state of emergency was authorized, a context of anticipation of the second wave of the epidemic, which struck Europe as a whole with a brutal force, while making more audible the legitimate doubts as to whether the existing legal framework would allow the Government to adopt the restrictive measures required to control the spread of the pandemic. There are those who demand the creation of a more appropriate special regime, but in battle time no weapons are cleaned up and now is the time to close ranks in the battle without any hardship to the spread of the COVID-19. [[P.S.'s applause.]] that it is essential to renew the state of emergency, which, with the intervention of this Parliament, gives the Government the legal certainty it needs to adopt measures that help to prevent the spread of the virus, save lives and, at the same time, not kill our economy, as most European countries are forced to do. 15 days ago, this Parliament authorised the state of emergency, which allowed measures of variable geometry according to different levels of risk, but also more limited restrictions on the freedoms and rights of citizens in relation to those that existed in the first state of emergency. With this renewal, it is not very different, although the worsening of the situation may justify more restrictive measures, such as compulsive confinements or the closure of certain establishments. But they are, above all, measures aimed at reducing the risk of infection and preventing infections and thereby saving human lives. We are not suspending democracy or the essential core of fundamental rights, but balancing freedom and security, freedom and the well-being of all. I am not going to discuss the measures that this renewal allows the Government to adopt. It is he who, at every moment, has to make the decisions that are imposed, in a very difficult context that must unite us and that dispenses populist and useless exercises of bench trainer. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I am fully confident that the Government will be able to use these enlarged powers with weight and proportionality. And Parliament here will be, as it has always been, to carry out its democratic electoral mission, as it is here today and here will always be to participate actively and democratically in this collective effort to fight the pandemic, no matter how hard the measures seem to us and how legitimate the doubts we have in the face of the uncertainty in which we all live. This is because we can never escape our responsibility to make decisions to protect the life, health and well-being of the community we serve. It is in this framework of limited, weighted, gradual, differentiated and proportional use of the powers permitted by the state of emergency to the Government that we today vote in favour of its renewal. We will do so with the confidence that the need for this state of emergency will end on the day that we will win, together, this is the battle of our lives. We will do so with the certainty that it will no longer be necessary in the day when we will recover the normality of what was our life. We never have any illusions: this goal, which we all hope to achieve soon, does not depend only on science, government and institutions, on which we must continue to place all our trust, it also depends on each and every one of us. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u7	I am aware that we have a quorum to proceed to the vote, so I would ask that the exit of some Members of the Chamber be speeded up quickly, since they are in excessive numbers, and even because we need to test today, if possible, the conditions in which we are going to become operational from next Monday. For an intervention by the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Adam Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u8	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Members: The Social Democratic Party will vote in favour of the draft decree of the President of the Republic, which renews for 15 days the state of emergency that will allow the Government to present the necessary measures to combat the pandemic. Once again, as we have done since March, the PSD cooperates with the President of the Republic and with the Government to save lives and guarantee the future of the Portuguese. We do our part, within our capabilities and competences. We are therefore in a position to demand that the government do what must be done in these exceptional times. So we have two requirements to make today. The first is that the government is clear, coherent and politically honest. In recent days, the Prime Minister has assumed that the communication of the measures by the Government is defective. We agree: it is defective and it is also incomprehensible. How will the Portuguese, who are forced to stay at home, limited in their freedom of movement, prevented in their social and family life, understand that the government does not prohibit social gatherings of hundreds of people? For some, there are prohibitions; for others, there are exceptions! [[PSD applause.]] Millions of Portuguese are blocked at home and a few hundred communist militants are in joyful convivio congressista. How is this discrimination to be understood? It is true that the government, in the days ahead, owes its political survival to the Communist Party — that we know! — but we, all of us, are really interested in the survival of Portuguese, our businesses, employment and health services. [[PSD applause.]] The common sense and, if that no longer exists, the dramaticism of infections and deaths, increasingly in recent days, should make the leaders of the CFP think that no one understands your obstinacy, your prepotence and your arrogance. And in the government, is there anyone who understands this complicit silence? We only hope that the government will not be trying some saloia skill, deceiving everything and everyone, so that the CFP will not be left without its precious congress. It would be the grave of ridicule! And the ridiculous, like the pandemic, kills! [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests by PCP MP Jerome de Sousa.]] The second requirement we make is that the government stop its ideological blindness. A pandemic, Mrs. Government members, it's not an ideology! The National Health Service, to which the first and main responses to the prevention and treatment of the pandemic, and well, has been disabled since the first hour. The results are funstous and translate into thousands of deaths above what is normal and which the government refuses to explain. Fortunately, for many years, Portuguese society has been able to organize, mobilize and invest and, today, Portugal has an admirable network of hospitals belonging to solidarity institutions, businesses and cooperatives. They are excellently attached structures, some never used, such as the case of a high quality hospital structure, which I know, in Miranda do Corvo. They have beds, equipment and, above all, health professionals available to support. These are advantages — advantages! — which the Portuguese can count on and which cannot be wasted in the difficult times that we go through, but the government, by incredible ideological blindness, has failed these resources. So far! So far! ... Until the arrival of this second wave and when he realized, as an important head of the National Health Service said, that «the worst is yet to come». Now, the government, resigned, is running behind lost time. It's the government improvising, and bad! Here, in all its splendor, is the extent to which the ideological blindness, the uncoordinated action and the unwise and untimely decision of the government have taken us. What is the government waiting to talk about, paying a fair price, already seen, to mobilise all resources — public, private and cooperative — to cure the sick people COVID and not COVID? Mr. Prime Minister, it is difficult, it is really very difficult, not to say impossible, the government communicates well with the Portuguese in such circumstances. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u9	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We are debating the renewal of the state of emergency, which, for the second time, is placed in the Assembly of the Republic and, as has already been said by Mr President of the Republic and Mr Prime Minister, will probably be the second time. We know that, in order to ensure legality and the Constitution, it is in the Assembly of the Republic that rights limitations are discussed and the suspension or limitations of freedoms are suspended, so I believe that this is the right way in this process. from the Left Block, we do not ignore the dangers of a virus that is still unknown to us, taking into account many of its consequences. And when we look at the pandemic numbers and see how it affects our life and our health services, we know it's an emergency that we can't help but answer. But discussing limitations on rights and freedoms to respond to the pandemic should not make us forget the functioning of the economy. And if we are discussing here today a request from the President of the Republic which will empower the Government to act in defence of public health, this request must also be accompanied by measures to ensure that the economic consequences of the state of emergency, the social consequences of this limitation of rights and freedoms are also cautious in government action. Unfortunately, we have seen more announcements than realisations and delays than speeding up in the response to people and the economy. I believe that this is an urgent matter. These delays and limitations in the responses are suppressed in the renewal of the state of emergency, which we are now discussing. Let us hope that the government will meet that challenge. If people are asked a lot, if many sectors of the economy are asked to do so — I believe that none of us are aware of this — many other sectors are slow to demand that they meet the needs of such an important time for the country. Let us see how the private sector of health has been treated: in the first wave, the Government had the opportunity to mobilize this sector to respond to the pandemic, but it did not want to do so; in this second wave, the Government had, in the mandate of the Assembly of the Republic, in response to Mr President of the Republic's request, the possibility of ensuring that there is planning for the whole sector of health, both public and private, to respond to the pandemic. We cannot then lose ourselves in the race that we are watching between the government and the private to respond to the urgency of the country. We do not ignore that, at a time when there are so many sacrifices for so many sectors of the economy, there are profitable businesses, such as private testing, with profit rates — and they are known! — far beyond what would be morally acceptable. About that, what do we see? Very little to be done! The race is accepted, but the decision is missing to force those sectors of the economy, which are fundamental to respond to the pandemic, not to fail the country at this essential moment. I believe that this is the courage we hope the government will have in this renewal of the state of emergency. There is therefore a novelty in the text that the President of the Republic has given to the Assembly of the Republic : the prohibition of dismissal in the National Health Service. In fact, this request is curious, because the Left Block has long said that due to lack of conditions, lack of motivation, lack of planning and appreciation of careers, SNS has been losing professionals. Finally, now, some who denied this reality began to understand it. But we hope it is not only because of the prohibition of redundancies that is intended to defend employment in the National Health Service. We have always said that valuing careers, motivating people and ensuring that the future perspective of the National Health Service for its professionals is positive is the best way to ensure health services for all and for all. We hope that this is the priority rather than the authoritarian way of saying: « Stay, whatever it costs ». from the state and from the government it is expected, from this term that will come out of the Assembly of the Republic, that they value those who work in the National Health Service. However, what we have seen are precarious contracts, lack of concern about careers, devaluation of their professionals. Consider the example of the hospital in Braga, which will lose more than 80 nurses, because their contracts are precarious, four months. See the example of the Western Lisbon hospital, which will lose operational assistants, because— stop! — its contracts shall be four months. This is not how the professionals of the National Health Service are valued! This is not how we guarantee that we are at the height of this essential moment of public health! That is not how the Government can and must respond to this demand! I shall conclude by saying that the Left Block will enable, by abstaining, the renewal of the state of emergency, hoping that it will serve the Government to be up to the time we go through and not to complain to the Assembly of the Republic of the tools it has at its disposal. It is not a blank mandate and its application will clearly be monitored by us. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u11	Mr João Oliveira, by the Parliamentary Group of the CFP, spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u12	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is necessary to alleviate the pressure that is placed on the SNS, avoid its rupture and create conditions for the rest of the health care to be provided. The restrictive measures that have been imposed, the cover of the state of emergency, do not allow the necessary halt of the epidemic and are simultaneously throwing the country into an unsustainable economic and social situation. We said 15 days ago that the statement of the state of emergency should be rejected, but with the votes in favour of the PS, the PSD and the CDS and the withdrawals of BE, the PAN and the Arrival, the state of emergency was decreed. We said 15 days ago that there were four essential reasons for that rejection. First of all, by disregarding the first and main issue which is put to the country, which is that of defining the conditions of health security so that national life continues with the normality possible in the circumstances we live in. Secondly, by emphasising the deresponsibility of public authorities in favour of individual accountability and the limitation of rights, freedoms and guarantees. Third, by riding a wave of fear and panic that has been promoted on the mass scale, contributing to the multiplication of limitations to the exercise of individual or collective rights from the wrong idea that is the solution to the problems we face. Fourthly, because in matters as relevant as access to health care, the statement of the state of emergency did not only defend constitutional rights in a state of exception, as it constituted a road map to do the private business with public money on the pretext of the epidemic. Fifteen days later, we are discussing the renewal of the state of emergency and the reasons for its refusal by the CFP remain, but the situation in which we do not discuss this. The situation in which the country is, 15 days after the declaration of the state of emergency, makes it increasingly evident that the recipe is wrong. The negative development of the economic and social situation in this period confirms that restrictive measures are pushing millions of Portuguese to unemployment, poverty, indebtedness, ruin, uncertainty and insecurity about the future. With many difficulties, sacrifices and losses, the country endured, in March and April, the fight against the measures that were then taken. Now, the country can't stand it because it can't. The country on which the measures of this state of emergency are being abolished is a country with more than 100,000 unemployed than in 2019 ; it is a country that has endured almost two months of forced paralysis, which has gone through a summer of frustrated expectations and which is today whipped by the threat of bankruptcy of thousands of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, with entire economic sectors near the collapse ; it is a country where uncertainty as to what is decided and the lack of justification for decisions does not allow people to clearly identify the reasons for being the behaviors to be adopted. Why should a restaurant have its time of limited operation if, clearly, the health safety rules that are defined can be met in that space?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u13	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u14	Why should the fairs and lift markets, by definition, open sky, begin by being prohibited if the Government does not take care to define maximum rental rules, entry and exit circuits and movement of persons, distancement or hygiene, so that they can be carried out in health security? If the main cause of concern at this time are the contagions in family context and cohabitation, why on Saturday afternoon all the spreads of a city have to be closed, their gardens and empty parks, beaches or riparian areas without living? Why? What rationality is this of measures that seek to guarantee health by inciting fear and insecurity to people? The recipe applied in Portugal, even if at a different dose, is the same recipe applied a little across Europe. It is based on the hope that a vaccine will emerge before we have to adapt our living conditions to the circumstances imposed by protection against the virus. In the long run, this recipe has enormous risks. If we do not confirm the possibility of resorting to vaccination, then we will have to make the adaptation of our collective life, paying dearly the cost of this delay. In the immediate future, the negative consequences of the revenue are more than evident: in its failure at the health level and in its disastrous results at the economic and social level, but also at the political level, by the food that gives to antidemocratic projects and views based on the idea that all rights can and should be sacrificed on behalf of the fight against the epidemic, including rights, freedoms and guarantees, labour, social, economic and even even political rights, as it has now confirmed itself with the intervention we have heard from the PSD, by the voice of Mr Adam Silva. Mr Adam Silva, I can give you a guarantee: the Congress of the CFP will be held under all conditions of health security,... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] ... giving the example of what we defend in relation to all areas of activity in the country, because that's how they have to work. [[PCP applause.]] We do not know whether the speech that you did even correspond to the thought of the PSD or whether it was more an order from the PSD that the PSD has fulfilled! [[PCP applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] But I would like to tell you, Mr President, that, as during the Troika Government, the PSD and the CDS, it was the Constitution that defended the Portuguese people from the attack on rights, from the attack on wages, from the attack on living conditions, it is also now the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic which defends the political, economic, social and cultural rights that you once again wish to question. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Rejecting the renewal of the state of emergency, we insist that the people and the country need measures to protect health and pedagogy protection, but also, and above all, support measures so that national life can be developed in conditions of health security instead of being banned or suspended. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u15	Mr Telmo Correia, from the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, has the floor for one speech. [[PSD and CH Protests and PCP Counter-Protests.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us make a little silence to allow Mr Telmo Correia to speak. [[PSD and CH Protests and PCP Counter-Protests.]] You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u16	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are discussing today the fourth decree of the state of emergency and, when discussing it, we must clarify a question. We are not discussing a set of government measures or how they will be calibrated, we are only discussing the basic legal framework that will allow them to be adopted. Today, I wouldn't even need to repeat what I said here 15 days ago. If the government in the first wave has been slightly delayed in the answer, this second wave has failed in turn. He was unable to predict, adopted avous measures—often contradictory—and lost at least six months to prepare the country for this reality.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u17	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u18	He refused, due to ideological obsession, to use all the existing capacity, by contracting with the social and private sectors. The government, who now says that everything will be fine when the vaccine arrives for COVID, is the same government that made announcements and promises but that it was not able to ensure that everything was going well this year with the usual influenza vaccine.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u19	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u20	15 days ago, we said that the measures had to be balanced and perceptible, and that was all that didn't happen. What we have seen were confusing, imperceptible or unjustifiable measures, leading to concentrations — hours and people — avoidable and at the same time to unnecessary economic damage.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u21	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u22	15 days ago, we said clearly that, bringing these more difficult measures to the economy, there was a need for significant strengthening of support. The government has responded to millions of losses with coughs. Today, we are again discussing a presidential decree, without knowing at least what measures will be taken tomorrow.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u23	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u24	Even the meeting of Infarmed (National Medicines and Health Products Authority), which we always ask for, occurred only on the eve. Today, we make a decision without the government having the seriousness of sharing with Parliament what it will do. It should be on the contrary: we should know the framework of measures before we know what the state of emergency will be covering. But this is consistent with a Prime Minister who, 15 days ago, did not even deserve to come to Parliament to discuss this matter. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u25	Then it went wrong. We know that we now want to adopt a three-level differentiation system, an idea of traffic lights. Interestingly, this is precisely what we proposed to the Government and to Mr Prime Minister over 15 days ago, but Mr Prime Minister has heard of the market.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u26	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u27	If he had listened to us, he would have gained time and effectiveness. But the government did not want to, and did so with the welcome of the President of the Republic, as he has always done, and with the unconditional support of the major opposition party. In the CDS we are aware of the gravity of the situation and we know that we are not only close to a break in intensive medicine, as we have reached a point where we have daily numbers surrounding 7000 contagios. We do not, therefore, put ourselves on ideological ornaments, when we know that only with everyone's responsibility will we be able to save thousands of lives. We reject populist opportunism and abhor the unscrupulous use of other people's misfortune. If revolt and indignation can be just, use is a shame! But well the well-thoughts can theorize about the negationism of populists in this outside world, from Trump to Bolsonaro, and make their manifestations in full pandemic, because in Portugal negationism is on the left and the PCP congress is a good example. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u28	Look, another one!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u29	Mr President, I have seen the similarities in your speech today. If there were any questions, after the Front Party! or 1. that of May, it would suffice to see the insistence, to realize that the law is not the same for all.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u30	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u31	But now it will be with all the rules, as is evident; for the other Portuguese it is not! Open... [[PCP protests.]] Some have to stay indoors or close their establishments— never more than five, when very half a dozen people—and, even without an emergency, they could not go to the cemetery to visit their dead. Others may meet at hundreds on the most critical weekend of the pandemic.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u32	It's a shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u33	Why? Because they are PCP and PS, increasingly, needs it for everything, including to approve the State Budget. [[CDS-PP applause.]] All that was required was, on the contrary, a government capable of taking fair, perceptible, coherent and equal measures for all. And that is how the government, regardless of what it decides tomorrow, will lose its foot and credibility. Our position is determined by a serious concern about what is happening to the Portuguese, and there is no margin for further mistakes. On the other hand, we repeat: more restrictive measures involve more substantial support for the economy. We stress that the Government could — and should — have shared, yesterday and not tomorrow, its options and the contours of these measures before the vote we are going to make here. It is time for the government to start acting up to what is required of the Portuguese. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u34	It is the turn of the PAN Parliamentary Group. Mrs Inês de Sousa Real spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u35	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The declaration of the state of emergency has an absolutely exceptional character and its successive renewals should not in any way weaken our democracy or result in the loss of confidence of citizens and citizens in the capacity of institutions or bodies of sovereignty. However, the situation we are living in is clearly worrisome. Only on yesterday, Portugal recorded more than 7000 cases, a number that goes beyond the peak of the crisis period that occurred at the beginning of the year, so it is true that the lifting of the state of emergency at this time would not care for the greater good that each one of us has, that is health or even life. But the state of emergency declaration needs to be accompanied by substantive measures which, from the outset, guarantee the capacity of society to respond and prepare for episodes of health crisis, which has not happened so far. The country needs not only that the use of measures based on this instrument meets the criteria of proportionality or necessity, with a clear justification or a guarantee of their enforceability or effectiveness, but also that the anticipation of a regulatory process that is able to give a more adequate response to this health crisis and, in parallel, to walk towards constitutional normality, which has not happened so far. Since summer, there has been no anticipation of the difficulties that have still come with defining, along with contradictory messages, and even incomprehensible measures, which in no way contributed to the promotion of individual behaviors of greater responsibility. It is therefore urgent to adapt not only discourse and policies, but above all legal order, to clearly foresee future situations of health crises, such as, for example, the operation of telework, the diversion of working hours, distance teaching or even restrictions on the movement or operation of different activities, without neglecting public responses, such as for example in transport, with the guarantee of social distance, and all having access to the same means. The almost continuous use of the state of emergency figure as a solution for the restriction of rights, freedoms and guarantees is likely to generate a legal uncertainty that is not consistent with a democratic state and law as ours is. On the decree we discussed here, however, we note as a positive safeguard of support for older persons or third parties, particularly through their family members or loved ones, because it was indeed an aspect for which the NAP was repeatedly alerting. And it must be ensured that we are prepared for the effects that confinement can still have, since the way we relate to ourselves — we have no illusions — has been profoundly altered and today is promoting a greater feeling of loneliness, isolation and inability of social responses, which has consequences for emotional, mental and social well-being. On the other hand, we are concerned about the fact that this decree opens the door to compulsive confinement or confinement against will, which is one of the most serious forms of restriction of rights, freedoms and guarantees. It is also worrying that the continuing absence of responses to social problems, such as the scourge of domestic violence or the fight against poverty, which already existed, well we know, before this crisis, but whose repercussions should not jeopardise the work that has been done so far and that the economic crisis will certainly worsen. We need clear measures, we need consistent and proactive measures in raising awareness and education of all so that behavior changes consciously and voluntarily and not by force or coercion. And even less we need to be surprised by measures such as compulsory confinement. It is essential that we be able to combine, in its different aspects, freedom with security, whether health, economic or environmental. in this sense, when the government assigns responsibility to citizens and citizens, it can not fail to assume its own responsibilities — to do more, for example, in support of small and medium-sized enterprises, to do more for independent workers, to do more in the field of health and, above all, never to provoke or reverse by inefficient ways and measures. This decree will only solve the problems if we leave it with different positions, different policies, to start by promoting the absolutely fundamental role that this Parliament must have in a legislative perspective and not merely controlling. But in this very Hemicycle, where we have already heard commitments of a sense of state and of openness to dialogue in favour of a greater good for the country, it is also where, with the same vehemence, we see positions arise that call for an incomprehensible political crisis, neglecting the priority that we must take to contribute to the fight against the crises we live. It is up to all of us, elected and elected, but in particular to the government, to meet the times that are coming. Combating COVID-19 is to strengthen the National Health Service, it is to create social, economic and labour responses appropriate to the context we live in, it is to promote a more sustainable and fair, social and environmental economic recovery. We clearly need to start taking a path that leads us to normality, but with lessons learned and prioritising the safeguarding of all of us. in this sense, the NAP will obviously not hinder the statement of the state of emergency, with its abstention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u36	Mr José Luís Ferreira of the ENP spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u37	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It may still be early to understand the possible contributions of the current state of emergency, but, after all these months, we continue without identifying any substantial contribution of the state of emergency last spring, to prevent the spread of the virus. We know that in view of the seriousness of the situation, it is imperative to continue and strengthen the containment measures. But let us not confuse what cannot be confused, because one thing is containment measures and another, quite different, is the state of emergency. It is recalled that during the spring, the most important measures in this fight were taken outside and outside the state of emergency, namely the closure of schools, the voluntary confinement of the Portuguese. In this regard, in fact, a mobility study produced before the declaration of the current state of emergency indicates very clearly that the Portuguese were once again voluntarily confined to their homes at levels recorded in May and without the need for any state of emergency. Moreover, in our view, it is not the state of emergency that allows the government to give the answers that are required. The Greens therefore vote against their renewal. In fact, to provide the SNS with more means, more health professionals and more equipment, or to strengthen the response capacity of health centres and hospitals, the government does not need the state of emergency for anything. And if the overload is affecting unequally in the different hospitals in the country, there is also no need for the state of emergency to strengthen the inter-hospital transport of critical patients or to strengthen network work among hospitals. The same applies to strengthening the protection of safety conditions at work: the government can and should do so without an emergency. In order for the Government to create the conditions for people to effectively comply with rules, public transport or schools, no state of exception is necessary. In public transport, especially in peak hours, people, even if they wish, cannot objectively comply with the rules of distance. Now, demanding people the impossible is something that does not make the state of emergency acceptable and therefore not here the state of emergency helps. To demand, for example, that in ships, at certain times, people comply with the rules of distance is only possible if a significant part of the people decide to swim. But that doesn't make the state of emergency acceptable. Finally, in order for the Government to properly explain to people the measures it is taking, it does not need the state of emergency either. We had a weekend, and we have another one ahead of us, where the government decided to literally throw everyone away for shopping, during the morning period. Some in the morning and some in the afternoon? No, it's all going in the morning. Come together, gather together, organize themselves, but everything goes in the morning. This measure may even be very important to reduce the risk of contagion, but as far as imagination is concerned, people do not understand how. So if it is absolutely decisive that everyone takes the rules seriously, it is necessary to explain the reasons behind them. And if the government is waiting for the state of emergency to explain, it can well expect to sit, because with this measure, the only thing the Portuguese learned was that the closure of the trade at 13 o'clock, in addition to having brought everyone together in the shopping during the morning, represented only one more big blow, especially in the restoration sector, which was trying to get up and ended up taking another big fan that put him back on the floor. A final note on the decree that we are now discussing and which aims to give the public authorities the right to use the private sector's health care provision resources by fair compensation: The Greens consider it absolutely scandalous and immoral that the pandemic can serve to fatten the profits of private groups with health interests. Therefore, the challenge remains: at least in this exceptional period, the Government should, on behalf of this fair compensation, seek ways to exceptionally bring back to the State the profits that private health groups obtain with this pandemic and channel them directly to combat poverty and social support. There is moral and respect in this fight, which is collective and that demands everyone's effort! With or without a state of emergency, it is necessary to give private health groups an opportunity to also participate in this effort, which must be of all. Call them to make their contribution, or that it is necessary to nationalise the pandemic profits. It would, in fact, be absolutely unacceptable, not to say morbidly, that this pandemic could represent a business opportunity for the private health sector. We look forward to the state of courage of the government in this emergency of elementary justice.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u38	Mr André Ventura has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u39	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Government Members : We already knew we had a grotesque lack of preparation for this second VOCID-19 strike. But if we can call it'second wave', there is something to highlight: it is that we have the most experienced Prime Minister in Europe, the first that said we would have a second wave. And we recognize this extraordinary merit of having "touched your finger in the wound" at the right time. But what does it matter "to touch your finger in the wound" if it is not resolved or even healed the wound with the time and means that the Portuguese gave it to you? Oh, my God! That responsibility will always be yours, Prime Minister, because in time he said there would be and at the same time he decided to do nothing to fight it. But I would also like to say to you, Prime Minister, that the parties, as well as the Portuguese, are being misled by the measures you have taken in the last state of emergency. What we were told was that there would be a "legal hat" which would allow us to take measures to control the pandemic, but what we had were absurd restrictions, which killed trade and restoration, which concentrated and confined people at hours when they should not be confined, which prevented social life and gave others a political gateway to be able to pronounce themselves. No one understands these measures, nor will anyone understand that adherence to them can be minimally significant. But, Prime Minister, this is also the state of emergency of ideological blindness, because, at the same time as we say we will support the losses of restaurants in the last year, in which they were closed most of the time, we allow PCP partners to hold their congress in Loures, one of the municipalities where the transmission of COVID-19 is higher in Portugal. Mr. Prime Minister, maybe it's better to be the CFP organizing Christmas this year,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u40	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u41	...because so we will be sure that there will be Christmas, in Portugal, for all families. We therefore ask the PCP to organize this year's Christmas parties. [[Protests by PCP MP João Oliveira.]] But this is also the state of emergency of total disorientation and disorganization. It is the government that says that the support has already reached 80 % of the companies and the sector says that it has reached 20 %. [[PS protests.]] It is the government that says there are 40 outbreaks in schools and the FENPROF (National Federation of Teachers) says there are 400 outbreaks in schools. This is not a state of emergency, it is a state of deception to the Portuguese that will not reach and in which it will not participate. Mr. Prime Minister, in democracy, we must be loyal between ourselves and loyalty to the Portuguese. [[PS and PCP protests.]] But I want to tell you here that the arrival will resist on the streets and where it can stand against this state of emergency, alongside those who, at the moment, see the low incomes, the cut family life and the social life destroyed, in the name of an ideological prejudice that will no longer do but lead us to the greatest crisis of our lives. We will resist and here we will be, again and again, throughout all the streets of Portugal, fighting against these absurd restrictions by the state of emergency they want to impose on us!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u42	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u43	We are going to fight, democratically, to show that we are going the wrong way. And here we will be, within a few months, so that the Portuguese will tell us whether or not we were right about the evaluation we did. [[Protests of PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u44	For an intervention, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the IL, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u45	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: 15 days ago, when the Liberal Initiative voted against the state of emergency, we stated here clearly that we do not pass blank checks to this government. We have affirmed that they do not count on our vote to have excessive powers, which can use without scientific justification and the tow of inconsistent decisions. The reality has given us even more reason than we thought. Thus, 48 hours before the entry into force of the state of emergency, the Prime Minister said that it did not include the introduction of compulsory collection. Now, that was the first step. This same compulsory collection is, in fact, transformed at the end of the week into a genuine general confinement, from 13 hours, once again without justification that is seen, but with two results that are very well seen: unnecessary agglomerations of people in commercial establishments during the morning; and today we are aware of invoice breaks of more than 50 % of various services, especially restoration, activity where more than 600 000 Portuguese are employed. But worse, we also learned yesterday at the Infarmed meeting, through the only public study on the subject, that the data do not even support the claim that going to a restaurant increases the risk of infection. at this time, with the data that have been made available to us, it can be said that the government has taken decisions that will destroy a sector, on the basis of nothing. But the government's disorientation is not here. Last week, the PS propaganda machine circulated the information that he knew very well in what circumstances people were infected. This was not known only in 5 % of cases. Well, we also learned yesterday that, in fact, cases of unknown contagion origin are not 5 %, they are 81 % — certainly, a small difference for the PS. It is this type of incompetence that is turning the supposed Portuguese miracle into a tragedy, with costs for thousands and thousands of Portuguese. We insist on the final point: it makes no sense to continue taking pandemic containment measures without weighing the costs for society and for the economy, those costs that can be at least as serious as those of the pandemic itself. Nine months after the start of the fight against COVID, it is inconceivable that we have not consolidated the necessary scientific and empirical knowledge to make these decisions with weight and consistency. As for the decree of the state of emergency, it can be even worse than the previous one. The same lightness, the same blank check, but with an additional requirement of evil: to prohibit health professionals from disengageing from the SNS. They could no longer force any Portuguese to enter, they now forbid these Portuguese to leave. For all this, and it would not have to be reaffirmed, the Liberal Initiative will vote against the declaration of the state of emergency, because above all we value individual freedom and responsibility.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u46	For an intervention, you now have the floor of Mrs Joacine Katar Moreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u47	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: COVID-19 increases with the number of infected, of patients, of inpatients, but it is necessary that this state of emergency, whose renewal is intended here today, be an emergency state that not only serves the requirement of individuals but that it is an emergency state that goes further and does what you are resisting, that is a requirement of the institutions, namely to draw reason and call the country private institutions, to place the burden on these institutions, because the individuals, in their majority, have responded to the call not to leave anyone behind. But today I would also like to mention here another element: one cannot speak of a state, whether it is of emergency, of calamity or of contingency, if it is not about democracy and the attacks on democracy. It is insufficient to defend a socially and economically robust state if we withdraw strength from it by our inaction and passivity, in the face of attacks on its citizens and its citizens and democracy itself. I therefore believe that it is time to act also, or mentally, a democratic state that is anti-racist, that does not admit racist manifestations, a democratic state that is feminist and that protects women in this environment where the pandemic originates even more violence and also a democratic state that effectively respects us, is inclusive and equal. This means an intersectoral state of emergency that values and responds to the demands of the most disadvantaged, the invisible and the sedentary of justice. Combating the pandemic of racial and ethnic supremacy, combating the pandemic of arrogance, violence and hatred, the installation of chaos and political opportunism at a time of health emergency, this is one of the states of emergency that we must act and is, I repeat, a shame — the favorite word of Mr Ventura — we will be sitting here as if nothing happened in Portugal, as if there were no attacks on democracy, as if there were no racism in Portugal,... [[CH protests.]] ...as if we were all in the same wave of equality, of development. It is time to act and not compromise with what must be fought at this very moment.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u48	It is the time of Mrs.Cristina Rodrigues who is not registered. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u49	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister and other members of the Government, Mr and Mr Members: I begin by raising the attitude of great responsibility that the Portuguese have had in the face of the declaration of the state of emergency. And they make us, many of them knowing that, by closing the doors of their establishments, they lose income that is essential to them for the survival of their businesses, for the fulfilment of their obligations, for the support of their families at home and for the maintenance of their jobs, so it is important to create conditions for employers to keep these jobs, avoiding more redundancies. I call for any restriction on rights, freedoms and guarantees in the case of approval of the extension of the state of emergency, to which I shall vote in favour, to safeguard the principles of equality, proportionality, adequacy and free competition. Restrictions on movement on public roads and supply of goods may entail exceptions, but cannot create competitive advantages between companies. Institutions which may keep the doors open for sale essential goods must be prevented from selling any other goods. in the same way, it is important to ensure that some of the customer support is maintained while there is a breakdown of income, as a result of the pandemic situation, such as the variable income regime. Once again, we recall that cultural professionals are in a very precarious situation and each time we limit their ability to work more precariously. This is why it is urgent to support the culture sector, at least by exempting its professionals at this stage from the obligation to pay social security contributions. Other measures that need to be considered are, for example, the case of universities taking exclusive courses online, provided that it is ensured that this system is accessible to all students and that college services remain operational. Finally, and once again, I call for everyone's responsibility in the management of the pandemic, since, although public prevention policies are fundamental, it is also essential for each person to act alone in the fight against this virus, which has had a great impact on the lives of all of us and only with a collective effort will we be able to overcome this difficult phase.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u50	To close the debate, the Government has the floor Mr. Minister of Internal Administration, Eduardo Cabrita.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u51	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, we are here to discuss, for the fifth time in our democratic history, the application of exceptional measures under the state of emergency regime. We are discussing the extension of the decision taken two weeks ago, at the initiative of His Excellency the President of the Republic, and it is essential that exemplary accession, the civic sense, the sense of responsibility that the Portuguese have demonstrated over these two weeks be accompanied by the harmony that all sovereignty agencies manifest around these measures, indispensable to defend freedom, to defend health, to defend democracy. That is why the Government has issued an opinion in favour of the proposal for a decree by Mr President of the Republic today and here under consideration. The Government expresses its appreciation for the fact that more than 90 % of the members of the Assembly of the Republic manifest a position which translates into the feasibility of this second emergency period. The certainty that we have is that this will be a long battle, a battle for freedom, health and life. We were here on November 6 to discuss a first emergency period. Since then, around the world, 7 million cases have increased to 50 million and more 110,000 lives have been lost a little around the world. In the European framework, the European Union mobilizes itself to find what will be the answer, in a coordinated means of mobilisation in the acquisition of vaccines that we wish, at the beginning of the year, also in Portugal, to be accessible, creating a framework of hope to overcome the pandemic. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Many Members who have attended yesterday's evaluation in Infarmed by the experts who are verifying it is a framework in which it is obvious that only sustainability, only the persistence in the adequacy of measures that effectively reduce the contagios, which reduce the contacts that promote these contagios, allows a response that results in a sustained reduction of cases, a sustained reduction of hospitalizations, a sustained reduction of deaths. It is this persistence, it is this collective resilience—and the Portuguese received in an exemplary way, in the last weekend, what are difficult measures — which are required here of those responsible for all the benches. That is why, when the picture we have is that, in the next few days, extremely high levels are being reached, both in cases verified and in projections, in the coming weeks, at a very worrying level of deaths, we have to say: "Yes, it is necessary not to give up! This is our solidarity with all the victims of this disease and with all those who, in the National Health Service, protect us and defend our health, our life, our freedom in every day. [[P.S.'s applause.]] On November 2, 121 municipalities were placed in a framework of more restrictive measures; on November 12, this restriction framework, under the state of emergency, was extended to 191 municipalities; in relation to the currently available data, the picture we have is that this number of municipalities will nearly exceed the two hundred. Therefore, it is necessary to continue to make the differentiation that has always been made in the adoption of measures. The Government has always taken on its responsibilities full and timely. We did so in March, before the first period of the declaration of the state of emergency, closing schools, applying to the health area in Ovar, taking courageous preventive measures. We did it, without a state of emergency, in July and August with the measures taken in relation to 19 parishes of five municipalities of the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon. We therefore also support this statement of the state of emergency, which creates the legal framework that is essential exclusively to what are restrictive measures of rights, freedoms and guarantees. The Government continues to take action, and has done so, to combat the pandemic, such as the application of screening mechanisms, through professionals outside the health sector. Therefore, in less than two weeks, almost a thousand public officials, security personnel, the Armed Forces or civil protection agents are already being trained for screening. Moreover, all necessary measures are already being taken to program the distribution of vaccines by Portuguese as soon as they are available. The measures taken since the end of October have resulted in a significant reduction, by about 40%, in the incidence in the first three municipalities where exceptional measures have been adopted. These municipalities still have high levels of incidence that justify the maintenance of particularly demanding levels for these encouraging results to be consolidated. So we will have to continue this effort, differentiating what is not the same and taking into account what is the local or regional reality. But in this battle for life, it is essential, as I said here 15 days ago, to say that the state of democratic law means that, in the application of these measures, security forces exercise the authority of the State without any abuse, in a fundamentally pedagogical dimension and guarantee the rights of citizens and that the pandemic does not suspend democracy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I am therefore surprised at the considerations of the right-wing and extreme-right benches, which call for the suspension of democracy. Today we are taking truly exceptional decisions in a constitutional framework. We do so under the Constitution and under the law of the state of the site and the state of emergency adopted in 1986, on the initiative of the Government led by Prime Minister Prof. Cavaco Silva, when Dr. Mário Soares was President of the Republic. It is this state of emergency law which says in its Article 2. paragraph 2 ( e) that meetings of the statutory bodies of political parties, trade unions and professional associations shall not be prohibited, dissolved or subject to prior authorisation. That was the time when the action of parties, trade unions or professional associations was banned! [[P.S.'s applause.]] The criticism made to Mr President of the Republic is therefore unfair because the presidential decree cannot prohibit what is prohibited by law. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is why, in this framework of responsibility for all institutions, by the way they interpret the application of the rules of the state of emergency, and of all citizens, by the way they interpret the application of this legal and constitutional framework—because, unfortunately, the only certainty we have is that we will be discussing once again the extension to a third period of emergency—which requires the mobilization of the entire Portuguese society, of all the institutions and of the Assembly of the Republic, in their legislative, supervisory and voice competence of all Portuguese people, to mobilize efforts in this fight for life, for freedom, for health, to prove that we will fight and overcome, in democracy, this terrible pandemic. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u52	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of the debate on the renewal of the state of emergency declaration. We shall then proceed to your vote and then have to vote for a debate on the proper functioning of the plenary from next Monday. These will be the only votes to be taken today. We then begin by voting on the renewal of the authorisation requested by the President of the Republic for the declaration of the state of emergency. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PSD and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues, votes against the PCP, the ENP, the CH, the IL and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstains from BE, CDS-PP and the PAN.]] The renewal of the state of emergency declaration was therefore approved.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u53	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u54	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u55	Mr President, it is to announce that I will present a written statement of vote in person on the vote we have just made.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u56	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr Ventura also asked for the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u57	Mr President, it is for the same purpose and also to say that I cannot register, but I am here.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u58	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr. João Gonçalves Pereira, asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u59	Mr President, it is to announce that I will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u60	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs. Isabel Moreira also asked for the floor. Is it for what purpose, Your Honor?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u61	Mr President, it is to announce that I have already sent a statement of vote to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u62	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We shall now proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 761 / XIV / 2. a ( PAR) — Approves exceptional procedures for the participation of Members in plenary sessions and their registration of presence. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we turn to the second item on the agenda, which, as you know, is on the subject of the discussion of Law No 60 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Law of the Great Options for 2021 - 2023 and 61 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Approves the State budget for 2021. We have a very complex and long task ahead of us. Above all, I wish the members of the Committee on Budgets and Finance and their President all the best luck because they are going to have a huge job in the coming days. In the plenary, as you know, we just discuss the articles and then we will be able to vote on any attorneys that will certainly be made from next week. Let us therefore begin with the Bill No 61 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ), with the assessment in Article 2, Chapter I. o — Strengthened value. The Bureau recorded the registration of four ladies and gentlemen. Members to intervene: Mariana Mortágua, João Paulo Correia, André Silva and Afonso Oliveira. Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u63	Mr President, if we could change the order of speeches, I would like to thank you for this period of change of Members in the benches.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u64	Mr João Paulo Correia has the floor then.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u65	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Socialist Party said that this budget, when it was delivered to the Assembly of the Republic on 12 October, was a combat budget. A budget to combat one of the greatest crises and one of the greatest challenges facing the country, Europe and the world, a budget to combat the public health crisis, a budget to combat the economic and social crisis. The budget presented was built on the basis of dialogue, based on discussions with our parliamentary partners. It is a Budget that has advanced in the areas considered priority, since the strengthening of the National Health Service, also through the strengthening of the social dimension, the protection of income, the protection of employment and support for families.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u66	Mr President, I ask you to interrupt for a few seconds so that the banks that are taking the normal replacement of their elements can stabilize so that there is some silence in the Chamber and you can continue. [[Pause.]] Mr. Deputies, please continue.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u67	Mr President, it is therefore worth starting the speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u68	As you wish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u69	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, the Socialist Party said, at the time of the delivery of the Budget in the Assembly of the Republic, on October 12, that this was a Combat Budget. A budget to combat the greatest crisis in Portugal, Europe and the world has been facing for decades, a budget to combat a huge challenge ahead of us, a budget to combat the public health crisis, a budget to combat the economic and social crisis. It is a Budget that again reinforces the National Health Service, which strengthens essential services, which strengthens the social dimension and social responses to families and to those who are victims of abrupt breakdown in incomes. It is a Budget that protects families, protects employment and strengthens and values family incomes. Therefore, we said that this Budget has brought progress in these priority areas, which could not and should not be wasted. It is a budget which, in addition to keeping the whole path made over the past five years in terms of income policy, advances in all these areas. That is why we said that, in addition to being a budget to fight against the demands of the country and this crisis, it has a huge social dimension that could not be wasted on the exchange of party agendas. It is a Budget that guarantees the hiring of 4200 professionals for the National Health Service ; it guarantees the hiring of 260 professionals for INEM ( National Institute of Medical Emergency ) ; it guarantees the risk allowance for professionals on the front line COVID ; it guarantees investments in primary health care and hospitals ; and, as I said recently, historically, brings a huge increase in investment in the National Health Service so that it continues to respond to the demands of this public health crisis. It is a budget that guarantees the strengthening of public school, with the hiring of thousands of operational assistants, which strengthens social security, with the duplication of human resources in the social emergency line, and which ensures the recruitment of more professionals to the Social Security Institute. It is a Budget that values and protects income, which guarantees the increase of the national minimum wage, in the perspective that it will increase up to 750 € on the horizon of this Legislation. It is a budget which, with the proposals of the Socialist Party, guarantees the extraordinary increase in pensions, also negotiated with our parliamentary partners, particularly with the CFP. From January onwards, the lowest pensions will have a new extraordinary increase. It is a Budget that guarantees an increase in the minimum unemployment allowance limit for those who have worked full-time, so from January 2021, those who receive the minimum unemployment allowance will have an increase of €66 per month, which obviously guarantees an appreciation of this benefit. It is a Budget that guarantees a new social benefit that responds to a number of challenges in order not to leave anyone behind. The situation of those people and families who are the main victims of this crisis is guaranteed by this new social benefit. The management partners will also become eligible for the new social benefit. In the event of general confinement, such as what happened in the first state of emergency, partners-managers and self-employed may access this social benefit, without condition of recourse; workers on the other hand, when they come to their exhausted unemployment allowance, will be covered by this new social benefit, without condition of resources; and workers in situations of economic and social disprotection will also be able to access this new social benefit, provided they are linked to social security. It is also a Budget that guarantees an increase in the minimum of existence at IRS (tax on income of natural persons), making more than 20,000 families no longer required to declare and pay IRS. It is a Budget that guarantees the fall in IRS retention rates, allowing EUR 200 million to stop being on the side of the state, the tax revenue, and to be on the side of families. In the protection of employment, it is an Budget that guarantees the Layoff at 100 %, thus helping and supporting a set of workers and families, but at the same time helping and supporting a large set of companies, especially those who are having a sudden breakdown of their production due to the public health crisis. It is a Budget which also ensures that large profit companies can continue to access tax benefits only if they maintain the same level of employment in 2021. It is a Budget that guarantees support for families, such as a proposal submitted by the Socialist Party in the specialty so that essential service cuts such as light, water, gas and telecommunications are prohibited to families suffering from a sudden breakdown of income. It is a Budget which, with the proposal of the Socialist Party, once again reinforces Porta 65, a programme to support young leases. And it is also a Budget that guarantees the expansion of the social water tariff to Grande Lisboa, which was out of this measure. It is also a budget that guarantees support for companies. This is the example of extending bank guarantees to credit lines granted to firms in difficulty. It is billions of euros of state guarantees that are well present. It is a Budget which guarantees the increase in public investment above 20 % and, as I said recently, in support of companies, is a Budget which guarantees the Layoff at 100 %. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, from our point of view, this State budget fully responds to the great challenge facing the country, in the dimension of the public health crisis and in the dimension of the economic and social crisis on the ground. It is a budget that was built of progress in dialogue with our parliamentary partners, not only at the time of the delivery of the Budget on 12 October, but also during the specialization period, because the Socialist Party and the Government continued to dialogue with their parliamentary partners. The Government's proposal and the votes to be voted in favour of the Socialist Party are the product of the progress of these talks and negotiations, meaning and will mean the progress of these talks. on the right side, we see the parties that turned and turned their backs to the country at a time of great demand. The Portuguese, families and businesses are paying attention and know that this budget needs to be approved. Those who vote against this budget are against all these measures. It is not worth feeding the idea that the country can be ruled in twelfths, because, if the country was to be ruled in twelfths, all the measures I just stated would not be implemented. The right, led by the PSD, which is increasingly a party closer to the Arrival than the PPD, has missed this call. The PSD turned its backs on families, businesses and the economy. The PSD said that this budget distributes what it has and what it does not have and gives everything to everyone, but it was the PSD that presented a set of proposals that, if approved, would trigger the state's expenditure in 2021, at about 700 million euros and bring down the tax revenue in billions of euros. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The PSD has behaved irresponsiblely and incoherently in the specialty, and we cannot stop charging. PSD is increasingly a game close to the Arrival and far from the PPD! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u70	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we are already in a position to hear Mrs Mariana Mortágua, and you have the floor, Mrs Mortágua.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u71	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, « a budget that does not add crisis to the crisis », « a budget that does not add crisis to the crisis », « a budget that does not add crisis to the crisis »... this was the phrase repeated by Minister João Leon, to exhaustion, as if it were a mantra that the Minister would repeat, seeking recognition or perhaps redemption, we do not know very well. The truth is that such recognition exists. The Economic and Social Council, the Council of Public Finance, the UTAO ( Technical Unit for Budget Support ), three institutions that have analysed the Budget, are unanimous: this budget does not add crisis to the crisis, but does nothing more to remove crisis from the crisis and to remove the country from the crisis. The IMF ( International Monetary Fund ) places us in the group of countries that least invests in measures to combat the pandemic. The European Commission says that, without the exceptional and temporary measures, which are short, the State budget is a retractionist, it is a budget that adds crisis to the crisis. When they are out there asking for investment to fight the pandemic, here, the government opts for the strategy of always, which is to make as little as possible, only as possible, in the last hour, as if a public health pandemic and the threat of the greatest crisis that we have ever experienced in our lives, since the Second World War, were no more than sufficient reasons to change all governance priorities. If this is not the time for strong measures to protect the country, if this is not the time to wager everything in the defence of public health, SNS, employment and income, when will this be? Oh, my God! What, then, is the right time to have a budget that fights the public health crisis and the economic and social crisis? Oh, my God! The Government must look at the country and must recognize that every day that passes, at every hour that passes, this Budget is more out of date, even before it has entered into force. Doctors continue to leave the SNS, the economic consequences of the second wave have not been guarded, unemployment has not been guarded, the loss of income has not been guarded. And the government continues to reject any stable structural solution for the SNS for social support for employment rules. The Government insists on the instability of marginal, temporary and hasty measures taken at the last hour. The Left Block presented 12 measures of change to this State Budget: autonomy for health institutions can contract for the SNS, careers for health assistant technicians and full dedication for professionals to stay in the SNS. It is only the irony of these institutions that they have autonomy in order to be able to hire private people at speculative prices and guarantee profits to private institutions. Imagine only the irony of having an emergency state that decrees that people cannot resign from the SNS, but at the same time does not recognize the autonomy of hospitals in order to be able to hire the professionals they need, does not recognize a career to which the SNS guarantees every day for the national minimum wage and does not guarantee conditions for doctors to stay exclusively in the SNS. These are three health measures presented by the Left Block, which can be approved by the PS in this Budget. But we introduced more. We presented the redundancies compensation, making the dismissal more difficult, returning to the 20-day compensation proposal, which the PS defended in the past. Maintaining employment, all employment, including precarious employment in companies that are supported by the State... Keeping employment is the priority. We propose to end the expiry of collective bargaining. If expiry is wrong, if it should be suspended, why does it not end up protecting workers in a period of enormous pressure? Oh, my God! We also propose the most favourable replacement of treatment. The law must prevail over all and the working conditions must be protected. We propose the end of the extension of the experimental period, which has left so many people without support, without compensation for dismissal, in poverty. We want a rule, a law that protects workers who, in the pandemic, deliver goods at home and who work on platforms, in greater precariousness, without any protection. We want strong rules for unemployment allowance and social unemployment allowance, which respond to these benefits with the regime that existed before austerity, because the country cannot face the greatest ever crisis with the rules that were imposed in the time of the previous crisis. Finally, we propose extraordinary support for the income of workers who do not allow anyone, but no one, to enter poverty because of this crisis, because of the pandemic. The last proposal is that transparency be taken seriously and there is no injection into the New Bank, without before there is an audit by the Court of Auditors to the management of the New Bank, and then that decision can be made transparently with the positioning of each party in the Assembly of the Republic. There are 12 measures for the State budget, 12 commitments that are still possible. It is up to the Socialist Party to decide whether to accept these commitments or to opt for a strategy of "burned land", which may compromise the State budget. The Left Block will support a budget that responds to the crisis. They don't count on us for a budget that fails the country! [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u72	Mr André Silva of the NAP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u73	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, there are several disagreements in the NAP with regard to some of the political options of this Budget, and we have counted them over the past few weeks at the various stages of the debate. But that does not mean that we have put ourselves on the margins of discussion, with orthodox and sectarian positions. The NAP has done what is expected of a responsible party: work to ensure that, in times of crisis we live, the State Budget leaves Parliament much better than it has entered. And, therefore, we have tabled 263 amendments, which, being approved, give the answers that the country needs, guarantee that this will be a Budget able to start laying the groundwork for the recovery of health, economic, social and climate crises. These proposals will begin to be voted on today until Thursday, and we now want to point out four packages of very concrete measures which, for the NAP, are'red lines' in the evaluation that we will make to determine the meaning of the final vote, which is now open. From now on, a package of measures aimed at combating corruption and deepening transparency and through strengthening human resources to combat corruption, fraud and economic and financial crime in the Attorney-General's Office of the Republic and the Judicial Police. The defence of transparency materialises through the proposal to create a portal for transparency of European funds, which publishes supported projects, their budgetary cost, beneficiary entities, award criteria and their degree of implementation. Without transparency mechanisms it is not possible to regain people's confidence in institutions. We have a second package of proposals aimed at strengthening the rights of citizens, either by means of the Safe University measure, which strengthens the policing of proximity to higher education institutions and student housing, either by adapting shelters for victims of domestic violence and homeless people to ensure the reception of pets, or by the end of the value added in customer support calls. The third package of proposals aims to respond to the environmental crisis and the climate emergency, with the ban on the marketing of cosmetics or detergents containing microplastics, the restriction on the marketing of biofuels containing palm oil, or the implementation of a fundamental measure in the fight against pollution of the oceans, which passes through the removal, in the Portuguese sea, of fishing networks and other plastics. But we do not forget the new environmental scourge of pollution of disposable masks and therefore propose to carry out a massive national information campaign to raise awareness of its correct discard. And here we all have to make a joint effort, because the last thing the country needs right now is that the environmental crisis is getting even worse as we go through this health crisis. The fourth and final package of proposals aims to provide more protection for animals, either through the transfer to municipalities of EUR 10 million for investment in official collection centres, to support the improvement of the facilities of zoophyll associations and with a view to improving the provision of veterinary services to animals held by deprived families, through protocols with university veterinary hospitals, or through the hiring of 20 veterinary doctors for ICNF (Instituto da Conservação da Nature et das Florestas), which now finally protects the protection of pets, something for which the PAN very much battled, or also through the creation of designated areas of 'hope spots' protecting marine and biodiversity areas. But we know that, as we have'red lines', the Socialist Party also has them and is unable to review their positions in the name of improvements to the country. But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Socialist Party does not have an absolute majority and there are several proposals put forward by the NAP that will not be approved only if the PSD and the other parties do not want to. Materials that are not left or right and that do not compromise the balance of public accounts, so we hope that the PSD will be able to overcome its usual sectarianism at the time of voting.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u74	The PSD? Sectarianism? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u75	Will the PSD enable the strategic environmental assessment of Montijo Airport, proposed by the NAP? How will the PSD vote on the NAP proposal to reduce middle-class IRS? Does the PSD follow the NAP proposal to ensure more transparency in green hydrogen business? Will the PSD be consistent with what you did in 2013 and vote in favour of the NAP proposal to renegotiate ruinous PPPs (public-private partnerships) by road? The PSD will vote in favour of the NAP proposal that combats the precariousness of young employment within the framework of the IEFP (Instituto do Employo e Formation Professional)? We therefore question whether the PSD will stand by these urgent improvements or, as we have seen so many times, will give the Socialist Party a hand again and contribute to the negative majority, so damaging to the country and to the people? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u76	Mr Afonso Oliveira of the PSD Parliamentary Group now speaks.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u77	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, in the discussion of the State budget for 2020, the Prime Minister, in an attitude of great satisfaction and enormous unrealisticity, said that was his best budget. This debate still took place this year, with the budgetary procedure in February, just one month before the outbreak of the pandemic. What is worrying to the Portuguese is that Mr. Prime Minister is very pleased with bad State budgets. And this budget we are discussing here today is so good, so good, so good that it has a record number of amendments tabled by the parties in this Parliament. The State budgets should exist to serve the Portuguese rather than to feed the ego of those who produce them! We said in this debate of the State Budget for 2020 that it was a Budget that had reached a new record of tax burden and that it had not met the needs of investment in health and the needs of improving public services. And we didn't need a crisis to realize that we were right! It's just that the future doesn't guess, it's getting ready! And preparation is not the middle name of this government. Unfortunately, we have a government that, over the past five years, has not acted to meet the challenges of the future. And without strategy, without direction, it's not easy to find the best way. It is true, indeed, that this proposal for the State Budget for 2021 is presented in truly exceptional circumstances, in the face of an unprecedented crisis. But it is also true that the government has to present solutions that respond to the enormous difficulties faced by workers, those who have lost their jobs, entrepreneurs, businesses, young people, the elderly and the most disadvantaged. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u78	The Government presents a proposal for a State budget which is not at the time we live, which does not respond to the crisis in which we are immersed, which does not bet on companies, which is the same as saying that it does not bet on employment, which serves for very little to the extent of the problems we all face. Let it be very clear that the proposal for a State Budget is the responsibility of the Government and not of any opposition party. to PSD, as we have always said, it is an attitude of great responsibility! Responsibility and sense of state is the mark of the PSD, and even more so at the moment we live. It is the brand of the PSD in the attitude to combat the pandemic, it is the brand of the PSD in the search for the country's economic recovery solutions. And here we are, at the stage of the vote, to demonstrate that this is our brand, Mr André Silva! The 91 proposed amendments to the Budget submitted by the PSD have as fundamental objectives improving the public health strategy, responding to the absence of measures to stimulate economic recovery, strengthening the territorial cohesion of the country. We present proposals such as: recovery of waiting lists for surgeries and consultations, in conjunction with the private and social sector; extension of home support services to health care; aid Mr. Prime Minister to fulfil his promise to ensure that all users have a family doctor; inclusion of managers in the new extraordinary support for workers' incomes; oblige the State to pay its suppliers within 30 days; create a tax incentive to reduce income in commercial establishments; ensure that there are no captivating of money for the disabled in the Armed Forces; extend the freeness of school textbooks to students in need of private and cooperative education; reduce by 50 % the price of tolls in the former SCUT(free tolls for the user) of the country and the Algarve from 1 July 2021, with possible renegotiating of contracts with concessionary companies. These are proposals that aim solely, with balance and equity, to respond to the needs of the Portuguese. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, what is not acceptable is that the Government and the Socialist Party always use the same strategy at this stage of the budget debates — as we have already seen today, Mr. João Paulo Correia, to always create a narrative of the attack on the PSD. The only thing you know how to do at this stage of the debate—we were expecting that—is to create here a narrative of attack on the PSD. [[It's true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u79	Well, they could try to help the government rule — they could, but it was not the same thing! They could help the government solve the crisis that exists in relation to the agreements with the CFP and the Left Block — they could, but it was not the same thing! The only thing they do is create a narrative here — which is not true, Mr João Paulo Correia! — not true. It is important that we speak truth here to the Portuguese and not advance with numbers, which is the custom. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u80	As you will recall, already last year Mr Mário Centeno advanced with an extraordinary number, fantastic, saying that the PSD had 2000 million spending forecast in his proposal. It's unbelievable! This year comes with a value that is about a third. Finally, next year we imagine ourselves, it will be a little less! So what matters here is speaking truth to the Portuguese. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, I conclude by affirming our commitment to contribute in this debate to improving a bad budget. That's what we're gonna do, because that's what we really have to do! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u81	Mr João Oliveira of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u82	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, we started to discuss the budget in the speciality with the consideration that the budget proposal does not include the overall response needed to national problems. That is why we have tabled some 320 amendments, which translate concrete solutions to the many problems that mark national life in the present and which concern us about their future evolution. And we say this, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, with an increased concern, because, from the time the budget proposal is presented until the moment we begin our discussion and vote on the speciality, the situation in which the country is located is not the same. The last month has meant a very substantial increase in the economic and social situation, in the problems that today mark the lives of millions of Portuguese people and which, of course, exacerbate concerns about the future. However, it is because of this reality of the present, also because of the concerns that are projected for the future, which have to be found in a global response that cannot take into account only part of the existing problems by leaving the rest outside, which truly gives the security, the tranquility, the comfort that the Portuguese need to have answers to the problems they face. The budget itself is not enough — I fear it and we reaffirm it today. The Government must also take measures that go beyond the Budget, including measures involving the repeal of the serious standards of labour law, which involve the increase in the minimum wage and the general increase in wages for all workers, the recovery of public control of strategic enterprises, such as CTTs, ANA - Airports of Portugal or the New Bank. The State budget must be integrated in this overall response, which is necessary for national problems, and it itself contains the corresponding solutions at the budgetary level. We have also said, in the characterization and evaluation that we make of the budget proposal that was presented and in what was insufficient consideration by the Government not only of the problems we faced but also of the political options that needed to be taken into account in order to find answers to these same problems, that the government's options do not correspond to these objectives. And they do not correspond to these objectives, because they give priority to reducing the deficit, in a framework of accentuation of the economic and social crisis; because they are options that limit public investment, at a time when it is fundamental to the advantage of economic growth and the response to the economic situation we face; because they are options that add to measures that were decided on and for which there were commitments, such as the general valuation of wages, not only in relation to the Public Administration but also in relation to the private sector, as regards the national minimum wage; because they translate a perspective of public services in relation to the response to social problems that were not consistent with the seriousness of the problems we face and the prospects of their development, which can be negative in the very short term. One month later, we are in fact faced with this situation of worsening uncertainty and economic and social difficulties and it becomes even more urgent to take advantage of and mobilize all the resources available to the country to meet the needs of the workers, the people and the country. We have tabled the 320 proposals, which we are bringing to the debate today, with the conviction that, if the problems are great, there are possibilities to find solutions at the same time — there is political will! There is a political will to put in place what is needed to respond to this economic and social situation that we face, not with the prospect of only minimizing the damage but with a real perspective of responding to the fundamental problems that are put in the health and economic and social perspective — strengthening the National Health Service, expanding and strengthening social protection, the capacity of the public services to have the workers they need, the means and the investment appropriate to the needs that the country faces — and there may indeed be a response to this situation. Responsibility is on the side of the government and on the side of the Socialist Party. It was the Government that presented this proposal for a State budget which is not useful and it is the Government that has the responsibility to take the options that allow the budget to be integrated into the overall response to national problems. It is to this responsibility that the Government and the Socialist Party cannot escape in any way. The 320 proposals presented by the CFP will confront the Government with the need to make these options and it is on the part of the Government and the Socialist Party that is responsible for giving the answer and the last word about the meaning they want to give to national problems. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u83	Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Greens has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u84	Mr President, the Greens abstained in the general vote, but, as is public, they did not refrain from bringing amendments to the specialty. As we have already mentioned, this abstention had a very clear purpose, which was to give the PS an opportunity to show some openness in order to welcome the proposals which the Greens have timely signalled as priorities to make this Budget more robust in responding to the problems of the country and the Portuguese. They are proposals that affect areas that, from the outset, we have identified as fundamental, such as combating poverty, strengthening public services, particularly in health, education and public transport, and finally a serious response to the climate crisis we face. Thus, and on the social level, we highlight in particular: the proposals for amendments to the solidarity complement for the elderly (SIC), in order to take into account only the income of the applicant or his spouse; the reduction in the time limit for the allocation of unemployment benefit and the social unemployment allowance for workers on behalf of others and self-employed persons; the allocation of the free transport pass to the unemployed; the consideration of health costs spent on the purchase of masks, visas and gel; the allocation of support to micro and small enterprises; specific measures for the restoration sector; and a careful look at family agriculture. As for public services, there are several proposals for strengthening them, where it stands out: strengthening resources in primary and intensive health care units; replacing consultations and schedules in primary health care units; recruiting professionals for public education institutions; and supporting the relocation of teachers. Still in public services, but at transport level, we are putting forward proposals for the strengthening of funds for public transport, but also measures to promote soft mobility, as is the case with bicycles. On the environmental level, and in addition to the various proposals to deal with climate combat and our environmental values, The Greens highlight: strengthening human and technical resources for nature conservation; tax incentives to promote energy efficiency; promoting indigenous forest species; ending public support for intensive and superintensive crops; and finally the need for a strategic environmental assessment to assess the best options at airport level. And, Mr André Silva, on the strategic environmental assessment of the airport, judging by the poster that still continues in Montijo, the PSD or the airport in Montijo, and already! Therefore, Mr Deputies, do not expect much from the PSD regarding the NAP's proposal on the airport, a proposal that was literally copied by the Greens proposal and which even surprised us because the NAP did not advocate a strategic environmental assessment for the airport, even having a destination to the airport. Anyway, sir, welcome to the club! It is now to wait to see how the PS looks at the proposals, a look that will be very relevant in the construction of the Green sense of vote in the global final vote of this State budget for 2021. [[Congrats from PCP MP João Oliveira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u85	It is the turn of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group to intervene. Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u86	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are beginning the debate on the State Budget, in our specialty, and we are doing so on the same day that an emergency state was voted here. I would like to begin by saying that I find it impossible to speak seriously in this debate, in the speciality of the Budget without also looking at the situation of the country, which is an emergency situation, and health emergency, and that it seems clear to me that the pandemic will not unfortunately end in 2020. It is therefore in this light and in the light of this exceptional situation that the discussion in the specialty should be held. And I'm saying this because I think anyone who looked at the content of the 1500 proposals and the whole Budget would realize that it didn't stick with the notion of the gravity of the situation we were going through. It is normal for parties in the Budget to choose the proposals that signal their differences and priorities. In the case of the CDS, we did this and we focused on what at the moment seemed to be a priority. Our choices focused on protecting families and people in an emergency situation. This means, yes, a fall in the IRS rates, compatible with the economic situation we are going through, a fall in the retention rates at source so that the State does not systematically go to finance itself at the expense of families — gradual, gradual! We also put forward a proposal for 'green road' to health because, in our view, patients are above ideological prejudices. This idea that patients have to wait, as they have been in recent years, until the forces that govern the country find an agreement is unacceptable to us. What matters is that there is treatment and not if it is public, whether it is private or social. We also put forward a proposal for a "valuance pharmacy" for the elderly and for the elderly who have less to be extended so that the arrangements for the participation of medicines can be extended and that this range of the population has access to medicines. We also put forward a number of proposals for support to companies. We know that the left may have the prejudices you want, but without companies there is no job. This is the reality. And a country that has some sectors that consider companies as enemies is a country that is doomed to not have decent wages. The countries where wages are higher and where workers live better are the countries that value the business fabric, which have a competitive taxation for the business fabric and who realize that it is in the private initiative that is the secret of prosperity. Therefore, we have presented several proposals, five of which are fiscal. But this is another curiosity of this budget: it seems that tax measures have become a poor budget relative. In fact, in this budget we are discussing more budgetary knights than measures that are proper to the budget and this is a reflection that I think must be made in Parliament. Yes, the CDS presented a set of priorities and proposals that mark these priorities, but we do not turn this Budget into a simplistic discussion and for the production of titles for social networks about everything and nothing. Thirdly, we also put forward proposals, such as our tradition, for a just and authoritative state. I conclude by saying that over these three days we will discuss a lot of things in this plenary, some of them are essential budgetary matters, and I hope that emergency measures, for both families and businesses, can be approved. I hope, for example, that instead of measures such as VATucher, which are far from necessary, we will have measures for families who are forced to stay at home and for restaurants, which are unfortunately forced to be shut down. That's right, it's a priority. And I also hope that, in those measures which are not budgetary and have very little to do with the Budget, we know that we have a peaceful discussion here and we all realize that there is a lot here that is proposed here in this Budget whose discussion should be held elsewhere, seriously and over time. This is to seriously discuss matters rather than a vote which will be expressed in a few seconds, along genuine voting marathons.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u87	Mr. André Ventura has the floor now. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u88	Mr President, it is curious to hear the Socialist Party say that whoever votes against this budget votes against the country. We had already heard this expression in other latitudes and in other historical moments and never thought it was the Socialist Party to reintroduce into the political debate the «he who is not with us is against us», which could be «even though we will walk in strength alone», although, indeed, they are never alone because they always have the companions who walk with you. [[Protests by PS MP João Paulo Correia.]] But it would also be interesting to see where this Budget will be, and I quote Antonio Costa, « fiscally friendly to those who are suffering ». Well, let's see. It is a fiscally friendly budget for those who are suffering — restoration, tourism, events, hotels — but it is not able to reduce VAT to 6 % at one of the most difficult times in the history of these economic operators! in one of the most difficult moments, it is not able to reduce VAT to 6 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u89	You were in the PSD!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u90	It is not capable of exempting the TSU (unique social rate) at the time when these sectors suffer most and that is what they ask. They make tax credits that, according to all the analyses that have been made, will have an impact of 5 % to 10 % of the operators and cannot imagine a more original measure, more effective than a VAT credit to these real pandemic heroes, who keep the doors open, despite all the difficulties in the economic context in which we live. But it is also a Budget that will be marked by, for the first time in several years, 2, 1 million pensioners see their pension not updated. Such a budget that was a friend of those who suffered, of those who suffer and will continue to suffer will leave behind 2, 1 million pensioners, while insisting on innovative public housing programmes worth hundreds of millions of euros. The pensioners, who worked, were removed to be distributed by public housing. This is the mark of this State Budget. But it is also a mark that fails in transparency, because, in fact, several are the parties, including the Arrival, who present to the Government and the Socialist Party the possibility of preventing new injections of money into the TAP ( Portuguese Air Transport) or the New Bank, without parliamentary approval. And this should not even be a political discussion, it should be a question of transparency, a question of selectivity and seriousness of the budget debate. But we have to finish by saying this: it was said, a month ago, by the Minister of Finance, and I quote, that this was a left-wing budget and that it would reward those who were in the front line against the COVID-19. Now, how is it that a budget that is said to reward those on the front line forgets the pay supplements of the security forces, keeps firefighters without the extraordinary support allowance for COVID-19 and leaves the remuneration of health professionals without updating? Yes, as we said, there are even doctors to earn 1200 €, there are even doctors to earn much less than they should win and emigrate, even in the context of pandemic. Nothing, and no measures of arrest or threat will cause these professionals to retreat but not give them the dignity they deserve in this budgetary instrument and this is not done in this State budget. This budget will probably come out of this House worse than it has entered and the responsibility for approving will remain in the hands of whoever does so.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u91	I remember the ladies. Members we are discussing Article 2 in the Pre-Trial Provisions. o — Strengthened value. Mr Duarte Cordeiro, Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, has the floor to close the entries for intervention. Please, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u92	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, today we begin the special vote on the State budget for the year 2021. This budget takes, as a clear priority, the fight against the pandemic of COVID-19, the protection of people, families and workers and the economic and social recovery of the country. The global pandemic has put us in the face of enormous difficulties. We all accompany the daily struggle of health professionals and those who, in various areas in our life and in our society, despite the difficulties, resist. The economic stops to which we are forced, the economic stops to which the other countries are forced are causing one of the biggest economic recessions we have already experienced and a very intense social crisis. The severity of the pandemic is not characteristic of our country. Around the world we see nations fighting COVID-19 and trying to find the possible answers to the difficult circumstances. We deal with quite uncertainty, but with the hope that together we will quickly win this fight and 2021 will be a year of turn and rapid recovery. The State budget for 2021 seeks to respond clearly to these objectives. To approve the State budget allows to add answers and means to those we have today. It allows us to value those who fight the pandemic, support more people, create more and better instruments to support the economy and be an element of hope and trust for the Portuguese, at the moment when we need positive factors as a society. The Budget of the State is not the Budget of the State of Government, it is the Budget of the Country and for the Country, it is the Budget of the State of Families and for Families, it is the State Budget of all institutions and professionals who fight the pandemic, of all institutions and professionals who manage social support, of all institutions and programmes that manage support to the economy and businesses. With greater or less identification with this Budget, as it is, or as it will be after the vote on the speciality, it will be quite clear that we will always be better, with more answers and more support than if we are limited to what exists today. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We can all pretend that this is not true, but it is absolutely clear that we will always be better, with more support, more answers than we have today. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is in the national interest to enable the State budget. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Portuguese understand that this government will always be the main responsible for the country's management in the current crisis context. We will not share this responsibility with any party that enables this State budget. We are the main responsible for the country's management at the moment of the crisis. We do not reject this responsibility in any way, but it is in the collective interest, in the interests of all of us, to create better conditions for this fight to be done, with more instruments, with more answers and with more means. Through the State Budget we seek to strengthen the conditions for combating the pandemic, with more means for the National Health Service, of which we highlight the growth of the SNS budget in more than 805 million euros, on a continuous strengthening path that we have made since 2015 ; the net hiring of over 4,200 professionals for the SNS and 260 professionals for the INEM ; the creation of an extraordinary grant of 20 % of the salary of all health professionals who are in front of the fight against the pandemic; the continuation of the investment programme in primary care, the expansion of the integrated care network, the continuation of the construction and expansion of new hospitals and the strengthening of the mental health program. With this State budget, and with the commitments we have made in the meantime, we have added guarantees for the protection of employment and increased social support, particularly for people who may be in need and who, for some reason, do not fall within the scope of the conventional social responses, of which I stress the increase in the minimum limit of the unemployment benefit of an IAS (indicating social support) to a higher amount than the poverty threshold; a supplement for those who receive the social unemployment benefit receives an identical value to the poverty threshold; an extraordinary increase in pensions; an extraordinary new social support for workers on behalf of others not covered by unemployment or social unemployment subsidies, but also self-employed workers, domestic service, informal workers, microenterprise partners. This new provision will not take account of its own and permanent housing for the purpose of a condition of resources and intends to support, without a condition of resources, all those who end the unemployment allowance in 2021 or who are obliged to stop their activity. Through the State budget and the commitments that have been made in the meantime, we will add more means and support to businesses to contain the destruction of economic and productive fabric and to promote rapid economic recovery as soon as the pandemic ends. The State budget is not the only answer for economic recovery and for companies and the government is directing all the Community funds at its disposal, so that we can not only quickly inject money into the economy, but, above all, by responding to a transforming agenda that allows us to overcome structural deficits. [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... and global challenges that we have to face, since the digital transition to climate change, which have reflected in these Community funds that are a complement to the State budget for 2021. In the context of the state budget, there is also an increase of 23 % in public investment, in strategic and priority sectors such as health; business support programmes to guarantee job maintenance and recovery, with an estimated value of EUR 900 million; the extension of the moratorium on banking credits and the creation of new credit lines that have injected blood into the economy and saved enterprises, with public guarantees up to EUR 6 billion.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u93	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u94	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Budget of the State delivered to the Assembly of the Republic is the responsibility of the Government, but it has been built in continuous dialogue with the left and environmental parties represented in Parliament, and has reflected in many of the measures and solutions found. We have now entered the process of assessment in the specialty and the parties, as a whole, have submitted more than 1400 amendments. This set of amendments is, in our view, very high and inadequate, especially at the time we are all living. We realize that behind each proposal is a lot of work, we do not devalue the work that each party and every Member of Parliament do in presenting each proposal, but it is very important that we all understand that there is a balance that is necessary. Good sense determines that we should focus on the country's priorities. As we have built the State Budget by hearing and seeking to introduce approaches that respond to many of the priorities of the parties, we will again demonstrate the willingness to frame many of its proposals, but essentially those that reinforce the strengths of this Budget: to combat the pandemic of COVID-19, to protect people, families and workers, to quickly recover the economy and socially recover the Country. We do not fail to record some inconsistencies on the part of some parties, especially the largest party in our opposition, whose leader, at the close of his Parliamentary Days, said that the current State budget seeks to distribute « what he has and what he does not have », accusing the Government of being costly and irresponsible. But then your party submits 150 amendments, with an impact that we believe — and you will certainly have your estimate, which we all like to know — to be more than EUR 700 million. It is appropriate to say: « Well preach Brother Thomas, look at what he says, do not look at what he does. Do not keep on seeking. ” In politics, coherence and responsibility are worth a lot and the PSD has recently not prevailed by either. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] It's been a party that pretends he's not here, one of the times the country needs most. Looks like he took the first chance to disappear from the scene. It seems indifferent to what will happen, to the conditions that the country has to face this crisis. on our side, on the Government's side, the Portuguese can count on our commitment. In all circumstances, we will be facing this fight at this difficult time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u95	Where is Mr. Minister for Finance? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u96	The government did what it was competing for, set a path and made choices. We hope that this process will result in a good budget, the best budget that Portugal needs. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President Fernando Negrão took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u97	We are now entering Article 3. o — Conditional use of budgetary appropriations. Mrs Ana Miguel Santos, from the PSD, has joined in speaking to whom I have already given the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u98	Mr President, since 2016, the use of captives by the Government has increased by about 60 %. For example, in the first half of 2019, the Minister of Finance released only 11 % of the expenditure subject to seizures, which means that 89 % of the value of the budgeted expenditure was not spent. But why? Is the government wrong when drawing up the State Budget for 2019? Or did you include certain expenditure in the Budget, knowing in advance that you could not spend those funds to achieve the desired surplus? It is that, ladies and gentlemen, there is only surplus if we save money after we actually pay all the expenses. If we don't pay our expenses and save money, what there is is no surplus, it's a big drop! Therefore, as regards the year 2021, if the Government has not been mistaken in drawing up this budget and will not adopt a policy of severe captivity, then have the courage to accept the reduction in the percentage of expenditure subject to captivating and still exempt from captives, for example medical expenses with the disabled of the Armed Forces, as well as independent regulatory entities. Otherwise, Mr Minister, or rather, Mr Secretary of State, what is it worth budgeting if you know that you are not going to spend next? It's our future! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u99	We move on to the proposal for an addendum to Article 15. o -A— Payments to suppliers. This is proposal 1159 - C of the PSD. Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira, from the PSD, has the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u100	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members, if the State was a good person, would not take more than 90 days to pay their suppliers, should not, in this context, give them more than 600 million euros and would not create additional cash difficulties, which often force them to be indebted to the bank. If he were a good person, the state would pay in time and time. That is what we propose: that the State pay in time and time, that the State pay not more than 30 days and that this obligation be extensible to the debts already incurred. Mrs. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, paying time and time does not cost one cent to the state and it is surely a very important contribution to a healthy economy, which we all want. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u101	Let's move on to article 16. o — Supply of permanent needs of public services and combating precariousness. I begin by giving the floor to Mr Luís Testa of the PS. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u102	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, today we live times that can only be compared to the times of the most violent crises we have already experienced. But, if there have been other crises, we can, or rather, withdraw the example of the embezzled responses which, in addition to bringing violent penalties, pushed public workers towards the end of the trenches with wage cuts, career freezes and a very strong decrease in their income. In contrast to these revenues, in these difficult times, the governments of the Socialist Party have made a huge effort to restore the income of these workers and to prioritize, in successive State budgets, the increase in wage mass.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u103	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u104	In the budget proposal under consideration we cannot make clear the increase of EUR 750 million vis-à-vis the 2020 budget, which corresponds to a clear political position of not freezing careers, of not delaying progress, of not suspending people's lives. This budget must respond to the greatest economic and social crisis known and, as a result, the significant increase in funds for the Public Administration must be properly valued. This fiscal strengthening for public administration is also evidence that, at this time, public administration and, above all, public workers are even more important. In addition to the real increase in funds for the Public Administration, a set of other standards with a clear reflection on improving the performance of the public sector is included. The rejuvenation of public institutions is one of the priorities of this Budget. In order to ensure the rejuvenation of public administration, the policy will be to attract new workers and retain existing workers, enabling the innovation of organizational management and working methods. In 2021, the rejuvenation of the Public Administration frameworks will be achieved using three instruments: the application of the rule of at least one entry per exit; the placement of the selected workers in the first centralised recruitment process; and the internship programme of the central and local administration. As part of the first centralised recruitment process, the first 800 candidates were already selected and the subsequent procedure was launched, which will allow a grant of at least 1000 senior technicians for the Public Administration. In 2021, paid internship programmes will be launched in central and local administration for young people with higher qualifications who are unemployed or seeking the first job. We have as our objective that young people who finish their internship can benefit from an increase in the score in future recruitment procedure, promoting their integration into the frameworks of Public Administration, attracting young talent and avoiding precariousness. On the other hand, speed in contracting or replacing and strengthening in strategic areas are two essential aspects for preparing the Public Administration to respond to new challenges efficiently, creating critical mass capable of generating value and improving the quality of public services provided to citizens. As regards the increase in the number of public administration staff, according to the last statistical summary of public employment, employment in the public administration sector stood at 705 212 jobs in the second quarter of 2020, with an increase of 2, 2 % compared to the same quarter and 0, 2 % compared to the previous quarter. These numbers reflect the gradual and significant investment that has been made in strengthening the Public Administration. It is to highlight the reinforcement of 15 014 workers in terms of counterparts, which must continue in the coming years. In April 2020, the average monthly base remuneration of full-time workers in the public administration sector stood at around €1532, reflecting a homologous variation of more than 3 %. I also leave a last word for a programme that will still have an impact on the State budget for 2021, the PREVPAP ( Programme for the Extraordinary Regularization of Pre-Career Links in Public Administration ), responsible for covering the greatest of the embarrassments in the labour relationship in public entities. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in order to decide on our future, there are two circumstances that we cannot ignore: the first is the road from 2015 until today and the second is the same days today, those we are living. I end by thanking the workers of all public administrations for their commitment, strength and courage to continue to do what needs to be done together. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u105	To speak on the same article, Mrs Diana Ferreira of the PCP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u106	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, to the applause and praise of the employees of the Public Administration must be an effective assessment of their work and, of course, the fulfilment of their rights. Recovering points for progression, accounting for all the time of service and combating precariousness in Public Administration is what the CFP proposes. With various changes in careers, integrations and transitions and with the change in the remuneration base of the TRU (single remuneration table), workers lost points, an unfair situation that called into question acquired rights. The points of the employees of the Public Administration shall not disappear administratively. These workers did not progress, were integrated or repositioned in the Public Administration. It is essential to ensure that the points removed to all workers are returned and counted for future progress, as it is necessary that all the time of service worked in careers, positions or categories integrated into special bodies—teachers, educators, military, personnel, personnel of the forces and security services, justice and health, among others — counts for the purpose of progress. More than six years and a half of the time of service provided and it is urgent to correct this injustice, for which the CFP also presented a proposal. It is also urgent to eradicate precariousness in the Public Administration, to conclude PREVPAP quickly, to integrate all workers who respond to permanent needs — either those who have not submitted a request under PREVPAP, those who have obtained a negative opinion or those who have been contracted with a precarious link during and after the implementation of PREVPAP — and to ensure that there is no use of any file that means precarious links in the Public Administration. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u107	We have moved on to the proposal for an addendum to Article 16. o -A— Recovery of all time of service provided by workers integrated in special careers of the Public Administration. Mrs Mariana Silva, from the ENP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u108	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the government, in a very unfair and unacceptable manner, intended to spend a sponge over more than six years of service time effectively provided by workers in special public service careers, not accounting for this period of work for career progression and making part of the career freeze imposed on professionals between 2011 and 2017 in a permanent cut. The Greens continue to consider that it is of the most fundamental justice that is recovered all the time of service provided for career progression. Promises did not fail. It's too long to wait. We have voted on this too many times. We have seen too many games with the lives and rights of these workers here.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u109	We turn to Article 17. o — Transfer of services to the interior. Mr José Cancela Moura, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u110	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members, on the establishment of public services in the interior, the government has few ideas and therefore sometimes makes their proposals from others. Above all, the article on the transfer of services is the proposal for an amendment submitted by the PSD and that the PS and the united left have plummeted last year, with the exception of two details, or rather a « more» and an adverb in this way: in 2021 they do not install services, they only "identify services", and they do not transfer services, only « preferentially ». It's kind of an intention to legislate without wanting to do anything.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u111	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u112	This is the genetic brand of the Socialist Party: always promise, fulfill when necessary.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u113	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u114	In 2018, it was the GNR Training Centre ( Republican National Guard ), in Portalegre. He went to see it and so far nothing! In 2017, it was the Infarmed who went to the Port, travel five times promised and five times denied, because the Prime Minister himself revoked his own word. The government doesn't decide, announce! The government doesn't, promise! The government wants to get out of focus, but just a little bit! The PS now has an opportunity for at least one compromise principle. I know that it is difficult for those who, as it is said in my land, « only see the cisco in the eyes of others », but here is the challenge: to accompany the PSD in the decentralization of the Supreme Administrative Court and the Constitutional Court for Coimbra. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u115	We move on to the proposal for an addendum to Article 17. o -A — Support for the relocation of teachers. Mrs Mariana Silva, from the ENP, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u116	Mr President, there have been many praises to the tireless work of the teachers, but the profession of teacher has been so devalued that today we have come to a situation of scarce teachers. It is necessary to make the career as an attractive teacher for young people. However, these professionals are placed away from their homes, they are forced to travel many kilometres daily, without a public transport network that meets these travel needs and others are even forced to rent housing. All of this involves quite significant costs and teachers do not have any kind of wage valuation because of the fact, and they often have to pay to work. The Greens therefore propose, once again, and at a time when it is necessary to value the career of teachers, that the Government, together with the representative structures of teachers, should provide aid for the relocation of teachers.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u117	We enter Article 21. o — Penosity and insanity supplement. First of all, I give the floor to Mr Diana Ferreira of the CFP. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u118	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, for more than 20 years, employees of the Public Administration have been awaiting the allocation of the supplement of penosity, insanity and risk and it is important not to confuse this right with the exceptional benefit of risk in the situation of the exception of COVID-19. They are different rights and they are different remunerations. It is unacceptable that for more than 20 years this right has not been guaranteed to employees of the Public Administration, which is not a privilege, is a right of those who work every day under risk conditions, under harsh and unhealthy conditions and whose realization cannot be postponed. It is time to act and recognize all employees of the Public Administration, that every day, in the performance of their duties, are subject to these harsh, unhealthy and risky conditions, the due pay supplement. A remuneration supplement proposed by the CFP to go up to 25 % of its salary, but we also propose additional compensation to these workers, particularly in the context of schedules, holidays and conditions of retirement. It is urgent to recognize this right to employees of the Public Administration, which, every day, being on the front line—not only today, but at this time, but forever—to guarantee the fundamental rights of all of us, must have this supplement by penosity, insanity and risk, not confused here, nor remuneration, nor these rights: these are two different rights, this and the exceptional subsidy within the framework of the support and risk to COVID-19. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u119	With regard to the same article, Mr Fernando Paulo of the PS now speaks.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u120	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Government and the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group present in this proposal for a State Budget, with responsibility and sustainability, the realization of penosity, risk and health subsidies, for the general careers of operational assistant in areas of urban hygiene, waste collection, sanitation and treatment of waste water and cemeterial services. They are public workers of general careers, whose functions present characteristics of special risks and obvious conditions of health, which no one denies, and public workers who, since the beginning of the pandemic, have never stopped, providing essential services for the community. Since 1989 this possibility has existed in the law and it is with the Socialist Party that it will be realized with, I repeat, sustainability and responsibility. We live difficult times from the point of view of the health and social conditions of the population and also from the economic and financial point of view, therefore, the proposal of the PS ensures the conditions and limits that can be borne by the country, contrary to the proposals on the right to the left, and for all tastes, which forget the financial possibilities of the national and autarchic budgets, an essential condition for these subsidies to be maintained over time, and mix general careers with special careers, whose regime includes, by nature, own characteristics. Once again, the PS presents itself alongside the workers and public workers in particular, ensuring the circumstances of improving their living condition, valuing their careers and recognizing the special effort of those and those who operate in situations of particular risk and insanity, within the general careers of operational assistants. It is therefore essential to carry out the risk, penosity and insanity allowance in accordance with the terms proposed by the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, which is the case for the State and the Country. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u121	We turn to Article 28. o — Strengthening the fight against corruption, fraud and economic and financial crime. I give the floor to Mrs Cláudia Santos of the PS. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u122	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the government, it is true that in order to combat corruption, it takes means to investigate it and means to punish it. We need more means and we need a strategy that makes sense to them. The Government has already presented its strategy and the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group has put forward proposals to strengthen the means of combating corruption. I would like to highlight our proposal aimed at strengthening the judicial police with the hiring of 105 new inspectors for criminal investigation and scientific police. It was also through PS initiatives that over time essential steps have been taken for the investigation of corruption, for example by allowing access to bank data and tax data of suspects to be allowed in 2002. Later, it was the so-called "amendment Neto Brandão" which facilitated access to bank data and was on the basis of more than 15 000 requests for research in just three years. The PSD and CDS were the only ones who did not vote in your favor. We look at this very serious phenomenon with seriousness and rigour, but unfortunately we cannot conclude the same on all the proposals and the most obvious example of populism in this budget debate is perhaps in the proposals of the Arrival, precisely in the matter of corruption. Let us look at just two examples of this lack of populist rigour, which undermines the fight against corruption: in Proposition 514 - C, the arrival proposes an increase in the number of TAF ( Administrative Court and Prosecutor ) judges for greater speed in the decision of corruption proceedings. But why TAF magistrates? Corruption is a crime and necessarily judged by criminal courts. What would the Administrative and Tax Courts have to do with this, you wonder? [[Protests by Mr André Ventura.]] In Proposal 509 - C, the Commission proposes to invest itself in legal deepening to criminalize illicit enrichment. But legal deepening does not have to cost any more money. Just study and present a bill. The criminalization of illicit enrichment is not part of this government programme, but if Mr Ventura thinks it is necessary to study the matter, why does he not study it and present a bill in this Parliament? [[P.S.'s applause.]] Perhaps proposals like these two sound good to those who don't want to spend more than 30 seconds thinking about it. But we trust more than he does in the ability to reflect the Portuguese. And, too, we will not give in to messianic populism, which is another virus — a virus for democracy — that we need to avoid becoming a pandemic. For the health of our democracy! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u123	Let's move on to Article 36. o — Information and communication technologies in the government area of internal administration. Mr Ana Mesquita of the PCP has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u124	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the CFP will talk at this point about its proposals for public school, in particular what needs to be done to invest in public school and to value its workers, who are even more fundamental and indispensable in the epidemiological context we live in. what we need, and what the CFP proposes, is more workers with more rights in public school: teachers, specialist technicians and employees. It is urgent to strengthen 5000 new officials, assistants and administrative officials, which the CFP proposes to be contracted with permanent links, instead of the recurrent precarious links, combating the lack of teachers, educators and technicians, and to dignifying the working conditions of the contractors. It is urgent to strengthen hourly credits, providing for schools to be able to complete incomplete hours, ensuring a complement of accommodation and travel to contractors whose school of supply is more than 50 km away from home, ensuring their entry into career. It's necessary, ladies and gentlemen. Members, once again end the precariousness in schools, linking in 2021 teachers with 10 or more years of service and in 2022 those who have five or more years of service, provided that they have completed 365 working days in the last four years — proposals presented by the CFP and for which they will continue to battle. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u125	We are now entering Article 37. o — Recruitment of workers in public higher education institutions. Mr Ana Mesquita of the PCP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u126	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the CFP brings to the discussion several proposals in higher education and science, to combat precariousness and ensure compliance with the rights of teachers and researchers. Therefore, we say first of all that you only carry out scholarships in school social action! In science, work must have a contract, so we propose the conversion of scholarships into employment contracts and, at the time the last scholarship becomes a contract, the revocation of the Statute of the Research Fellowship. But, while this is not completed, it is necessary to guarantee decent conditions for all those who work with a scholarship contract, ensuring the replacement of the subsidies to the pockets, making the extraordinary update of the scholarships and their components. However, it is also necessary to ensure that higher education institutions — returning to the article on this subject — do not have obstacles to the hiring of workers and that there is an end to the obstacle that exists on the previous opinion, when it comes to contracts up to 5 %, which is what we consider to be, in relation to the previous year. It is also necessary to ensure, and this is one of the last proposals that the CFP, here today, refers to the guarantee of equality under the conditions for changing the remuneration of public higher education teachers. These are important proposals to value workers and higher education and science. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u127	Let us turn to the proposal for an addendum to Article 37. o -A - Creation of a permanent framework of squares in the Army and Air Force. Mr. Carlos Eduardo Reis of the PSD has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u128	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in this pandemic the Armed Forces were present in the disinfection of homes, schools, state buildings, training, the transport of patients and equipment to the National Health Service, in the surveillance of the beaches to normalize the bathing season. Therefore, in addition to the missions they usually perform, they were everywhere, doubling their efforts and affecting the effects. However, there is a place where we do not find the Armed Forces: it is in this State Budget. We have lower financial and zero future funding for structural problems and the survival of national defence, as we know it. The Armed Forces have been debating for many years with recruitment and retention problems. The military escape is huge. To get an idea, from 2014 to 2018, they came out of permanent or contracted frameworks of about 15 000 soldiers. We were therefore able to find in this State budget the creation of the permanent framework for the military and the Air Force squares. Our priority in valuing the effectiveness of national defence cannot only be gender equality. We may even fall into ridicule, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we must move towards a future in which there is no kind to defend. The creation of the permanent square framework does not solve the problem as a whole, but it is a solution for all those who want to serve their country in the military condition, without being forced, for financial and stability reasons, to leave for the ranks of the security forces. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about a measure with zero budgetary impact, immediately and in the next six to seven years, that impact which, when it arrives, can be considered good investment. If, last year, on our proposal, we were able to get everyone to receive the national minimum wage during the recruitment, we now want to give these men and women a new career horizon. A country that does not value its Armed Forces is a country that does not respect its history, and is, above all, a country that does not prepare the future. We can't keep asking for more. The choice is simple. To vote on this proposal is to vote on the future of the Armed Forces. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u129	To intervene on the proposal for an addendum to Article 39. The autonomy of the institutions of the National Health Service for the hiring of professionals, Mr. Moisés Ferreira, of the Block de Left, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u130	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the epidemiological situation in the country is very serious and worrying. For a serious and worrisome situation, strong and capable responses are required. As the Left Block has said, maximum crises do not respond with minimum proposals, as the Government's Government's proposed budget tries to do. Since April this year that the Left Block has proposed that the four-month precarious contracts with the National Health Service pass into permanent effective contracts. Since April, we have said that it is necessary to give autonomy to the institutions of the National Health Service so that they can contract according to their needs, without waiting for authorizations that often never come, without having to wait weeks, months, in order to be able to hire the people they need. But the government didn't do that. In months of pandemic, he didn't do any of this. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in particular, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group, it is not with precariousness that we will strengthen the National Health Service!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u131	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u132	Nor is it precarious that we will respond to the pandemic, especially in the so-called « health front ». It is not with four-month contracts, it is not with redundancies during the pandemic, as it is happening now in institutions of the National Health Service, it is not giving no authorizations for hiring and it is not giving the institutions autonomy to make these contracts. In Braga, dozens of nurses have received a letter saying they will be fired! The four-month contract ended and they are not allowed to hire them permanently. At the Western Lisbon Hospital Centre, yesterday, operational assistants were fired! The four-month contract ended and they went to the street in the middle of the pandemic. In Covilhã, there are nurses who go in the third, in the fourth contract with the hospital — sometimes they are replacement contracts, sometimes they are four-month contracts — and they are not in the picture! They were not hired permanently! Why? Oh, my God! We were told yesterday that groups of health centres are waiting for months for an authorization to hire retired doctors. Why? Oh, my God! Why does the PS not want autonomy in institutions? Why does the PS prefer precariousness to permanent hiring? It doesn't make sense. This does not reinforce the National Health Service. This weakens the National Health Service. What strengthens the National Health Service is what we propose: autonomy for hiring and permanent contraction of professionals for the SNS. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u133	For an intervention, Mr. Secretary of State of the Budget, Cláudia Joaquim.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u134	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I would like to highlight the proposal, which is contained in the proposal for a law for the State Budget, for the net reinforcement of 4200 professionals in the National Health Service, stressing that this is certainly not the only one. In addition, in the last Councils of Ministers, a number of diplomas have been approved which provide for the never-ending and binding hiring of many professionals for the National Health Service, as well as the proposal for the timing of the continuity of professional reinforcement in the National Health Service, which has been very relevant in liquid terms. I would really like to highlight this issue. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u135	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u136	Mr. Moisés Ferreira, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u137	Mr President, as I said, it is to ask the Secretary of State a question.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u138	I didn't know what I was talking about. I knew it now. Thank you very much. Mr. Moisés Ferreira, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u139	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Madam Secretary of State, I have a letter sent to an operational assistant who was fired yesterday from the Western Lisbon Hospital Centre. He was dismissed because he had completed the four-month contract, which was not renewed, and the institution was not allowed to hire him permanently. The pandemic is over, Secretary of State? Oh, my God! Do not months of needs and requirements be provided for the National Health Service? The question is this: why are these letters being sent to professionals who are currently being fired from the National Health Service? The North is experiencing a dramatic situation, from the point of view of the incidence of COVID-19. Why were letters sent to more than 80 nurses from Braga Hospital, saying that their four-month contract ended, that there was no authorization for their permanent hiring and that they were therefore going to the eye of the street? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u140	To reply, Mr. Secretary of State for Health, Diogo Serras Lopes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u141	Good day to all. Mr. Moisés Ferreira, this news has come out. In fact, this letter you have referred to will certainly not be the first situation. The institutions of the National Health Service have answered these various questions. What we know is that there is an effective reinforcement of more than 6000 professionals hired during this year and that the Decree-Law No 89/ 2020 has already been approved at the Council of Ministers, which allows for the transition of these contracts to open-ended contracts. That's the reinforcement you want to make. This is what was agreed in the State budget for 2020 and what is proposed in the State budget for 2021. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u142	Mr Secretary of State, allow me to tell you that 'good morning to all' is too general and I hope you do not repeat it. It won't repeat, of course. We moved on to Article 40. o — Strengthening the number of vacancies for the establishment of doctors in areas lacking medical workers. Mrs Hortense Martins of the PS has the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u143	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall begin my speech precisely with this question of autonomy and reaffirm that the Socialist Party has always defended its reinforcement. But we must also look at — I have had this debate with Mr Moisés Ferreira — the fact that it is necessary, at certain times and in certain circumstances, to have the proper balance between that autonomy and the territorial needs of the country. I want to make this need clear. With this same article, which refers to the strengthening of the number of vacancies for the establishment of doctors in areas lacking medical workers, we need to deepen this mechanism so that these areas and these regions also have the health professionals they need. I would like to tell you that, according to our information at Braga Hospital, the 52 professionals who received these letters, Mr. Moses Ferreira, have already been informed that they will be hired. I'll give you this good news. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I would also like to point out that, for us, this State Budget is a Budget to protect the health of Portuguese people. We all have the responsibility to approve, in order to enable the implementation of the measures that will protect the Portuguese, and the Portuguese will not forget that! This proposal for a State Budget, in order to protect people in a context of great uncertainty, has, for health, EUR 12 100 million in continuous reinforcement, Budget after Budget. We do not forget that, last year, there were two Budgets, including one Supplementary Budget. [[Meanwhile, PSD deputy Afonso Oliveira shook his head in a negative signal.]] You are not shaking your head, Mr. PSD, because you know perfectly well that this is a total reversal of policies in the face of what had happened with the right governments, where it was always cutting, cutting and cutting. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The efforts, will and determination of both the Government and the PS bank are clear to strengthen the health budget, not only in this Budget, but also in the PS proposals, which, in some matters, also tend to do so at the level of mental health, the appreciation of professionals and the attempt to schedule the hiring of the required professionals, which have already been mentioned, so that in each semester they are more than 2100. I would also like, if I may, to say that we are currently facing a pandemic crisis that is reaching everyone, not only Portugal. We cannot only have speeches of intentions and speeches that do not have the proper weight in relation to what is happening in the world. We have to approve this Budget, for the prevention of seasonal influenza, in parallel with the fight against COVID-19. The government strengthened the vaccine stocks and there was the campaign for early vaccination, the proximity of these means, which had never been done. There was the question of the preparation of hospitals; the integration of 4380 health professionals into the SNS, the strategy of strengthening integrated continuous care, the provision of more fans, the increase in the number of tests in all sectors, both social and private, and the public, of course. We were able to have another 10 laboratories to participate in this effort and today we are one of the most testing countries. There was the reinforcement of the SNS24 line, the psychological counselling line, the deaf line and the agility of procedures, even for the use of the COVID-19 tests. We cannot forget the maintenance of the non-COVID response, the strengthening strategy to respond to primary health care in the various aspects and innovative means, such as non-presence care, home care and communication reinforcement, which we know is necessary in this pandemic. I conclude by saying the following: it is not worth these speeches about 'achism' at one time and then at the other time we will be saying that, after all, we are on a path that is not the answer to the Portuguese. We are all responsible for this answer and that is what I want to make very clear. This budget will have to be approved in order to give this effective response to Portuguese health. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u144	To intervene on the proposal for an addendum to Article 42. the -A— Creation of the special career of psychologist in the SNS, Mrs Bebiana Cunha, of the PAN, has the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u145	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, much has been said about the valorization of health professionals and much will be said — let us hope so — during this debate in the field. But the real appreciation, the real dignity of these professionals goes beyond the fact that there is a commitment in the review of the injustices that exist in the pay tables. Even if this is a legislative commitment, it is a compromise that must be initiated in 2021. But it is also, of course, due to the creation of new careers for those health professionals, who have long been waiting for it, and inevitably through the revision of an injustice that has existed since 2008. I refer to health assistant technicians, professionals who saw their career withdrawn in 2008 and were considered operational assistants. These professionals perform the most basic and elementary health care, support other professionals in their tasks and do so with maximum zeal, representing 20% of our professionals at the National Health Service. This injustice must begin to be rectified in 2021, even if the process takes place at the level of the legislature. In fact, it is something that is strange to be a profession that is recognized in the national catalogue of professions and a profession for which we have vocational training, as an auxiliary health technician at the level of secondary education, and for recognition, validation and certification of competences. It is something that needs to be resolved, and this path begins, without any doubt, in 2021.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u146	We move on to the proposal submitted by the ENP of Article 45. o-B — Review and regulation of the special career of nature vigilante. Mrs Mariana Silva, from the ENP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u147	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, since the approval of Law No 12 -A / 2008 of 27 February, that the Portuguese Association of Guards and Vigilants of Nature demands, together with the various governments, the review of the special nature watch career. The entry into force of Law No 12 -A / 2008 has led to the merger of public administration careers around three general careers, has changed the binding regime of workers and has determined the deadlines for the integration of specific careers into the new regime. These deadlines have already been largely exceeded, not knowing about the fate to give to all the remaining careers in the process. Among the numerous unintegrated careers in the general regime is that of nature, which currently presents a distribution of workers by various services of the Ministry of Environment and Climate Action. In the autonomous regions, nature watchers are under the reach of the Regional Secretariats of the Environment and their career models follow existing standards in continental Portugal. Therefore, it is important to ensure the creation of a special career that integrates professionals in the defence and protection of natural resources and biodiversity, classified natural heritage and those implementing international obligations in these areas. That is what the Greens here propose, so that the promises of love of the environment and nature come into practice.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u148	We now turn to Article 46. o — Strengthening training to combat domestic violence. Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u149	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members, in this first intervention in the field of expertise, it may be worth taking into account the views of the Liberal Initiative and the proposals we have put forward in the field of expertise. These proposals basically aim to transform a State budget which — we have already said several times — delays and postpones Portugal into a State budget that can accelerate the economy and stimulate the Portuguese to get out of this crisis faster and stronger and also to reduce the huge bill that the extreme left is presenting to the PS, which seems willing to pay it. For Article 46. the, which concerns the implementation of the annual training plan on domestic violence, is not enough training in domestic violence, it must function. We therefore propose that there should be a six-monthly evaluation by the Committee on Citizenship and Gender Equality, with recommendations that may improve the effectiveness of the training given. In addition, we propose that the multidisciplinary training of judges in matters of domestic violence, as well as victimology, psychology or sexual violence be strengthened, because it is the lack of training and ignorance of many judges who generate incomprehensible sentences and opinions and a very high rate of suspended penalties in this type of crime. in a related matter, we reintroduced a mysteriously missing article from last year's State Budget, which concerned strengthening human resources to combat trafficking in human beings and also the strengthening of material resources in this area. People, especially the most vulnerable, not only suffer from the COVID, continue to suffer from other issues and the Liberal Initiative will not forget the most vulnerable. I hope that Parliament will not either.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u150	We move on to the proposal submitted by the CH of Article 47. -A— Insularity allowance for security forces elements in the Autonomous Regions. Mr. André Ventura, from arrive, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u151	Mr President, this is about correcting a historical inequality and injustice that we have in the security forces and also about judicial officials working in the Autonomous Regions of the Azores and Madeira. This is a situation of real injustice which must be able to fight. This subsidy is not only an element of the most elementary nature these forces should have, in order to correct the very difficult situations in which they live, as was also a historic promise of the Socialist Party. Let us now hope that it can be resolved. This also includes judicial officials. Mrs Cláudia Santos, said here that the proposal of the arrival in administrative and fiscal matters is typical of unlettered auditories and audits that believe in messianism in justice. Mrs. Member, it is on page 17 of the manual against the corruption of the Union of Magistrates of the Public Prosecutor's Office! I am very sorry to call this to all the magistrates of the Public Prosecutor's Office. I shall read to you, so that you can study it at home: « It is still, in our perspective, essential to increase the number of judges in the Administrative and Tax Tribunals that pay attention to the impact the constraints in these Tribunals have on the economy and justice with potential increase in the phenomenon of corruption ». I am very sorry, Madam Member, that you have not read this and that you have preferred to attack the Arrival at a stage like this, showing well the fear that it has to grow, because you know what is going to happen.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u152	We move on to the proposal submitted by the PSD of Article 47. o -A — Obligation to guarantee students of higher education of health courses personal protective equipment. Mrs Margarida Balsairo Lopes, PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u153	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: What is happening in higher education with the students of the health courses is absolutely unacceptable. They are asking that these students have to bear the cost of acquiring personal protective equipment so that they can carry out their internships, that is, without these equipment they cannot perform the internships and without the internships they cannot complete their courses. We are talking about the cost of masks, visors, gloves, coats, that is, of costs that can at least reach the value of 150 € per month. Forceing these students to support these equipment to continue studying in higher education is a shame. The Ministry acknowledged this injustice, but did not strictly do anything to solve it. You didn't do the Ministry, but you did the PSD with the proposal you made. It is now up to the Ministry to ensure this equipment and Parliament to correct this injustice so that no student will be in higher education because he has no money to support these equipment. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u154	Article 59 is hereby followed. o — Extraordinary updating of pensions. Mr João Pinho de Almeida, from the CDS-PP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u155	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, this proposal from the CDS is intended to bring justice to pensioners of minimum pension, social pension and rural pension. Once again, in the bill, the government negatively discriminates against the poorest pensioners of the poorest. Those with lower pensions, minimum pensions, social pensions and rural pensions have a lower pension update than the other pensioners. Everyone will ask: "Why? Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” This is because the Socialist Party believes that it should punish this group of pensioners for having their pensions updated during the PSD/CDS-PP government, i.e. at a time when all pensions were frozen, when the situation was extremely difficult, the PSD/CDS-PP government found that the poorest pensioners of the poorest still deserved to update their pensions. Now, the Socialist Party's government has arrived and has reversed this positive discrimination that we have done. We propose something very simple: not only that, for the year 2021, pensioners' pensions for minimum pensions, rural pensions and social pensions have the same update as the other pensioners, but also that these pensioners should be given what has been taken over the past four years. To understand the ridiculous position of the Socialist Party, we are talking, for the minimum pension, of 0, 41 €, for the rural pension, of 1, 61 €, and for the social pension, of 3, 99 €. The question is one: the CDS proposal makes it possible to end this injustice. Will the government and those who support it continue to deny the poorest pensioners of the poorest 0, 41 €, 1, 61 € or 3, 99 €? Here we will see — and much — what social sensitivity this budget will be voted on.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u156	To reply, Mr. Secretary of State for Social Security, Gabriel Bastos.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u157	I didn't ask anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u158	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, replying to Mr. João Piinho de Almeida, I explain to you that as we have already had the opportunity to discuss at a meeting of the Committee on Labour and Social Security with the Committee on Budgets and Finance, and as it was also transmitted to you by the Minister of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security, that, in our proposal of extraordinary increase to 2021, all pensioners covered will have an increase of 10 € from January onwards. Mr President, in order to reiterate the information we have already given you, I would like to explain that this increase will allow these pensioners the minimum pensions of the general social security scheme, the social pension and the rural pension to be valued above that which would result from the application in the time of the pension updating law. Mr President, I would also like to draw attention to something that seems absolutely essential to me. The PSD Government / CDS-PP, between 2011 and 2015, made discretionary updates of these pensions, forgetting three minimum pension levels of the general scheme and only updated the minimum pension on the first step of the general social security regime. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u159	Mr. João Pinho de Almeida has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u160	Mr President, I would like to take this opportunity to tell Mr. Secretary of State, starting with the final part of his speech which is true when he says that the PSD/CDS-PP government has made a discretionary update. In the time of the Socialist Party that preceded the PSD Government / CDS-PP there was no discretionary, the pensions were all frozen. You have frozen all pensions, we have made a discretionary update! How we had to manage the bankruptcy that you left us choosing to update the pensions of those who had the least and the lowest pensions of all. That is social sensitivity, Secretary of State! The fact that there is no discrimination and the freezing of all pensions is not to realize that the poorest of the poorest, among pensioners, have, even in a difficult situation, to benefit. I would also like to say the following: you cannot say that the State budget, from January onwards, will also update all pensions, because the proposal you presented does not do so. This will only happen if they are approved or the CDS proposal or those of other parties that propose the same as the CDS. And I'll tell you why that happens. This is not because you have social sensibilities and have perceived the injustice they were doing to the poorest pensioners of the poorest; that is because they need the vote on the CFP and because that was one of the demands of the CFP. Therefore, the day will come when the Government of the Socialist Party will be more concerned about the money it does not update in the pensions of the poorest than with the votes it needs to approve a Budget.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u161	Under the same article, Mr. Secretary of State of the Budget, Cláudia Joaquim.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u162	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: The big problem is that sometimes what is said is not what happened. The extraordinary update of pensions has taken place since 2017, but in conjunction between the Socialist Party, the Government and the Portuguese Communist Party with the aim: to update the pensions of all pensioners who the PSD and the CDS, for four years in a row, decided not to update. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And it wasn't because I was in the initial memo with the troika, it was a later decision. I invite you to consult the initial memorandum until the decision that was taken was discretionary. Yes, there was a pension updating law that was suspended and that you started to update the pension of a small part of pensioners who have lower pensions, but have forgotten others. More than 30 000 pensioners have been forgotten who even had a lower pension than a social pension. This is also very easy to recover. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Just as they have forgotten all pensioners with minimum pensions who have contributed to social security between 15 and more years. They only updated the pensioners who had less than 15 years of social security contributions! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Therefore, if there is a fair criterion to update pensions of those who have a minimum pension and discounted 40 years for social security, then I don't know what justice will be to decide which pensions are updated. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But I can guarantee you the following: all pensioners with total pensions less than 1, 5 IAS have, since 2017, a accumulated updated pension ranging from a total of 6 € to 10 € per year, i.e. 50 € so far, for your entire life. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u163	Still within the framework of Article 59. Mr João Pinho de Almeida, from the CDS-PP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u164	Mr President, I do not know if you are going to speak next to the Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs—I already realized that we are going up in the Government hierarchy. That doesn't solve the underlying problem. In addition, there is a question to resolve: the updates that the Socialist Party has made have harmed pensioners of the minimum pension in 0, 41 €, pensioners of the rural pension in 1, 61 € and pensioners of the social pension in 3, 99 €. Are you going to demand these increases to the poorest pensioners of the poorest or are they available to do justice to them and not discriminate against them negatively? This is the issue which is of interest to the vote on this CDS proposal, because only the CDS proposal allows these pensioners not to be the target of the « mendicure » that the Socialist Party Government insists on doing.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u165	Still within the framework of Article 59. a, has the floor to Mrs Diana Ferreira of the PCP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u166	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is essential to value pensions, strengthen the solidarity complement for the elderly, eliminate the sustainability factor and ensure a public home network. This is exactly what the CFP proposes. It is necessary to ensure an extraordinary increase of 10 € for all pensioners and pensioners from January. The insistence and intervention of the CFP in recent years has ensured four consecutive extraordinary increases that have benefited more than 2 million pensioners and pensioners. The extraordinary increase in pensions, in addition to the size of social justice for pensioners and pensioners, is of particular importance in a year when pensions and reforms will not be updated through the automatic pension updating mechanism. It is also necessary to extend the scope of the solidarity complement for the elderly and to eliminate the consideration of children's income for their allocation — a criterion that disregards the autonomy and dignity of the elderly and, in principle, excludes thousands of elderly people from this provision. We therefore propose not only its elimination but also that the conditions for the allocation of the CSI be improved and that the payment of this benefit be guaranteed at 14 months. It is also necessary to eliminate the sustainability factor. We have never agreed to its implementation. It is necessary to revoke it once again, as the CFP proposes, and especially to eliminate this penalty for long-term unemployed and those who have reformed themselves with severe penalties, in addition to correcting other injustices for these reformers. It is necessary to ensure that miners and stoneworkers with special arrangements for access to reform do not suffer this penalty. And it is the proposal of the CFP that ensures that none of these workers will suffer with the application of the sustainability factor. It is necessary to implement a public network of homes, as it is a strongly highlighted need at the moment. To meet the needs of users, the CFP proposes the creation of 20 000 vacancies for social security, with a national distribution proportional to waiting lists, mobilizing social security equipment to other public equipment, to ensure the response to this need. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u167	We shall proceed to the proposal of Article 62. o-C — Special Social Support Programme for the Third Island. Mrs. Lara Martinho, from the PS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u168	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the intransigent defence of the health and safety of the Azores population, and in particular of the Third Island, has been a priority since the beginning of our mandate. Following the work carried out, we presented this amendment that allows not only to ensure water monitoring, such as strengthening the supply subsystem in the city of Praia da Vitoria and closing the water catchment holes under monitoring. It is a decisive step in this process and we hope to count on the favourable vote of all banks. We also hope that they will accompany us in the approval of aid for the legalization of the Santa Rita neighborhood, which supports about 100 families ; in the extension of the special social support programme for the Third Island ; in the implementation of the second phase of the construction of the San Miguel Prison Establishment ; and in the access of the University of Azores to European funds. All these proposals are relevant to the Autonomous Region of the Azores. However, I cannot fail to express strangeness at the fact that the PSD only presents a proposal for the Azores. They stayed for the announcements and the news. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u169	In fact, the exercise of political activity must correspond to a coherent attitude, so proposals announced in the Azores should be put forward in the Assembly, but it was not the case. The PSD should not forget, as Mr. Paulo Moniz recently mentioned in this plenary, that "the Azorians, when they gave him the vote, trusted him in the firm expectation that he would defend them". Abstaining from this participation was abstaining from defending the Azorians and the Azores. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u170	Let us turn to the proposal of Article 62. o-G — Public higher education institutions of autonomous regions, presented by PS. Mr Olavo Câmara has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u171	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we don't leave anyone behind! This is how we can see the amendment tabled by the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group with the aim of the universities in the autonomous regions accessing the new Community framework for European funds. We want to give the possibility of the Universities of Madeira and the Azores to be able to compete with operational programmes at national level. This did not happen in the current Community framework, since the European funds are regionalized and regional governments are responsible for their distribution and management. For example, in the Autonomous Region of Madeira, the Regional Government of the PSD, purely and simply forgot the University of Madeira and never created any specific program or allowed university access to this form of funding. This proposal by the Socialist Party is therefore precisely correcting this situation and correcting the forgetfulness of the right-wing regional government in relation to European funds for the University of Madeira. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u172	Let's move on to Article 64. o — Observatory of the Atlantic. Mr António Ventura, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u173	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, after the government announced in 2016 a set of proposals and advertised a set of announcements for the Azores, and taking into account that these same proposals have already been in the Budgets and have ceased to be, this is the moment when we must of course present a vote and a motion of censure to this Government. We cannot accept that the government will deliberately and deliberately forget what it has promised. And it doesn't have to be the Members to remember, it has to be the government to enter the budget! If you remember, when it is not about something new, it is a sign that this government no longer deserves the trust of the Azorians. Last day 24, we said this in the polls, in the Azores, i.e. that the Regional Government and the Government of the Republic do not deserve our trust! [[PSD applause.]] Now it is only missing that, in the face of this proposed forgetfulness on the continent, the Portuguese say to this government: "You do not deserve our trust! » It's said! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u174	Since « is said », the intervention is finished. Let us turn to Article 68. o — Madeira Central Hospital. Mrs Sara Madruga from Costa, PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u175	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are at a crucial moment to correct the many injustices that this Government has done with regard to Madeira. And they've been so many, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u176	I am referring to the refusal of the moratorium, the refusal of the avalanche, the illegitimate reduction of the value of two hospital units, the promised half of Madeira's hospital and now the Free Zone of Madeira. Even after the authorisation of the European Union 4 months ago — I repeat, 4 months ago! — the Government refused to extend the tax system from 1 January. With this despicable behaviour, the government brings into question more than 6000 jobs, 2300 companies and a considerable annual revenue from Madeira. The Government has also reverted to other commitments it has made for this budget, such as social mobility allowance, ferry, health expenditure, among others. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, Parliament cannot deal with these injustices and with this continuing disregard of the government for the people of Madeira. It is now in the hands of each of the Members and of each of the Members. Members make the difference, put a final point in these injustices and enable Madeira's proposals for this budget. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let us do justice: let us vote in favour of Madeira's proposals. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u177	The Bureau has registered Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, but is not currently in the Chamber. [[Pause.]] Therefore, we turn to Article 98. o — Legislative authorization under the exceptional regime applicable to local authorities and intermunicipal entities in the context of the situation of prevention, containment, mitigation and treatment of the infection of SARS-CoV-2 and the disease COVID-19. Mrs. Isura Morais, PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u178	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, today we started the debate on an essential budget for the country, discussing it now in the field of expertise. This is a Budget which, in addition to the usual objectives, should have the objective of responding to the impact of a public health crisis that is generating a huge economic and social crisis, unprecedented in the lives of all Portuguese people. It is worth remembering here all those who, unfortunately, because of the pandemic, have lost their jobs, all those who have not been able to reopen their shops, their restaurants and their businesses and all the people and institutions who, in need of help, have had it by local authorities. In health, education, culture or sport, in civil protection or in support of situations of greater deficiency, who could have done better than local and proximity power? Therefore, the PSD has not been tired of praising the action of all the autarchs, who have multiplied in solutions and have shown solidarity with the effort that is required to the country. For all this, it was disturbing that the budget proposal, with regard to measures to support and compensate for the high municipal expenditure under the pandemic, is only for a legislative authorisation, as set out in Article 98. the, without any indications of values or measures addressed to local authorities. This State budget does not bring any measures which contribute to effective and necessary support from the authorities, calling into question the capacity of intervention of the local authority. For all this, I cannot finish, Mr President, without stressing again that this budget does not respond to the needs of Portugal and the Portuguese. We sincerely hope that the proposed amendments to the PSD will reflect in this budget and that a more constructive discussion will be achieved, never losing sight of the national interest. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u179	We are now examining the proposal for a Article 98. the -A — Fund resulting from the transfer of dams presented by the PSD. Mr Adam Silva, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u180	Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, what is simple is said in a few words. I want to talk to you about justice. I would like to tell you that, in the budgetary debate, justice must also be mentioned. With proposal 1255 - C, we want justice to be done to transmountans. If the grant of six dams in the major transmountain rivers is going to take place and if this is going to be over EUR 2, EUR 2 billion, the taxes that the State will charge must also remain in the Tres-os-Montes. That's what we're defending. That's justice! We also defend that, with these values, which we hope will be more than EUR 100 million, if it constitutes a fund to support the transmountans, managed by the transmountans, in various economic, social, environmental and cultural areas. This is not a privilege; this is pure and simple justice! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u181	Let us turn to a proposal for Article 99. o -A — Amendments to the Labour Code, submitted by BE. Mr. José Soeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u182	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members, Eurest announced this month the dismissal of 122 workers after resorting to simplified layoff and at the same time recruiting temporary workers who are not covered by any protection under economic support. Companies such as Eurest may receive support for job maintenance and at the same time discard precarious workers. Sumol + Compal announced last week the dismissal of 80 workers, after having made use of the layoff and received thousands of euros in public support for job maintenance. Years and years of profits and the company could not use a little of what it had accumulated in the past to endure this difficult moment without charging the losses to the workers and putting about 80 families in a state of distress. The Left Block proposal is simple and sensible: businesses must be given full support for the maintenance of employment, requiring genuine counterparties of job maintenance, including precarious workers, that the government, incomprehensiblely, insists on leaving out of any protection. Companies should be given support, calling them responsibility and preventing public support for the recovery of the economy, which must, after all, become a public mechanism for financing private redundancies. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u183	Let us turn to the proposed Article 99. o -A- Professional integration of homeless people presented by the NAP. Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u184	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the homeless population is a highly fragile population. in this State budget for 2021, whose discussion at the centre of expertise we have now begun, it is essential to give structural responses to matters that combat, in a more in-depth and cross-sectional manner to different ministries, the problem of extreme poverty and vulnerability in which these people find themselves. On a proposal from the NAP, this Budget responds to one of the basic rights of any human being, in general, that is, the right to a house, without neglecting the dimension of the fight against poverty and social exclusion, desired by the National Strategy for the Integration of People in a Hostless Situation. However, it is necessary to go further and deepen this matter. If it is true that by the end of the year we will be able to conclude protocols that have been planned in the State Budget for 2020, to strengthen the Housing First Project, that is, A First House, a fundamental step for the protection of the most vulnerable, it is also essential to bet on their professional integration. It is in this sense that these answers need to be structured and interconnected so that there is also a bet in their socio-economic formation and integration. We cannot fail to give a note on the other proposals submitted, such as the quality of food distributed to people in a homeless situation: that we cannot lose sight of who should be the starting point and priority, which is undoubtedly the right to access to housing, under the penalty of not leaving a merely caretaker perspective that reaches and has marked these policies. There is, in fact, a question here: if food is transversal to the whole population and healthy food is, in fact, a concern for all of us, housing and poverty are not transversal to all people. in this sense, the path made so far has been thanks to the work of associations, but we must go further, ensuring not only the support of associations, which are on the ground, but also the turn of public policies in the fight against poverty.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u185	Let us turn to the proposed Article 99. o-B — Amendment to the Labour Code submitted by BE. Mrs Isabel Pires has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u186	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the size of the crisis we are going through would necessarily require a budget with a stronger dimension of response in several areas. One of the areas where this need is absolutely clear is in the area of work. The law of work is what governs us, as a country, in respect or disrespect for those who work. And it is not by chance that it has always been in what various right-wing governments, but also the PS, have moved in times of crisis in supposedly "structural reforms". And what was the meaning of that? It was the crushing of legislation that protected those who worked and encouraged collective bargaining. in this context, there are two proposals of the most basic common sense that no one in the country, no worker, understands that they are rejected, not so far, the government has been able, over several weeks of discussion of the Budget, to present a single justification for this. Firstly, we have a proposal for a replacement of the most favourable treatment principle. That is, basically, no worker can have less rights than those who are in the law of work. And so many times this has happened over the years. This proposal is so fair and so sensible that the rejection of the Government and the PS is not understood in accepting it. Secondly, we propose to end the unilateral expiry of collective bargaining. Here, then, the misunderstanding of thousands of workers is even greater, because in the previous legislature there was a moratorium on this regime, at this time the government has moved forward with another moratorium, from which it is concluded that the government has admitted that this rule is a problem. Well, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the government, if it is a problem and it is identified, then it is solved! And fix it now and definitely! The impact this standard has had over the years was brutal to reduce the number of workers covered by collective contracts. In this context, we continue to be minimal and we do not see the relaunch of collective bargaining in this way. Again, a fair, sensible proposal and so far no justification from the Government and the PS on why they do not accept it. In fact, justification must be given to thousands and thousands of workers who remain unprotected because of this refusal and, even worse, in the crisis situation that we are going through and which will worsen. In order to prevent abuse and respond for those who work, changes to the law of work and not declarations of intent are needed. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u187	We turn to the proposed Article 99. o-C — Repristinatory norm and amendment to the Labour Code, submitted by BE. Mr Jorge Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u188	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The proposal that the Left Block brings here in this debate is not that which the Block has defended over the years, i.e. that of the replacement of 30 days per year of work as dismissal compensation. The proposal that we bring is the one that the Socialist Party defended, which was in the memorandum signed with the troika and which countered the PSD and the Government of Passos Coelho when the Socialist Party, wanting to go further, finally established this compensation in 12 days a year worked. In the debate in general, I asked the Minister of Labour why the Socialist Party and the Government do not accept to re-establish the level of compensation she defended at that time. I was left unanswered by the Minister and today I have to ask this question again, even though I read in the Express newspaper the answer of the PS parliamentary leader, Mrs Ana Catarina Mendes, who said that this rule cannot be changed because you cannot always be changing the law of work. It is, Mrs. Member, but the problem is that you are always changing the law of work. It was altered with Bagão Félix, changed with Vieira da Silva, changed with Mota Soares, and always for worse! Now, the amendment is for the better, it is an amendment to restore workers' rights in the field of redundancies and, in the face of the new wave of redundancies that comes there — and we have had a first wave that focused mainly on precarious work, on workers in experimental period, on workers hired on temporary terms — the wave of collective redundancies, the wave of redundancies of workers with rights, now the Socialist Party has to explain its choice: or it opts to be the guardian of the legal retrofits introduced by the PSD/CDS of Passos Coelho government — and that seems to be the position in which this debate will be placed, keeping the 12 days of compensation per year of work — or to penalise, as proposed by the Left Bloc, the easy solutions that cause workers to fall on, as a first option, the costs of the crisis. Therefore, what we propose is that the PS vote as it voted in 2012, which allows to rest on 12 days of compensation per year and does not ask the left to agree to participate with the Socialist Party in this role as guardian of the legal amendments of Passos Coelho. That's not why we came here. We do not give up the fight for better legal protection for the world of work, much less in times of crisis, in which it is even more necessary. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u189	Under the same proposal, Mrs Lina Lopes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u190	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In the face of the pandemic crisis we are experiencing, the PSD expected much more from this Budget for 2021. The current legislation has protected and guaranteed the right of Portuguese workers. The Labour Code, Law No. 7 / 2009, constantly updated until Law No. 93 / 2019 of 4 April, has been a guarantor of workers' rights. This guarantee is due to the negotiation that is carried out at the heart of social consultation. For PSD, social dialogue and social dialogue are not mere rhetorical figures. We cannot constantly change existing legislation due to pressure from the PCP or the Left Block. In my capacity as a Member of Parliament and also as a unionist woman, it is good that you understand that. We believe that the amendments to the Labour Code should be made at the heart of social consultation. Thus, the PSD will not follow any of the proposed amendments that amend the Labour Code. Therefore, regardless of the party proposing amendments to the Labour Code, the PSD will not be able to vote in favour of any of the amendments, since the PSD considers that all matters of the Labour Code should be agreed at the heart of social consultation. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u191	Mrs. Members, let us turn to Article 100. o — Special condition for access to the subsequent social unemployment benefit. Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u192	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members, it is urgent to respond to the current situation that the country faces and it is urgent to prohibit dismissals, to strengthen social protection in situations of unemployment, to defend employment with rights, jobs and wages throughout, essential conditions for guaranteeing dignity in the lives of workers and for the development of the country, including the necessary economic recovery. Therefore, the CFP proposes the suspension of redundancies by the end of 2021, covering all workers irrespective of the link, and the payment of 100 % of wages should be guaranteed. Social support for unemployed workers should be strengthened, in particular under conditions of unemployment benefits, their amounts and their duration. We propose the extension of the payment of these benefits, we reduce the guarantee period, we strengthen values, we propose the increase of 25 % of these benefits when both members of the couple are in a state of unemployment, or in the case of single parent families, and we need to guarantee social protection to workers who, because of various circumstances in the overwhelming majority and because of precarious working links, do not have access to social protection instruments and what is in this Budget is beyond their needs. The CFP proposes that this social protection go further, ensuring that no one is unprotected, that its scope is extended, that its values are strengthened, that the minimum value allocated and also the reference values are increased, that family allowances are excluded from the conditions of resources for the allocation of this support and that those without unemployment benefit access this support without a condition of resources. It is urgent to strengthen the protection of workers, especially when the economic and social situation is particularly serious. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u193	We turn to the proposal for Article 100. the -A— Extension of home support services to health care, presented by the PSD. Mrs. German Rocha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u194	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the demographic decline and the isolation of the elderly are realities that have been aggravated in a very worrying way. If there is something that this pandemic has shown was the importance of giving priority to the stay of the elderly in their family context, especially those who have come to close the day centers they attended, thus assuming home support a crucial role in the existence of conditions for those who care and for those who are cared for in their homes. These are more than enough reasons for this household support to include basic health care, which the Government has so far not been able to implement. Therefore, the PSD presents this proposal to include these health care in home support services in order to adapt to current needs, increasing the quality and effectiveness of these services to those who need them so much. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u195	We now turn to Article 101. o — Social security budget. Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro of the Socialist Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u196	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in the midst of these inscriptions it is sometimes not easy to do this management of the debate. I had asked for the floor to speak on the subject which Mr Jorge Costa brought here, on the references he made on matters of labour law and on the issues he had addressed. As you know, we've been taking a joint course over the past few years. And in this course, including the Green Paper on Labour Relations, including the working group on combating precariousness, including several points of convergence with respect to the parties with whom we have made a common path over the past few years, we have made significant improvements to the changes that we have pointed out in terms of labour law. This is by definition an area permanently unfinished. It is an area in which the guiding principles of our relationship, promoting stability, promoting the dignity of workers, are by definition, in responding to needs and in responding to the demands of our time, a work and permanent unfinished matters. It was in this sense that, already at the end of the past legislature, in the context of what we have done over the past few years, we have adopted several significant changes in labour law, several of them promoting significant improvements in what is, for example, the protection of younger workers, who today cannot be hired to term only because they are their first job. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u197	And these measures, over the past few months, have been implemented by companies, workers, employers, in a context of great need. in this sense, we believe that these measures should not always be subject to changes every quarter, every semester, or every year. This does not mean that we are not working on a number of proposals. As we know, in this Budget, and in the context of the work we have done over these weeks, we have already proposed, for example, a measure that has an extraordinary reach, which is a two-year moratorium on expirys, allowing a horizon of stability for the parties and allowing workers, throughout this period, to have a moratorium and to be covered by these collective labour contracts. It was also in this sense that we proposed, negotiated and discussed with the Left Block, with the CFP and also with the other parties who wanted — and want — to do this work together with us, a set of subjects that can and should be dealt with not specifically in the State budget, but after the State budget, also focusing on labour matters. This work was done, this document is known to the Left Block, is known to Mr. Jorge Costa. We do not close the door to this work and we understand that in order to continue this work we need an approved State budget. And in order to have an approved State budget we need this majority in this Assembly of the Republic. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u198	You have the floor, also in the context of the discussion of Article 101. Mr José Soeiro of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u199	Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro, in 2011 the Socialist Party agreed with the troika the decline in redundancies from 30 to 20 days and in 2013 the PSD and CDS changed them from 20 to 12 days. This amendment of the PSD and the CDS deserved harsh criticism from the Socialist Party, which rose against this amendment for 12 days in this Parliament, arguing that this amendment went beyond the troika and was a disrespect and an offense to the workers. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u200	The Socialist Party's Member spoke in unfinished processes of amendment to the Labour Code, but what the Socialist Party is proposing in this discussion is to record in stone the amendments of the right, which are not even the changes of the troika, is to record on the stone and give as definitive and unmovable the changes of the right, which were beyond the troika, which penalize the workers, who were a source of brutal transfer of workers' income to the employers and which facilitated redundancies. I would like to ask you, Mr Commissioner, because you think that the law of the PSD and the CDS against which the Socialist Party voted in the past is a good law and that must be maintained. I would like to ask you why you think that, at a time of crisis, when so many workers are going to be fired, the Socialist Party puts itself, as Mr Jorge Costa said, in the role of guardian of amendments that it considered offensive to the workers, on the role of guardian of cuts that harm the workers, particularly when we have to face a crisis and when we have to face a second wave of dismissal. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u201	Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro, from the PS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u202	Mr President, Mr Soeiro, over the past few months we have done what is certainly understood by all of us by the Portuguese as a protective tunnel for families, businesses and workers, protecting jobs and protecting incomes. It is thanks to this and, of course, to the measures we have been implementing, which we have prevented a galloping growth of unemployment, and this growth over the past few months can be compared, for example, with Spain and other countries in relation to which Portugal, certainly with difficulties — and surely one unemployed is one more unemployed — but it still compares well. And it compares well because we did these protective measures. We have several measures in this State budget to enhance the protection of workers: wage supplement, protection and enlargement to self-employed and informal workers, protection of unemployment, strengthening of subsidies, strengthening of a series of measures that protect income and protect the world from work. Having said this, and responding very directly, I would like to say that we are not discussing labour. We're not discussing the Labour Code, we're not discussing the labour code. And, in this sense, the Socialist Party certainly does not place itself as a guardian, much less the PSD and CDS. We place ourselves as guardians of what are our principles of valuing the dignity of work and, in this sense, we do not exclude the proposal you make here. We do not exclude this proposal. We understand that this proposal cannot and should not be made within the State budget. And it is in this sense that we have done our work, both within the budget and outside the budget, in supplementary documents, which will lead us to continue the way we have done, so they want to do it together, as we have done over the past few years. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u203	We now move on to the proposals submitted by the PS in Article 101. o -A, under the headings « Strengthening of human resources for social security» and « National Social Emergency Line ». Mr. João Paulo Pedrosa, of the PS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u204	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, social security services now reach more than 4 million Portuguese and, to continue the discussion recently, we have the largest social security budget ever, plus EUR 2000 million for social support and benefits. I repeat, social security services reach more than 4 million Portuguese. In the pandemic alone, it reached 2 million people, reached 150 000 companies and liquidated more than EUR 1 5 million. This also adds pensions, pension benefits, social support and programmes. Repeat: 4 million Portuguese are served by social security services. In Portugal there is no organization or company with this turnover that reaches so many people, with administrative and operating costs so low. Social security officials perform miracles with the means they have. In 2010 there were 11 159 employees, in 2020 there were 8113, but in 2015 there were 7000. Therefore, social security today has less than 40 % of its employees in 2010. It is therefore urgent to strengthen the human resources of social security, under the penalty of not serving the citizens when they need it most. The social emergency line answered 160 000 calls, plus 64 % of those it had attended in the previous year. That is why the Socialist Party's proposals for, in 2021, recruiting 250 more workers for social security, duplicate social emergency services, adding to measures that have been taken in the meantime — internal competitions, mobility, PREVPAP, hour bank, AGORA project ( Agiliate, Manage, Organize, Relation, Automatize ), etc. — they are fundamental, I would say even decisive, to respond to this crisis, which incisively affects the poorest and most vulnerable in society. With the reinforcement of these means, no child and no needy elderly person will be left behind. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u205	We move on to the proposal submitted by the PSD of Article 111. o -A — Accounting for the period of service of fishing professionals for the calculation of the reform. Mrs. Carla Barros from the PSD has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u206	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, on this proposal for correcting mistakes in fishermen's reforms, errors in working time accounting, errors in accounting for social security discounts, the PSD wishes to re-establish in this State budget for 2021 the same text and the same article in the 2020 budget, which was also approved in this Parliament. This is because the government has not met the fishermen. The Government has failed its commitment to the fishermen by failing to meet the State budget for 2020. in this sense, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is necessary to warn that the fisheries sector is a sector with many particularities, with difficulty in attracting labour, at the same time being a very important lever for the country's economy—not only for the municipalities of Povoa de Varzim, Vila do Conde, Matosinhos, but for the whole country—and therefore we cannot neglect everything. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u207	Mr. Secretary of State for Social Security, Gabriel Bastos, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u208	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, replying very briefly to Mrs Carla Barros, I can say that the Government already has the diploma in the legislative circuit which aims to regulate the article included in the State budget for 2020, and this year only ends at the end of December 2020 and therefore we will honour this commitment we have made in the State budget. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u209	Mrs. Carla Barros has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u210	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, I just wanted to tell you that we are very sorry that only now, by the end of the year, will you respond. But you've been in the government for five years. Five years ago! [[PSD applause.]] And we know that you must have in your secretary some 200 requests for corrections of fishermen's reforms from various northern councils. We know, yeah. And so far he hasn't given them an answer. So far he hasn't given an answer, and we're almost at the end of the year. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u211	We move on to the proposal submitted by the NAP of Article 112. o -A — Extraordinary support for professionals in the culture sector. Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u212	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, with the reduction of activity and restrictions imposed by the COVID-19, the cultural sector has become even more fragile, along with those who have already come to be the insufficient funding that, year after year, have marked this sector. In some ways, despite the expected answers, there are still many unprotected professionals and a fairly fragile situation. Despite the new extraordinary support for the income of the workers currently proposed in this Budget, many professionals still remain outside this protection, which is why the NAP, together with other measures, such as the 1 % allocation of the Culture Budget or other support to the cultural sector, proposes thus the creation of extraordinary support, which ensures the continuity of the income of professionals in the cultural sector who do not or do not benefit from any other type of income. Let us not delude ourselves: the country cannot live without culture. A country without culture is a soulless country, it is a country without identity and without any future. And that's why we can't help but give our hands to the professionals in the culture. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u213	The proposal submitted by BE is followed by Article 110. o -A — Amendment to the Legal Employment Protection Scheme. Mr. José Manuel Pureza has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u214	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the gigantic social crisis that is there reveals to us how insufficient our social protection system is. It is in the unemployed that these inadequacies are more unjust and more distressing. Only about half of the unemployed in Portugal receive unemployment benefits and less than 2 % are eligible for social unemployment benefit. In addition, we continue to have unemployment benefits below the poverty line. The relationship between unemployment and poverty is therefore direct and immense. It doesn't have to be like that. And it tells us the simple common sense that cannot be so, even more so now that unemployment is growing exponentially and so it throws into deprotection and into despair so many thousands of men and women. It is in the name of the simple sense of common sense and a basic sense of justice that prevents the social hecatombe which the Left Block proposes that we now erase the legacy of austerity and troika in unemployment benefits. First, in the value, by equalizing the amount of the social unemployment allowance to the poverty threshold and indexing the unemployment allowance to a proportion of the salary and not to the IAS. Secondly, in the duration of the period of granting prior to the troika. And thirdly, in access, reducing guarantee deadlines and improving the condition of resources for access to social unemployment benefit. This is a proposal of minimal sense and minimal justice. There is no reason — except for a rigid ideological prejudice — that can reject it. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u215	You now give the floor to Mr. Secretary of State for Social Security.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u216	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr José Manuel Pureza, the Government has worked with the left parliament, in particular with the Left Block, in the preparation of this budget and we were able, as a result of the discussions we had, to evolve in the proposal for a State Budget for 2021, presented to Parliament, in particular in the strengthening of extraordinary measures to address the economic and social effects of the pandemic crisis. The social protection system in Portugal, and in particular the social security system, has mechanisms that respond to and protect citizens' incomes. With regard to the situations resulting from this totally exceptional situation, we have created, over the course of this year, a set of extraordinary measures, with a very important scope and dimension, which have already protected a very large number of citizens who have suffered the consequences of economic paralysis and the economic effects of this pandemic crisis. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u217	Under the same article, Mr José Manuel Pureza has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u218	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, I am grateful that in his speech he has confirmed in good rigour all that I have said here on behalf of the Left Block. In fact, you did not deny any of the data I mentioned here. That is why the question we are asking is this: precisely knowing how, indeed, the Secretary of State has asked, from the outset, for his silence on this matter, to confirm — that about 50 % of the unemployed do not have any unemployment benefit, how is it justified for the Government to maintain this situation and to do nothing strictly in this proposal? And, on the other hand, how is it justified that you want to maintain in this State budget proposal exactly what is the legacy of austerity and troika in this matter, keeping everything as it is?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u219	That's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u220	The Secretary of State wanted to make an intervention which was — and I apologize to him for saying so — a great « vaguidity», having given no indication in this regard. Be registered. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u221	In the context of this article, the floor is again Mr. Secretary of State for Social Security.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u222	Mr President, Mr José Manuel Pureza, I have sought to answer your question by stressing the importance of the Portuguese social protection system and the social security system, which have a set of benefits that respond precisely to the possibilities that are foreseen. We have created extraordinary measures by 2020, with the scope and dimension that everyone recognises. With regard to the questions put here by Mr Deputies, I recall that the extraordinary support for the income of the workers planned for next year includes precisely the situations he has referred to...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u223	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u224	...and, moreover, protects workers who lose the unemployment allowance by accessing this provision without a condition of resources. We therefore believe that it is the right measure for this situation. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u225	Let us turn to Article 114. o — Free daycare. Mrs Diana Ferreira from the PCP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u226	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, it is in order to respond to families and also to people with disabilities that the CFP presents a set of proposals in this Budget. To extend the freeness of daycare to all children who attend the daycare centres and at the same time to implement a public network of daycare centres that responds to existing needs — 100 000 vacancies over the next three years in a phased implementation of a public network — is the proposal presented by the CFP. We also propose that the daycare facilities be reviewed, considering the situation of families. We insist on the extension of the family allowance, in the path of its universality, being the family allowance a right of the child. But it is also necessary to review the allocation of family allowance in the face of the new circumstances of family remuneration and income and also to make the appropriate correspondence of family allowance steps with the steps of school social action and the necessary support. It is necessary to go further in the social protection of people with disabilities, to extend the scope of social benefits for inclusion, to ensure their payment to 14 months, to strengthen their value, to extend them to those who acquired disability after 55 years or even with a disability of less than 60 %, and to assess them on a case-by-case basis. It is necessary to clearly identify the value allocated to support products, to ensure their strengthening according to needs and to ensure that any unused money is transferred to the following year, and this cannot mean a reduction in the amount allocated. It is to strengthen the rights of families and persons with disabilities that the CFP submits these proposals. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u227	We move on to the proposal submitted by the ENP of Article 115. o -A— Establishment of a network of residential structures for the elderly, of public management. Mrs Mariana Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u228	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the homes of the elderly are a social response for collective housing, temporary or permanent use, of elderly persons or others at risk of loss of independence or autonomy. The virus has highlighted many weaknesses in our society, of course, in the way the elderly are treated who, because of their advanced age, are vulnerable to the disease. This pandemic has highlighted a scenario, too often hidden and ignored, of the reality and structural problems of some homes. Most of these equipment are overcrowded and deprived of human resources and resources, which call into question the conditions in which many elderly people live. Over the years the State has resigned from its direct responsibility by choosing successive governments. It is urgent to expand places in residential structures for the elderly, and it is essential to end waiting lists to get a vacancy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u229	We continue with the assessment of the proposal submitted by the PS of Article 115. o -A - Creation of a pilot project to identify and forward the elderly ( IDEI ) at risk. To that end, Mr Eduardo Barroco de Melo, of the Socialist Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u230	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Government launched the National Radar Social Programme in the Programme for Economic and Social Stabilisation ( PEES ). This Program aims to signal and accompany the elderly, promoting active aging and healthy aging. The Socialist Party agrees with this programme, but it also believes that there is an opportunity here to deepen this measure. Therefore, we also propose in this State Budget the launch of a pilot project that aims to use resources that already exist on the ground and that can expedite and make this response more effective. It is true that, if it is true that about 50 of the 300 CPCJs (child and youth protection committees) in our country accompany less than 25 children, it is also true that these structures can also be useful to accompany and signal the elderly, but not because they have knowledge of the ground, because they are able to reconcile the forces of society that are in each locality and also because it is precisely in these territories where there are fewer children who feel more about this phenomenon of aging. in this sense, we understand that this pilot project will also be welcomed by these PCCJs, since they have the same will to contribute to the community, as we are sure that the same will also deserve the favorable vote of the other parliamentary boards. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u231	Let us now take note of the proposal submitted by the PSD of Article 113. o -A— Adjustment of the Cooperation Commitment for the Social and Solidary Sector in the year 2021. Mrs. Carla Madureira of the PSD has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u232	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The social and solidarity economy sector plays a role of greater importance in Portuguese society. Indeed, in addition to an altruistic motivation, which alone deserves the recognition and admiration of all, it is important to emphasize that the institutions of this sector are large employers and, in addition, service providers who would otherwise have to be carried out by the State. Much of the work done in these institutions is done by very dedicated and committed staff, but which has a low wage base, equivalent to the guaranteed minimum monthly remuneration. In order for the IPSS ( private institutions of social solidarity) to ensure the fulfilment of their responsibilities — the responsibilities they assume with the Government, with users and families, the PSD defends the updating of the Cooperation Commitment for the Social and Solidarity Sector, at the rate at which the guaranteed minimum monthly remuneration is increased, with retroactively to January 2021, to compensate for the costs increased in these institutions. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u233	We turn to the last article of today's morning, Article 116. o — Direct consultation in executive proceedings. To that end, you have the floor of Mrs Cláudia Santos of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u234	Mr President, what I shall say has little to do with Article 116. the proposal for a law and therefore I apologize to this Parliament. However, it seemed to us that Mr Ventura's intervention also had little to do with the article in the context of which he did so. It seems to us that the populist discourse is built on deception, so we will probably have to resort more and more frequently to clarify the facts. The only way to deal with this populist discourse will be, it seems to us, through the truth. The honourable Member called for a study by the Public Prosecutor's Office, very accurately, seeking to equate it with an absolutely wrong proposal of the Arrival. Now, it is indelicacy this confusion between a successful study of the Public Prosecutor's Office and a truly wrong proposal. So I won't need more than 30 seconds to justify it. The study of the Public Prosecutor's Office concludes something that is obvious: Morosity in administrative and tax courts is a factor in favor of corruption. All morbidity, all bureaucracy are factors of favoring corruption. And so, of course, it is important to fight this laziness in any public service to prevent corruption. What is different is to say, as was written in proposal 514 - C, of the Czech Republic, which is due in this Budget to devote an appropriation to, and I will quote, "increase in the number of judges of the administrative and fiscal courts, ensuring greater efficiency and speed in the decisions of corruption proceedings(...)". Now, the administrative and tax courts do not decide corruption processes—it is a palmor error! [[P.S.'s applause.]] I am sorry to change the order in which matters are discussed. I didn't have a chance to do it before. But I believe, more and more, that we need to fight populism through enlightenment. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-20.u235	Thank you very much, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen. The next plenary session will take place on 23 November, Monday, for the next 10 a.m. with the following agenda: firstly, we will discuss the rules avocados, with five minutes to the Government and each parliamentary group and the DURP (Single Representatives of the Party ) ; secondly, we will proceed to the vote on the rules avocados ; and thirdly, we will continue the discussion of the Law Proposals Nos 60 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Law of the Great Options for 2021 - 2023 and 61 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Approves the State budget for 2021. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, for today we have done our work for the end of the day and we wish good work for our colleagues in the Committee on Budgets and Finance. The session is closed. [[It was 13 hours and 16 minutes.]]
