ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 9 hours and 34 minutes.]] Mrs. Authorities, I ask you to open the gallery doors to the public. Mrs. Members, the first item on today's agenda is the discussion of the rules of the plenary, for which the Government, each parliamentary group and the only representatives of a party have five minutes. Now, since the government is not yet present in the Chamber, we have two hypotheses: either each parliamentary group registers and talks about what you want during those five minutes, and you can choose the lawyers you understand, or, then, we appreciate the standard, which seems to me to be much heavier. So what I thought was more in line with the democratic and forward-looking methods was that each parliamentary group should register and talk about the lawyers it wanted before we took the votes. You agree, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen? [[Pause.]] No objection seems to me to agree. In fact, that is how it has been done in recent years. The government is already in the Chamber, so we are in a position to begin the discussion. To intervene in respect of Articles 2. a 4. o, 7. o, 12. o, 14. o, 16. o, 19. o, 20. o, 37. o, 43. o, 58. o, 59. o, 62. o, 68. o, 70. o, 72. o, 73. o is 83. the proposed new articles of the Proposal for a Law No 5 / XIV / 1. Mr Alberto Fonseca, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor of the plenary.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries: « Well preach Friar Thomas, look at what he says, do not look at what he does». We have heard constantly that the parties to the left of the Socialist Party complain about the captives, but at the moment of truth, they stand next to the PS and the government.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u3	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u4	The PSD proposal to exempt from captivating the regulatory entities was unfeasible by the other opposition parties. These entities do not see their independence assured by the constant captivating we have been watching, year after year, and these parties are relevant to the maintenance of these captive entities, preventing them from going out to the street, from investigating, from monitoring and from regulating them. But it's never too late to repent. So today we want to give you, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, a second opportunity is not to cause a good first impression, because this opportunity has already passed, but to stand with us alongside the Portuguese and not with the Socialist Party. If they want regulatory entities to carry out their mission, regardless of the good disposition of the Minister for Finance, Mr Mário Centeno, the Cactivator, who is now a captive, now a captive person, vote favourably on the PSD proposal. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u5	To intervene, Mr. Secretary of State of the Budget has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Mr. Alberto Fonseca, I fully agree with you, « Well, prays Brother Thomas, look at what he says, do not look at what he does». [[P.S.'s applause.]] The PSD says that this left-wing budget has an excess of expenditure growth. And what does the PSD come to do here? He is coming up with proposals to ensure that there is more permanent expenditure, i.e. the exact opposite of what he has said over the past few months. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u7	For the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernando Anastácio has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u8	Mr President, the PSD, in fact, deals poorly with the State budget and, as it deals poorly with the State budget and with its proper implementation, has therefore endeavoured to question Article 3. o, rules which are essential laws of good budgetary implementation. I understand that, but it took four years, eight Budgets to get something right. That's why they don't live well with that. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And then they come to talk about captivating. But about captivating, look at your history and compare, because the difference is not so big. Captives have always been an instrument of budgetary implementation — and a good instrument — which helped you do what you did for four years.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u9	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u10	Now, with regard to captivating, I can assure you, and you know - well - that in health and safety, there was no captivating. [[PSD protests.]] And on regulatory entities, we must not take them out of the budget properly, we must not create an exceptional climate for other entities in the public sphere; we must, of course, value their independence, but also ensure that they have a good budget performance, like all of us who must have a good implementation. On the other hand, those who are concerned about public accounts should be concerned about a good budget implementation. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u11	For the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With the discussion of these lawyers, we have a final opportunity for the deliberations taken yesterday, with regard to pensions, particularly lower pensions, to be changed. For this management, for the PS and for the parties that support it in the government, social justice is to make those with higher pensions have a higher increase and those with lower pensions, the minimum, social and rural, have a lower increase. That is, for PS, BE and PCP who receives 273, 39 €, or who receives 252, 36 €, or who receives 210, 32 € has to have a lower pension increase than those who receive more. This, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is the opposite of social justice. It is worth remembering that, even in the times of the troika, even in very difficult times, these minimum, social and rural pensions have always had increases. Furthermore, it is worth remembering that in the time of the PSD/CDS government, the minimum pension, for example, had an increase of 15, 59 € and that, with the management government, it had an increase of only 11, 44 €. Rural pensions—and we're talking about around 250 €—with the PSD/CDS government, had an increase of 14, 39 € and with this government, which says so much to defend pensioners and social justice, had an increase of only 10, 54 €. These differences, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, these are the measures that separate your propaganda from reality. What was approved yesterday here is a punishment for minimum, social and rural pensions. This is what you are saying that since these pensioners did not have their frozen pensions from 2011 to 2015 then they will punish them. And they're going to punish them with a smaller increase than the one they give to pensioners who receive more. This, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, it's the opposite of social justice. So today you have the opportunity to review your position and dedicate an equal increase for all pensioners. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u13	Mr. Secretary of State for Social Security has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to remind Mrs Cecilia Meireles of the adágio, which has already been repeated during this short morning, that "Frire Tomás preaches...", because I think it applies that not a glove to this situation. The honourable Member cannot ignore the fact that over the last few years the CDS-PP has always voted against the measures put forward, precisely an improvement in pensions of lower amounts. I do not consider it to be a minimum punishment that we now have an extraordinary increase in lower pensions for the fourth consecutive year. It is an appreciation that we consider extremely important and of which we are proud. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u15	Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u16	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, the "Well Preaches Frei Tomás..." may be useful in the parliamentary debate, but it is appropriate to have some connection to the discussion that is being held. I ask just this: does it make sense that the lowest pensions of the lowest, the pensions of 273, 39 €, of 252, 36 € and of 210 €, 32 €, have an increase of 6 € and that the highest pensions have an increase of 10 €? This is your concept of social justice. What the CDS has always defended is that the lowest pensions of the lowest have an increase at least equal to that of the others. This, from our point of view, is social justice.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u17	I give the floor to Mr José Moura Soeiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u18	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Yesterday, the votes confirmed that there will be an extraordinary increase in pensions by 2020 to around 1 6 million pensioners, thus giving continuity to the income recovery policy and the formula used in the last three years. The Left Block argued, from the beginning, that this increase was €10. As you know, the Government and the Socialist Party have begun this budgetary debate by rejecting the hypothesis of an extraordinary increase in pensions. But there was a path that was made, in fact, with a lot of insistence, and pensioners will thus have a higher increase than the irrational values resulting from the application of the automatic updating of pensions. It is therefore good news for pensioners. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u19	For the Parliamentary Group of the CFP, Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u20	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: To value pensions, to pursue a path that effectively means a recovery of the purchasing power lost by pensioners and pensioners and to ensure the fourth extraordinary consecutive increase of pensions for pensioners and pensioners in our country: this is what we are talking about here. This is the proposal which the CFP advocates for voting in plenary. [[PCP applause.]] A proposal that values pensions and that, as much as the CDS does not like, also appreciates the contribution careers of our country's workers. In fact, it is a proposal that aims to ensure that in 2020 an extraordinary increase is achieved, similar to what was achieved in the previous legislation and that it was only possible because the CFP never gave up fighting for the recovery of pensions and its extraordinary increase. There were also those who, in the previous legislation, were content only with the automatic updating of pensions, but the PCP did not. The CFP has always been here in this fight and is here again today to value pensions and to defend another extraordinary increase for pensioners and pensioners in our country. [[PCP applause.]] In fact, yesterday in the vote here, the extraordinary increase of €10 for pensions above 1, 5 IAS(indicating social support) was even approved, for a few minutes, it was not the PSD that "turned the nail", changed its sense of vote and prevented thousands of pensioners with a pension above 1, 5 IAS from having this extraordinary increase. [[PCP applause.]] And what we also question, with the approval of this proposal, how will the PSD vote on this proposal from the CFP. Will you guarantee this extraordinary increase also to pensioners who have a pension above 1, 5 IAS, or will you vote again as you voted yesterday, preventing these pensioners from having an extraordinary increase in their pensions? [[PCP applause.]] The valuation of pensions is essential to ensure conditions of dignity in the lives of pensioners and pensioners. And the PCP is here to make that fight. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u21	For the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party, Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u22	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : The extraordinary increase in pensions that we have entered in this State budget shows that this budget is progressing along the path we have seen over the past few years. We're still doing it. And we continue to comply because in the Budgets we deepen not strictly accounting options, not budgetary options, but political options through which the State Budget meets our vision for a more coherent country, a more equal country and a more just country. Mrs Cecilia Meireles, we need a lot of deface, let me tell you, come here about social justice and support for the elderly when you voted against all the extraordinary increases in pensions we have made over the last few years in this country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] There is a great deal of uncertainty in supporting a government that has increased poverty among the elderly, cutting off the solidarity supplement for the elderly ( CSI), cutting into the social income of insertion for the elderly and increasing poverty — and I'm not saying it, is the National Institute of Statistics ( INE ). You have promoted the increase in poverty among the elderly through the political options that you have entered in your State budgets or through the differences they have had in relation to our own budgets. The extraordinary increase in pensions will be €10 or €6, depending on the value of the lowest pensions, which accumulates with what we have done last year and over the past four years, benefiting millions of pensioners and pensioners. The Portuguese well know the difference that the governing of the Socialist Party has made in their lives. Reformers well know the difference that the Socialist Party Government has made, and will continue to do, in their lives and therefore chose him to pursue this path for another four years. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u23	Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Greens has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u24	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : On the whole of the proposals that have been brought today to plenary, the Greens will focus in particular on the proposals concerning the extraordinary increase in pensions, given their social importance and the need to seek to overcome social inequalities. In fact, pensions are the main means of subsistence for the generality of pensioners and pensioners. And it is absolutely unquestionable not only that the quality of life of pensioners and pensioners is very dependent on the amount of their pensions, but also that much of the elderly population in our country is unfortunately the victim of poverty and social exclusion, despite the extraordinary increases that were possible to promote during the previous legislation and that, in the perspective of the Greens, it is important to continue to strengthen. Effective and real strengthening in the fight against poverty is necessary to dignify the value of reforms. As we all certainly remember, perhaps some more than others, nor the pensioners escaped the wave or, better, the fury, the cuts that the PSD/CDS government, without pain or pity, imposed on the Portuguese in general, having even had the courage to apply what it called the sustainability rate to those who already lived in a truly unsustainable situation. In fact, pensioners and pensioners have been severely penalized by the PSD/CDS government — and we are talking about people who had no alternative and could not even dream of returning to the labour market. But that, to the right, little interest was expressed: even knowing that thousands of pensioners lived below the poverty line, it went on dramatically to withdraw purchasing power to those who had little. It was through increased rates of IRS (tax on income of natural persons) either through cuts or through increases in essential goods such as water, such as light, like gas, and out there, it was worth everything or almost everything. And if things haven't gone any further, it wasn't because the PSD/CDS government didn't want to, but basically because the Constitutional Court first put a brake on the government's claims to perpetuate the extraordinary contribution of solidarity and then because the Portuguese put the right away from power. If that were not the case, they would have flown over EUR 700 million from reforms and pensions. Not even the red lines of the CDS would have to be worth, like, anyway, they didn't. But it was worth the desire of the Portuguese that, by putting the right away from power allowed not only to stop the wave of cuts and injustices towards reformers and pensioners, but also to allow a way of rest and some justice. on this path it is fair to point out that by proposals which, of course, have also had the support of the Greens since 2017, the State budgets began to foresee an extraordinary increase in pensions. Accounts made since 2017 more than two million reformed experienced the recovery of some purchasing power. But the Greens believe that it continues to make sense, it is still more than fair to ensure this extraordinary increase, at least as long as the pension updating system is maintained which, in fact, it is important to review, from the outset because it does not allow the essential thing to guarantee the improvement of the quality of life of people who have spent their lives working. As I still have time, I will also take a decision on the PSD proposal which has been advocated today by the plenary and which has to do with the captives to independent administrative entities. I think this proposal is a delusion. Nor do I speak so much about the seizures, I am talking more about what the PSD proposes, which is the fact that independent administrative entities do not need any government authorization to draw up contracts on the execution of expenditure. What you propose is public expenditure without any control, it is possible to spend without budgetary limits and be free from captivity. [[PSD protests.]] I don't know if you guys are. Members received a committee of workers from an independent body, a regulator. They may also have received them and provided them with information on this. [[PSD protests.]] However, if the release of captives in this case is more than questionable, the part in which it refers that independent administrative entities can make any expenditure without the authorization of the government is not only irresponsible, it is very dangerous, especially when we, today, both speak in the fight against corruption, in compassion and in friends. [[PSD protests.]] It also seems to me that the more supervision there is in the spending the more these risks are avoided. I still wanted to say, ladies. Members, that the framework law of independent regulators says that the budget of regulators is approved by the Government, so its implementation, i.e. expenditure should be monitored by the government, and in this case more effective, even if it is done in a preventive manner. [[Protests by PSD Member Duarte Marques and CDS-PP Member Cecilia Meireles.]] The gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, you know...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u25	Mr President, you have already exceeded the intervention time given to your party. Please finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u26	The gentlemen. Members well know that we are talking about independent entities, but they also know that we are talking about administrative entities and that they are therefore part of the administration and must be subject to supervision, of course, like the others. [[PEV applause.]] [[PSD Member Protest Duarte Marques.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u27	It doesn't say anything like that! It doesn't say anything like that!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u28	Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u29	Mr. President and Mr. Members, in addition to all rhetorical exercises with Friar Tomás, defacetism and the past and present governments, only liked that one of the Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen who approved yesterday's solution...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u30	He doesn't like it! He doesn't like it!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u31	... please explain why a pensioner who receives 210, 32 € has an increase of 6 € and one who receives much more has an increase of 10 €. This is all you have to explain today: why does one who receives less has a smaller increase and one who receives more has a greater increase? Is this your concept of social justice? Oh, my God! I would like to know why those who receive a minimum social or rural pension must be punished with a smaller increase than those who have a higher pension. That's all you have to explain!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u32	Mr Clara Marque Mendes of the PSD Parliamentary Group now speaks.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u33	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD asked for the proposal to pay the rejected pensions last afternoon. This is a situation of basic tax and, above all, social justice. What you told the state yesterday is that it pays to pay late, it compensates to fail for the citizens!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u34	Look who's talking!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u35	This is because, still paying late and failing for the citizens, the state has revenue, remains with money. That is what you told the government to continue to do, i.e. not to comply with pensioners. You say that you are very concerned about pensioners, but you have just told them that they will continue not to receive the money they are entitled to. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, what the PSD proposes is not to increase the revenue of the State, it is to pay citizens the money with which the State is unduly remaining. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u36	Mrs Diana Ferreira of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u37	Mr. President and Mr. Members: The real fight against poverty among pensioners, pensioners and the elderly is inseparable from the annual valuation of pensions, ensuring the replacement of purchasing power. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Cecilia Meireles.]] But the CFP believes that it is also important to strengthen the benefits and social support that are guaranteed to the pensioners, pensioners and the elderly in our country. In fact, it is important here to remember how workers and pensioners were punished during the time of the PSD and the CDS, with all cuts that were imposed on their incomes and also their rights.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u38	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u39	Solidarity for the elderly can and should be an important tool for combating poverty. In the past, the CFP intervened with proposals to improve this social benefit and its scope and we did so again in this State budget. The inclusion of children's tax income as a criterion for access to this benefit disrespects the autonomy and dignity of the elderly and means the exclusion of thousands of elderly people from this benefit. Yesterday, this PCP proposal was approved, ensuring better and more social protection for the elderly in our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u40	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u41	What we hope is that this vote will continue today and that these same elderly people will maintain this social protection that they were able to achieve yesterday with the proposal of the CFP. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u42	Mr. José Soeiro, of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u43	Mr. President and Mr. Members: For years the Left Block has proposed, in this Parliament, that the income of children should not be accounted for for in addition to the solidarity of the elderly, which is, in fact, a very important benefit in combating the poverty of pensioners. Child consideration is an offense to the autonomy of the elderly. It is not only an offence but also a humiliation to provide support to combat the poverty of parents to prosecute their children in court for lack of support.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u44	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u45	So increasing the value of the solidarity complement for the elderly to make it correspond to the poverty index and withdrawing children from the accountization of support, access to this benefit is a right step so that there is a little more justice for those who already have so little. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u46	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr. Secretary of State for Social Security, Gabriel Bastos.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u47	Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, I just wanted to remind you that there is a difference between the pensions of the contribution system and the pensions of the non-contributory system.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u48	All right! Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u49	This is an aspect that corresponds to the matrix of our system and clearly distinguishes both situations. Mrs Clara Marques Mendes, I would like to add that the government has increased all pensions in the last four years. He will continue to do so, but he wanted to differentiate the lowest pensions.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u50	I talked about payments!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u51	And I also tell you about the fight against poverty among the elderly that the tool — as has already been pointed out here — that we have at our disposal and that it has been created, the solidarity complement for the elderly, is the most effective tool to combat this kind of poverty. We have also introduced measures and amendments with a view to enhancing the effectiveness of this instrument with regard to supporting the elderly. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u52	Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u53	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: During this morning, in the vote on both the amendments and the articles, I will use the valuable lessons I have gathered yesterday in what was my first debate in committee. For example, I learned that, contrary to what the PS says, the only alternative to this Budget is there is no less taxes and more expenditure. The Liberal Initiative defends less taxes and less expenditure. And this was made clear by the many times when the Liberal Initiative voted alongside the Socialist Party to contain « fattenings» of the state, contracts without nexus, without criteria and without weight. The second lesson is that now inspired by the fable of ant and cigarette — which in some parts of the country is called blindness — management is undone but left heirs. He left a blind man...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u54	Blind? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u55	... that makes a sort of sprawling between the ends of this Parliament — Block of Left, Communist Party Portuguese, PAN and Arrival — that vote in favour of whatever the state is to fatten. Everything without any kind of weighting. We will always oppose this type of uncriteria-free movement. [[Protests by PS MP Ascenso Simões.]] The third teaching, a teaching of what not to do, was given to us by the Socialist Party, following the pause last night. The Socialist Party comes back from the night break and decides to change the meaning of several votes—I don't know how many, I don't know if it was 20 or if it was 25! — which had voted two hours earlier. Was it lapsed? Was it a lack of time? Has the largest parliamentary group in this House, with the largest group of advisers, been deceived? Oh, my God! What will the smaller groups do? Or was it a mere exercise of political calculation and electoral attempt to please everyone? Oh, my God! We will not follow that teaching. Today we will continue to vote in accordance with our conscience and our programme, because we know that there is an alternative to this Budget and that alternative is a liberal alternative.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u56	Mr Paulo Moniz of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u57	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD today brings here again the proposal for tax exemption for Flores and Corvo entrepreneurs, for the substantial reasons that the declaration of public calamity, which was decreed by the Government of the Republic, sustains. Following this public calamity, which is still affecting practically, with the same hardness as three months ago, the Flowers and the Crow, we heard the Socialist Party of the Azores, hand in hand with the Socialist Party and the Government of the Republic, speaking in national solidarity. The vote is for democracy like cotton. This is the time of truth and, at the time of truth, the Socialist Party failed the Azorians, failed with the given word, gave a hand full of nothing and, even yesterday, in the vote, before it was finished, returned, in relation to the universities of the Azores and Madeira, to deny the indispensable financing, contrary to what they repeatedly say, deceiving the Azorians, who do not have short memory. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u58	Mrs Maria Manuel Rola, of the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u59	Mr President: It is not enough to say that housing is a priority; we must look at the Budget and see that it is indeed. of housing shortages we already know the history, of the returned public edificado also know that it is vast. The need for a budget for the rehabilitation of the public building is therefore clear. But to this evidence, which the Socialist Party itself recognized in September 2019, does not correspond to any budget. However, there is a value for this budget and it was not us who defined it, but Minister Mário Centeno himself, who in September 2019 identified the need for more than 150 million euros for the program that would guarantee public housing. Well, if you've identified him five months ago, it's not understood that you don't identify him right now. This option to limit both the budget for housing responses only shows that, contrary to what the government and what Mr Correia reaffirmed yesterday, this is not a priority. The Government and the Socialist Party are not only failing with those who need a house, they are already failing with their own programme. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u60	Mr João Castro of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u61	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Mr Paul Moniz, we all remember, especially the Azorians, very well of the times not very long in which, before the weather, the Government of the Republic sent the Azores to the bank and still called it « support». National solidarity must be developed in respect of regional autonomy within the framework of relations between the regional government and the Government of the Republic. Introductions in this process are at least extemporaneous and will be disrespected by regional autonomy. It is in this context that this initiative is decontextualized, especially when it emerges out of a previous consultation, indispensable for eventual success in its implementation. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u62	Mr. André Ventura, from arrive, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u63	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I want to make it clear that, effectively, the Arrival will always be on the side of the increase in pensions and will do-CL whether it is with the PCP, whether it is with the Left Block, whether it is with the PAN, for the same reason as always: we cannot spend money on everything and anything else and when the time comes to be next to our elderly look aside as if it were nothing. But this is not the big issue of this budget. The question of this Budget is an agreement made on Sunday between the Socialist Party, the PCP and the Left Block, which, in order to return to VAT (tax on added value) of electricity, will now approve any supplement which, for the PCP, was weak a few weeks ago, was medium a week ago and is great today when we arrive at this debate. The Left Block, at least, has already won some decoration and no longer says it's good, it's too much or it's little, says it's what Dr. António Costa can give, therefore, it's what he accepts. What we see here today is not the sprawling between the PCP and the Arrival, or between the Left Block, the PAN and the Reach! What we see is that there are some who are not sold to the government and others who are always ready to give their hand to the Government of the Socialist Party. But there is more in this Budget: there is public housing, as now the Left Block has just said, and it is very good to always say that to those out there who are paid taxes and thinks that it is always paying for more public housing. It was good for the Left Block to clarify which public housing wants and which taxes, which money they want to pay for. [[BE's protests.]] It's just that we're starting to pay so many taxes everywhere—it's in gas oil, in the IRS, in the IMI (municipal property tax) everywhere! —... [[BE's protests.]] ...so that the public housing, which never reached any place, is given to the wreckage. Just to finish, it was important to realize this: yesterday, this Budget allowed, for the first time, the Socialist Party, in this case the Government, to disseminate the money it gives to foundations, observatories and everything else. It will be important for the Portuguese to understand where and why their money is being used. It is that there must not be a Portuguese out there, I repeat, there must not be a Portuguese who is not tired of giving money to observatories, foundations and other things that you invent in this House!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u64	Only yesterday he proposed three!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u65	Mr Bruno Dias of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u66	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : The State budget and the votes we make in it must be an opportunity to respond concretely to the problems of the people and the country and here one of the central issues of the lives of the people who are the issue of housing. With the profound need for adequate housing supply, the alienation of state buildings that can serve this objective, whether or not it is unacceptable and must have a final point. The PCP proposes that these buildings with housing capacity may not be disposed of and move to the management of the IHRU (Instituto da Habitação e da Rehabilitation Urbana ). But we propose more: we propose strengthening the IHRU's financial resources either for the realisation and rehabilitation of the housing park, with an amount of EUR 200 million, or for the support of young people's rent, to EUR 25 million in this specific heading. This will end this injustice by being excluded from this support by thousands and thousands of young people every year, when some make the role of real estate lawyers.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u67	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u68	But in addition to responding to the serious problems that exist today in this area, it is important from the outset to avoid new and more serious problems, particularly with the thousands of people who are now facing the threat of gross increases in their incomes, when the end of the safeguard clause with which they have been saved from the so-called "dispatch law" of the CDS and the PSD. We therefore propose that the rules of this regime which has infern the lives of people should not be applied. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it's enough people to get out of their homes and neighborhoods. Housing is a right and the Constitution is to comply. To ensure this, here are the CFP proposals. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u69	There are no ladies and gentlemen. Members registered for further interventions. I recall that there is a parliamentary group that hasn't used any time yet. Maybe it was time to use it.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u70	Maybe they don't want to! [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u71	Mr Moisés Ferreira of BE has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u72	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: That INEM ( National Institute of Medical Emergency ) has a fundamental role in helping the population and in pre-hospital care, this is a fact, as well as a fact that INEM is experiencing a serious problem, which is the lack of professionals that causes delay in responding to calls, which makes it impossible to ensure the operation of ambulances and prevents new means, even if they are even provided for in the law. The government knows this and knows that the only solution is to open procurement competitions, but it does not want to solve the problem. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it will have to be the Budget to set out, unequivocally, that by the end of the first half of this year they will open the tenders for the hiring of professionals which the INEM considers necessary for the operationality of all means. This is the proposal that the Bloc brings the vote, because this is the solution for INEM. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u73	Mrs Marina Gonçalves of the PS has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u74	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: If there is anything that has characterized the discourse of the Socialist Party, it is indeed the framework of housing as a priority in public policies. The fact that the country has awakened late to the problem of housing in Portugal does not hold us responsible; it gives us a renewed sense of responsibility for the definition of real responses and, above all, effective for housing shortage in Portugal. We have not come to this hand-held debate. We have come to the debate by presenting suggestions for improvement and contributing to greater stability of this public policy, as it would also be necessary for all, including those who have repeatedly demarcated themselves as housing guarantors, but who are now present at the debate — see! — without any proposal, without any idea for the country and to solve this problem. We can only effectively change something, help solve problems, safeguard the right of housing as a constitutional pillar of a democratic rule of law if we are really able to be in the debate with the effective motivation to respond to this scourge, which affects not only the most deprived families but also the families of the middle class. Otherwise, we're not doing a good job.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u75	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u76	That is why it is important to strengthen solutions, but that is also why it is important to realize the pace at which the public response may arise. For the implementation of public housing policy, it is not enough to define the budgetary basis of each programme. It is important that all agents in the sector cooperate, as is the case with municipal chambers. It is important that all legislative instruments have time for implementation and implementation, as is the case with the Accessible Rent Programme. It is important to give time for the rehabilitation and construction of the public housing park, which will not only give an effective response by the State to this problem but also contribute to a policy of fixing less speculative incomes, which allow each one to pay what is right for his own lease.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u77	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u78	It is on this basis that, for four years, a new general housing policy has been defined and it is on that basis that this State budget gives an answer. It is also on this basis that the Socialist Party presents a proposal that strengthens investment in 2020 and that aims, above all, to find mechanisms to give stability and financing to IHRU. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u79	Mrs Maria Manuel Rola of the Left Block has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u80	Mr President: What the Socialist Party presented in campaign is well-identified. The safeguard and response to housing needs and the scourge that the Government needs to respond to was already in the Socialist Party's electoral programme, is in the government programme and is well defined: it is EUR 150 million. What our proposal does not present is what is currently in the Budget, is more than EUR 150 million for public heritage, for housing, affordable income, and not for 1. the law, which, however, is broken by the inscription of Porta 65 Jovem. This identification is made, Mrs. Marina Gonçalves. Our question is this: will the Socialist Party vote in favour of the identification it has made to respond to the need for public housing and the scourge it has referred to in this country? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u81	Well asked!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u82	Mr Ventura, from arrive, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u83	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am, honestly, very astonished at you, when you say that the great measure you are presenting here is to prevent evictions from taking place today and forever. Look, if you go through these municipal chambers outside, you find rents that haven't been paid since 1976, others since 1977 and so on. They are rents that are nothing else but enjoying with us, with all of us, and what they propose is to end it. So explain to me what he does to those who don't pay. What do you do to those who don't pay? They say: continue, the Portuguese are here to pay! Won't you pay tomorrow? No problem! There must be someone out there who pays! There must be a small entrepreneur whose state owes 30 million dollars! [[BE's protests.]] There must be small entrepreneurs to whom the state has not paid the debts that pay the public housing! It is very easy to be in this House and speak in public housing. But when we look out there, we see people who haven't paid rent in 30 years! 30 years ago! In Loures, Sintra, Lisbon, in the main chambers of this country. And what do you propose? Oh, my God! More public housing, more money! Get the Portuguese to pay for it! That's not political, it's not serious. That's one hand and take the Portuguese with the other. It's to take one side and go get the taxes. But that's what you guys already know. It is taxing taxes to pay for public housing. [[BE's protests.]] Then they come here and tell the Socialist Party that public housing is a fundamental thing and that we must all be united, with given hands. It is very easy to say that when your hands are not yours, they are the hands of the Portuguese outside who pay taxes to support houses and more homes without income, affordable income, unpaid income and more a set of incomes that you want to invent. That's the truth! The middle class of the Portuguese is tired, I repeat, tired of paying taxes! She's sick of paying taxes! And your measures are always one thing: more taxes, more taxes, more taxes! Now public housing, now public sports, now all public! And the Portuguese always pay taxes! One day, you're going to be more expensive than you think! [[BE's protests.]] One day, you're going to be more expensive than you think!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u84	It is the time of Mrs Bebiana Cunha from the NAP who has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u85	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I mean that 2, 2 million people are at risk of poverty or social exclusion; 615 000 people are living in severe material deprivation. According to the data released in January of this year by the European Union's official statistical office, about 15 % of Portuguese pensioners are at risk of poverty. We would like to reiterate that, of course, the NAP is in favour of all the proposals that respect the living conditions of our pensioners, so of course we will follow the proposals that they make. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u86	If there are no more entries, although there are still very wide-ranging parties available, we can proceed to the vote. [[Pause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, since the Bureau does not register entries for intervention, then we will move on to point 2 of our agenda today, to vote in plenary of the rules avoked in the Commission. I request the Services to carry out the electronic verification of the quorum. [[Pause.]] The electronic system records the presence of 215 Members. However, there are several Mrs. Members who have not been able to register electronically and who will be in favour of signaling to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u87	Mr. President, will you excuse me?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u88	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u89	Mr President, the electronic system is on the contrary: it is pointing out the present as missing and the missing as present! This has to be solved.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u90	The system is completely subverted, but there will be time to regulate it during the session. As we can see, there is clearly a quorum for us to vote, so we will start them. So let's start with Article 2. the proposal for a law — Strengthened value. We shall vote on proposal 1035 - C, submitted by the PSD, adding Article 2 ( 3 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the ENP were rejected, votes in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP, the CH and the IL and abstentions by BE, the CFP, the PAN and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We shall proceed to the vote on proposal 1091 - C, submitted by BE, on the addition of Article 6. o -A — Public housing park. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and CH were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the CDS-PP and the IL.]] We moved on to Article 7. o — Budget transfers. We shall vote on the proposal 365 - C submitted by the PCP for the addition of a Verba 97 to the Map of budgetary amendments and transfers referred to in Article 7. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and CH were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the CDS-PP, the NAP and the IL.]] We shall proceed to the vote on proposal 693 - C, tabled by the Czech Republic, on the addition of a Verba 97 to the Map of budgetary amendments and transfers referred to in Article 7. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD, PAN and other non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected, votes against the CDS-PP, CH and IL and abstained from BE, PCP and ENP.]] We continue with the vote on the proposal 507 - C, tabled by BE, to add an article 7. o -A — Suspension of National Defence Day. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, PCP, CDS-PP, CH and IL were rejected, votes against BE and ENP and abstentions against PAN and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We shall now vote on proposal 394 - C, submitted by BE, adding a Article 40. o -A— Reinforcement of INEM. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, ENP, IL and MP not registered Joacine Katar Moreira and the CH abstention.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let us now come under Article 43. the proposed law — Recruitment of workers in municipalities in a situation of sanitation or rupture. We shall vote on proposal 950 - C, tabled by the NAP, amending Article 43 ( 1 ). o. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the CDS-PP and the CH were rejected, votes against the NAP, the IL and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from PSD, BE, PCP and ENP.]] We shall proceed to the vote on Article 43 ( 1 ). o.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u91	Mr. President, will you excuse me?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u92	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u93	Mr President, by us, until the proposal of the Left Block can be voted on together.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u94	So let us vote together everything that we have not voted for here in Article 43. Is that it?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u95	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u96	Mr President, if I may, we can vote from Article 43 ( 1 ) to ( 6 ). o.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u97	Let us then vote on paragraph 1, points ( a ), ( b ), (c ), (d ) and ( e ) of paragraph 2, the body of paragraphs 2 and 3, 4, 5 and 6, all relating to Article 43. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of PS, PSD, PCP, ENP and MP not included Joacine Katar Moreira and Abstaining from BE, CDS-PP, PAN, CH and IL.]] We shall continue with the vote on proposal 503 - C submitted by BE to add Article 43 ( 7 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and IL were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, ENP and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD, CDS-PP and CH.]] We shall vote on Article 43 ( 7 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PSD, the PCP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the NAP and abstains from BE, CDS-PP, CH and IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u98	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u99	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u100	Mr. President, I apologize for the interruption. I was told that, in addition to the information I telephoned at the Bureau, I had to announce to the House that I am present, although it is not the electronic picture.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u101	These announcements are for the end of the vote, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, let us turn to Article 58. o — Increased income of pensioners and combating poverty among the elderly. We begin by voting on Article 58 ( a ) ( 1 ). the, contained in proposal 15 - C1, of the CFP. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH and MP not registered Joacine Katar Moreira and the vote against IL.]] The vote on Article 58 ( a ) shall follow. the, contained in proposal 298 - C1, of the Left Block. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We now vote Article 58 ( 1 ( b ). the, contained in proposal 15 - C1, of the CFP. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, ENP and Non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against CDS-PP and abstentions from CH and IL.]] We turn to the vote under Article 58 ( 1 ( b ). the, contained in proposal 298 - C1, of the Left Block. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira, the votes against the CDS-PP and the IL and the abstention from the CH.]] We proceed with the vote on Article 58 ( c ). the constant of proposal 15 - C1, of the PCP. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, the CFP, the NAP, the ENP and the Member of Parliament registered Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD, the CDS-PP, the CH and the IL.]] We shall vote on proposal 1061 - C1, from the CDS-PP, in the part in which Article 58 ( 1 ) is amended. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CDS-PP, the NAP, the CH and the IL and abstentions of BE, the PCP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] Following these votes, the vote on Article 58 (1) shall be adversely affected. The proposal of the law. We then voted on proposal 991 - C of the CFP amending Article 58 ( 2 ). o. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the PEN, the PEN, the CH, the IL and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira and the PSD abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u102	So the PSD has changed its way of voting in relation to the vote in the Commission again? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u103	Now, suddenly, an amendment to the vote script came from the services. So we have to make a waiting compass. [[Pause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the European Parliament, following proposal 1061 - C1, of the CDS-PP, in the part in which Article 58 (2) is amended. The proposal of the law.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u104	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u105	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u106	Mr President, I am sorry, but with regard to proposal 991 - C of the CFP, to amend Article 58 ( 2 ). that of the bill, the sense of vote of the Socialist Party is against. I'm sorry for the confusion. [[Ah!...]] [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u107	Therefore, proposal 991 - C of the CFP was rejected with votes against the PS, abstention from the PSD and votes in favour of the remaining banks. He called on the parliamentary groups to facilitate the work of the Bureau and not to change their way of voting successively. That's not possible!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u108	Mr President, may I take the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u109	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u110	Mr President, it is only to inform that the meaning of the PS's vote on proposal 991 - C of the CFP, in today's vote in plenary, was the same as in yesterday's vote in the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u111	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in order to avoid any confusion, we shall again vote on proposal 991 - C of the CFP amending Article 58 ( 2 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the PEN, the PEN, the CH, the IL and the Member who did not register Joacine Katar Moreira and the PSD abstention.]] We turn to the vote on proposal 1061 - C1, of the CDS-PP, in the part in which Article 58 (2) is amended. o. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CDS-PP, the NAP, the CH and the IL and abstentions of BE, the PCP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] [[Pause.]] I'm sorry, but it can't be like this tomorrow. More amendments have been made to the script in the Bureau at the time of the vote and this is not the way to organise the votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u112	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u113	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u114	Mr President, I have a proposal to resolve this embarrassment. We can make the votes contained in the script that has been distributed and give as assumed those that were made yesterday in the Commission, so that at the end it will be all right.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u115	I think that's the only way to work. Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, you asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u116	Mr President, as the votes so far have not changed the outcome of the votes made in the Commission, this is possible in this case in particular. But this rule is not applicable without further criteria because otherwise the votes in plenary may change the outcome of the votes in the Commission. That is why, in particular, we, who are the proposers, agree that this should be done in these terms, but this case cannot make case-law for the future, as you can see.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u117	We shall then proceed to the vote on proposal 15 - C2, of the CFP, in the part in which a new paragraph 2 is added to Article 58. The proposal of the law. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] The vote is followed by the vote on proposal 298 - C2, from the Left Block, in the part where a new paragraph 2 is added to Article 58. o [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] The vote on Article 58 ( 2 ). The bill is damaged. We proceed with the vote on proposal 15 - C2, from the CFP, in the part in which Article 58 ( 3 ) is added. o [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We are now voting on proposal 298 - C2, from the Left Block, in the part in which Article 58 (3) is added. o [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We shall proceed to the vote on proposal 1061 - C2, from the CDS-PP, in the part where a paragraph 3 is added to the same article. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CDS-PP, the NAP, the CH and the IL and abstentions of BE, the PCP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u118	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u119	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u120	Mr President, I believe that the CDS-PP proposal, which has been rejected, is exactly the same as the two proposals which have been approved by the CFP and the Block. Therefore, in order for there to be no legal problem, I would prefer to give the CDS proposal as a damaged one than to call into question the rule we have just adopted. However, I think it should be noted that parties have completely different successive votes for exactly the same proposals, which is a shame. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u121	Mrs. Member, it's always been that way. There are proposals that are adopted and others that are rejected, being very similar and even exactly the same. That's right. We shall proceed to the vote on proposal 15 - C2, submitted by the CFP, in the part in which a paragraph 4 is added to Article 58. The proposal of the law. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We are now voting on proposal 298 - C2, submitted by the Left Block, in the part where paragraph 4 is added to Article 58. The proposal of the law. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We turn to the vote on proposal 1061 - C2, submitted by the CDS-PP, in the part where paragraph 4 is added to Article 58. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CDS-PP, the NAP, the CH and the IL and abstentions of BE, the PCP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We shall vote on proposal 15 - C2, submitted by the CFP, in the part where paragraph 5 is added to Article 58. The proposal of the law. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We shall proceed to the vote on proposal 298 - C2, submitted by the Left Block, in the part where paragraph 5 is added to Article 58. The proposal of the law. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] The wording of proposal 1061 - C2, submitted by the CDS-PP, is set out below in the voting script, in the part where paragraph 5 is added to Article 58. the proposal for a law, whose vote is impaired. We proceed with the vote on proposal 1061 - C2, submitted by the CDS-PP, in the part where paragraph 6 is added to Article 58. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CDS-PP, the NAP, the CH and the IL and abstentions of BE, the PCP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We are now voting on proposal 1061 - C2, submitted by the CDS-PP, in the part where paragraph 7 is added to Article 58. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CDS-PP, the NAP, the CH and the IL and abstentions of BE, the PCP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We turn to the vote on proposal 1061 - C2, submitted by the CDS-PP, in the part where paragraph 8 is added to Article 58. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CDS-PP, the NAP, the CH and the IL and abstentions of BE, the PCP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We shall vote on proposal 908 - C, submitted by the PS, to add Article 58. o -A— Combating poverty among the elderly. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] The vote is followed by the vote on the proposal 972 - C submitted by the PSD for the addition of Article 58. o -A — Payment of pensions. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS and BE, votes in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the CH and the IL and abstentions of the PCP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We shall vote on proposal 947 - C, submitted by the PSD, to add Article 71. o -A— Exceptional scheme for the exemption of social security contributions on the islands of Flores and Corvo. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the CH and the IL were rejected.]] We turn to Article 72. o — Amounts of participation by local authorities in State taxes. We shall proceed to the vote on the proposal 233 - C submitted by the CFP, in the part in which Article 72 ( 1 ) ( a ) is amended. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, the CFP, the NAP, the ENP and the Member of Parliament registered Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD, the CDS-PP, the CH and the IL.]] We now vote on proposal 1042 - C1, submitted by the PS, in the part in which Article 72 ( 1 ( a ) is amended. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, votes against the PSD, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the PAN and the ENP, and abstentions against BE, CH, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] The vote on Article 72 ( a ) shall be adversely affected. The proposal of the law. We proceed with the vote on proposal 233 - C submitted by the CFP, in the part in which Article 72 ( 1 ( b ) is amended. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and IL were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, ENP and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD, CDS-PP and CH.]] We shall vote on Article 72 ( 1 ( b ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PS were adopted against the PS, the CDS-PP, the PAN and the IL and abstained from BE, the PCP, the PEV, the CH and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We turn to the vote on proposal 233 - C submitted by the CFP, in the part in which Article 72 ( 1 ( c ) is amended. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and IL were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, ENP, CH and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD and CDS-PP abstentions.]] We shall now vote on proposal 1042 - C1, submitted by the PS, in the part in which Article 72 ( 1 ( c ) is amended. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, the votes against the PS, the PCP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira were adopted, against the PSD and the NAP and with abstentions from BE, CDS-PP, CH and IL.]] The vote on Article 72 ( c ) shall be adversely affected. The proposal of the law. The vote on Article 72 ( d ) shall follow. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of the PS and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP, the NAP, the CH and the IL and abstentions of BE, the PCP and the ENP.]] We now vote on the body of Article 72 ( 1 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, CDS-PP, PAN and IL and abstentions against BE, PCP, PEV, CH and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira were adopted.]] We shall proceed to the vote on Article 72 ( 2 ). The proposal of the law. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes in favour of the PS, votes against the PSD and PAN and abstentions against BE, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the ENP, the CH, the IL and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We shall vote on Article 72 ( 3 ). The proposal of the law. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes in favour of PS, votes against PSD, PAN and IL and abstentions against BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PEV, CH and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] The vote is followed by the vote on proposal 233 - C submitted by the CFP, in the part in which Article 72 ( 4 ) is amended. The proposal of the law. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS and IL, votes in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and CH and abstentions from PSD, CDS-PP and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We shall vote on proposal 1042 - C1, submitted by the PS, in the part in which Article 72 ( 4 ) is amended. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, the votes against the PS, the PCP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira were adopted, against the PSD and the NAP and with abstentions from BE, CDS-PP, CH and IL.]] Article 72 ( 4 ). the bill is damaged. We shall proceed to the vote on Article 72 ( 5 ). o. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of the PS and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PSD, the PAN and the IL and with abstentions from BE, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the ENP and the CH.]] We shall vote on proposal 1042 - C1, submitted by the PS, in the part in which it amends Article 72 ( 6 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of the PS and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PSD and the PAN and abstains from BE, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the ENP, the CH and the IL.]] Article 72 ( 6 ). the bill is damaged. We shall proceed to the vote on Article 72 ( 7 ). o. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes in favour of PS, votes against PSD, PAN and IL and abstentions against BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PEV, CH and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We shall vote on proposal 1042 - C2, submitted by the PS, in the part where paragraph 8 is added to Article 72. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of the PS, votes against the PSD and the NAP and abstentions against BE, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the ENP, the CH, the IL and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We shall vote on Article 77. o — Obligations assumed by municipalities in the process of decentralization of competences. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, votes against the BE, the PCP, the CDS-PP and the ENP and abstentions from the PSD, the PAN, the CH, the IL and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We shall vote on Article 78 ( 1 ) to ( 3 ). o — Funds available and institutions with late payments in the local subsector. [[Subject to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of PS, BE, PCP, PAN, ENP and MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from PSD, CDS-PP, CH and IL.]] We shall vote on Article 78 ( 4 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PSD and abstains from BE, CDS-PP, CH and IL.]] We shall proceed to the vote on Article 78 (5) and (6). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from PSD, BE, CDS-PP, CH and IL were adopted.]] We shall vote on Article 78 ( 7 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PCP and the ENP and abstentions against the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, CH and IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira were adopted.]] We shall vote on proposal 1057 - C by the PS amending Article 78 ( 8 ). The proposal of the law. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the CFP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and with abstentions from PSD, BE, CDS-PP, CH and IL.]] Article 78 ( 8 ). the bill is damaged. We shall vote on Article 79 ( 1 ) and ( 2 ). o — Reduction of late payments. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from PSD, BE, CDS-PP, CH and IL were adopted.]] We shall vote on proposal 944 - C, tabled by the NAP, amending Article 79 ( 3 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD, CDS-PP and IL.]] We shall vote on Article 79 ( 3 ) and ( 4 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from PSD, BE, CDS-PP, CH and IL were adopted.]] We shall vote for the whole of Article 80. o — Payment to concessionaires arising from judicial or arbitral decisions or rescue of concession contracts. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the CFP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and the PSD, BE, the CDS-PP, the CH and the IL.]] We shall vote on Article 83 (1), (2) and (3). o — Financial transfers under decentralization and delegation of powers. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN, CH and IL were adopted.]] We shall vote on Article 83 ( 4 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, votes against the BE, the PCP, the CDS-PP and the ENP and abstentions from the PSD, the PAN, the CH, the IL and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We shall vote on Article 83 ( 5 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PCP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN, CH and IL.]] We shall vote on Article 83 (6) and (7). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against BE, PCP, CDS-PP and ENP and PSD, PAN, CH, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira were adopted with votes in favour.]] Let us vote on Rule 84. o — Financial aid and technical and financial cooperation. Mr. João Oliveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u122	Mr President, I would like to request that all other articles be voted on together except for paragraph 2 ( a ).
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u123	Let us then begin by voting Article 84 ( a ) ( 2 ). The proposal of the law. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of the PS and the PAN, with votes against the BE, the PCP, the ENP, the CH and the IL and with abstentions from the PSD, the CDS-PP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] Let us now vote on the remaining articulation of Article 84. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira, the vote against the IL and the abstentions from the PSD, BE, CDS-PP and CH.]] We shall vote on Article 85. o — Accounting systems to be applied by local government entities. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PCP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN, CH and IL.]] Let us vote on Rule 88. o — Urgent and unsatisfied expenditure. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PS, the PS, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira, the vote against the CH and abstains from BE, the CDS-PP and the IL.]] We shall now vote in full on Article 89. o — Settlement of Polis companies. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PSD, PCP and PAN, ENP and MP not included Joacine Katar Moreira and Abstaining from BE, CDS-PP, CH and IL.]] We shall proceed to the vote on Rule 92. o — Loans from municipalities for housing and urban rehabilitation operations. Let us begin by voting together on paragraphs 1 and 2 of that article of the bill. [[Subject to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of PS, BE, PCP, PAN, ENP and MP not included Joacine Katar Moreira, IL and PSD, CDS-PP and CH abstentions.]] We shall now vote on Article 92 (3) and (4). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of the PS, the NAP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira, the votes against the PCP, the ENP and the IL and the abstentions from PSD, BE, CDS-PP and CH.]] With no objection, we shall vote in full Article 93. o — Debts resulting from the recovery of areas and equipment affected by fires or other exceptional circumstances. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, ENP, CH and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and CDS-PP and IL abstentions.]] We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 94. o — EIB line PT 2020 - Authorities. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the CFP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and the PSD, BE, the CDS-PP, the CH and the IL.]] Let us now vote on Article 96. o — Deduction of transfers to local authorities. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, CDS-PP and PAN and Abstaining from BE, PCP, PEV, CH, IL and Member not registered Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 97. o — Agreements on the regularization of debts of local authorities. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, can you be voted in full?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u124	Mr President, the proposal from the CFP must be voted on alone.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u125	We shall then vote on proposal 236 - C1, submitted by the CFP, in the part in which it replaces Article 97 ( 1 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, ENP, CH, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD, CDS-PP and PAN abstentions.]] Mrs. Members, I ask whether we can now vote on Article 97. the whole.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u126	We can vote together from paragraph 1 to paragraph 9, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u127	Let us then vote on Article 97 ( 1 ) to ( 9 ), including Article 97 ( 9 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PS, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, CH and IL were adopted.]] We turn to the vote on proposal 236 - C2, tabled by the CFP, in the part in which Article 97 ( 10 ) is amended. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the CDS-PP and the IL were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP, the ENP, the CH and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the PSD and the PAN.]] We shall proceed to the vote on Article 97 ( 10 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PCP and the ENP and abstentions against the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN, CH, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira were adopted.]] We shall now vote on proposal 236 - C2, tabled by the CFP, in the part in which Article 97 ( 11 ) is amended. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the CDS-PP and the IL were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP, the ENP, the CH and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the PSD and the PAN.]] We shall vote on Article 97 ( 11 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PCP and the ENP and abstentions against the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN, CH, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira were adopted.]] With no objection, we shall vote together in Article 97 ( 12 ) and ( 13 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of the PS and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH and IL.]] We shall vote on proposal 236 - C2, submitted by the CFP, in the part in which Article 97 ( 14 ) is amended. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and IL were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, ENP, CH and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD, CDS-PP and PAN abstentions.]] We shall now vote on Article 97 ( 14 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PCP and the ENP and abstentions against the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN, CH, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira were adopted.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u128	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u129	Is it for what purpose, Member of the Commission?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u130	Mr President, it is to inform me that, although I was present at the beginning of the vote, I was unable to register and I would like this to be taken into account.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u131	Mr Jerónimo de Sousa is thus being registered. I wonder if there are more cases to be recorded.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u132	Mr. President, I'm not sure if I'm registered...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u133	Mrs. Isabel Moreira is now registered. Mr Pedro do Carmo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u134	It is for the same purpose, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u135	All right.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u136	Mr President, it is for the same purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u137	All right.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u138	Mr President, it is for the same purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u139	All right. Are there any more cases?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u140	It is for the same purpose, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u141	All right. We still have the ladies. Mr Nuno Sá, PS, Ana Paula Vitorino, PS, Inês de Sousa Real, PAN, and João Cotrim de Figueiredo, IL.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u142	Mr President, for the same purpose too.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u143	Be registered. We still have the ladies. PS Norberto Patinho and João Azevedo Castro. I think we've got more than 230 now. Ladies and gentlemen... [[Laughing.]] Do any more Members want to speak up?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u144	Mr President, for the same purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u145	Be registered. We have reached the end of the second item on the agenda. We will continue the debate on the speciality of the draft budget law and Vice-President José Manuel Pureza will do my best to replace me. I am grateful for the joint work and the support of the various sides for these votes, which have been very complicated. Thank you all very much. [[At the moment, Vice President José Manuel Pureza took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u146	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, very good morning. I would like to ask you one minute for the Bureau to organize the next item on the agenda and we will start again immediately. So, there is no interval, we will resume immediately. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u147	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen... Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for your patience. We will continue the debate, in the specialty, of the Bill No 5 / XIX/ 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves the State budget for 2020. The proposal for an addendum submitted by the NAP is under discussion in Article 99. o -A — License for family restructuring in the context of domestic violence crime. To this end, Mrs. Cristina Rodrigues of the NAP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u148	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in the 21st century, we continue, shamefully, to debate the scourge of domestic violence. Much if you've spoken, you haven't done enough. In 2019, 35 were the fatal victims of domestic violence, more than 7 in 2018. We are facing a crime with serious and profound repercussions on the family, professional and social plans of the victims concerned. It is therefore important that, in a scenario of fear, insecurity and violence, there are efficient and fast responses. We therefore propose that victims of domestic violence benefit from a presumption of economic insufficiency so that they can immediately be appointed a lawyer. In addition, if it is necessary to leave the residence, they may benefit from a family restructuring allowance which allows them to be absent 10 days away from work, with social security pay. The aim is to enable the reorganization of their lives and the immediate removal of the aggressor without loss of labour rights. These measures are of the most fundamental justice and a relevant contribution to the protection of victims. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u149	Mrs Elza Pais from the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u150	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the NAP's proposal to remove victims of domestic violence from the attacker, through a leave to leave work for 10 days, seems to us absolutely meaningless. Of course, due to the ignorance of the victimization process: you are not victimized for one day, you are not victimized for 10 days, sometimes you are victimized for years and years or even for life. Victims are not disabled people for work and protection responses do not go through the removal of work, but, yes, because they have work. The responses to this level are a set of measures which are already included in the law, such as the granting of compensation in serious situations of economic deficiency, support for renting, allocation of social fire or other equivalent mode, allocation of social income of treated insertion, i.e. with an urgent nature, justification for lack of work, change of working time or, even, the workplace. I would also like to say that prevention and combating domestic violence and the protection of victims is an absolute priority of this governance, it is well included in this State budget with more than EUR 3, 9 million, with an increase of 137 % compared to 2017, with the strengthening of teleassistion with more than 3,500 protective measures. The protection of victims is not resolved with the absence of work, but with training, with integration, with more prevention to go to the root of the issue, eradicating genderistic behavior rooted in our relational culture. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u151	We moved on to the discussion of the proposal for an addendum, the PSD, an article 100. o -A — Time accounting for the calculation of the reform of fisheries professionals. To that end, you have the floor of Mrs Carla Barros of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u152	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, on the reform of fishermen, the PSD presents this proposal for an addition to the State budget, because once again the Socialist Party and the Government have forgotten to solve the problems of fishermen in social security.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u153	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u154	There are errors in the accounting of working time, there are errors in the accounting of discount time, which causes errors in the allocation of requests for reform which are often denied and miscalculated. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the fisheries sector is a sector which, of course, has difficulties of labour attraction and it is assumed that the State and, in this particular case, social security are not blockers of this development and of the social protection of its workers. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u155	For an intervention on the proposed addendum of the PSD, Article 101. the -A - Adjustment of the Cooperation Commitment for the Social and Solidarity Sector in 2020, has the floor Mr. Pedro Rodrigues, of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u156	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Prime Minister and the Government have fully stated that this is a continuity budget. In fact, in terms of the social economy, this is a continuity budget in deresponsibility of support for the most deprived in our community, it is a continuity budget in the underfinancing of the social economy and it is a continuity budget in the abandonment of the areas in which social sector entities intervene. Indeed, Mr President, the Government is waiting for the IPSS (private institutions of social solidarity) and the mercys to replace the State, which support the most needy in our community, our elderly, our young people, but are never available to solve the problems that the mercys and IPSS face. That is why Mr President, the PSD is presenting in this House a proposal for an amendment to the State budget to stipulate the automatic revision of the cooperation complement for the social and solidarity sector, thus ensuring compensation for the increase in costs resulting from the increase in the national minimum wage. We know that this budget is of continuity, but we cannot continue to expect the government to expect IPSS and mercy to replace the State and that the State will continue to fail with IPSS and mercy. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u157	We move on to the discussion of Article 116. o — Granting of loans and other active operations. Mr. Hugo Carneiro, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u158	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members, on loans to the Resolution Fund and any injections into the New Bank, the PSD is not prepared to give an empty check to the Government...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u159	Isn't he? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u160	... without being able to submit a proposal that contradicts that same blank check which the Budget allows you to.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u161	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u162	The PSD argues that the State's contractual commitments must be fulfilled in full and only those commitments.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u163	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u164	The PSD, in its proposal, proposes that the threshold of new loans to the Resolution Fund be clearly limited with a view to new injections into the New Bank. New capital injections will always have to come to this House. The Government has the legal duty, the political duty to ensure that this possible public money to lend to the Resolution Fund will be returned. We are sure that our proposal will not merit the PS's disapproval unless they have something to hide from this Parliament. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u165	For the discussion of the proposal for an addendum, the Left Block, Article 127. The resolution fund has the floor of Mrs Mariana Mortágua.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u166	Mr President, last year the Government injected three times more capital into the New Bank than it had foreseen in the Budget. In other words, because of the New Bank the Minister of Finance took over 800 million more to the deficit and no one heard a pio! It was more than a VAT of electricity downloaded into the public accounts. The goal of the end of the year has surpassed the forecast and we have heard neither dramas nor victimisations by the government. So the choice is simple. Those who understand that it is normal to take the deficit much more than was expected, then there is no problem: they do not vote for any proposal or vote for the PSD and the NAP proposal, which will check for up to 850 million for the New Bank. Anyone who believes that there can be no other capital injection in the New Bank without coming to the Assembly of the Republic to be voted on here by each party, votes on the proposal of the Left Block. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u167	On this point, Mr. Under-Secretary of State and Finance, Ricardo Mourinho Félix, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u168	Mr. President, the sale of the New Bank, as well as the recapitalisation of the CGD ( General Deposit Box ) were fundamental for the recovery of the country's credibility and for the reduction of interest that allowed, by reducing interest expenditure, to increase social expenditure. The sale of the New Bank was made in clear conditions. Nothing has ever been hidden and we have come to this House and to the Commission to explain the whole sales process and the conditions under which it has been made. There is a limit of EUR 3890 million that the Resolution Fund can inject into the New Bank; there is an annual limit for the value that the State can lend to the Resolution Fund, if it has no other means, which is EUR 850 million per year. What we presented in the State Budget for 2020 is nothing more than what we presented in the State Budgets for 2018 and 2019. There's nothing new about this. In addition, there are a set of control mechanisms, from the auditors'point of view, the Resolution Fund Monitoring Committee, the verification officers, independent of the New Bank and its administration, the Banco de Portugal and the ECB ( European Central Bank ) as supervisors, and also the special audit first requested by the Government and then legislated in the previous Parliament, in this House. So all the elements are gathered here. In view of everything that exists, we believe that the proposals do not add anything to what already exists and we also consider that it is essential to ensure the verification and control of injections, but it is also essential to ensure that contracts are fully complied with. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u169	We shall then proceed to the discussion of the proposed addendum to Article 135. o -A. To that end, Mrs Mónica Quintela, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u170	Mr President, justice accessible to all is one of the fundamental pillars of the democratic rule of law. The Budget provides for an increase in IAS ( indexing social support), which will entail an increase in judicial costs by direct indexing. The government demands access to justice, but it wants to increase costs. This is the reality! Therefore, the PSD proposes to add an article 135. o -A, in order to halt the headlong increase in the legal costs claimed by the Government. This proposal is fundamental to preventing justice from becoming more and more a luxury asset. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u171	Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, of the PAN, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u172	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. More than 50% of families have pets today. Whereas 12 % of the expenditure of the family aggregate relates to the food and health care provided to their animals, as well as to the thousands of abandoned animals — official data speak to us of more than 22 000 animals per year received by the official collection centres, the NAP considers that it is of the most basic justice that zoophiles, which have both replaced the State in this role, by hosting abandoned or errant animals, can in some way benefit from the refund of VAT and create a supplement to allocate to families in situations of socio-economic shortage, so that they can care for their animals. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u173	Mr Hugo Costa also speaks of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u174	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, today we recognize that housing policy is one of the main challenges for the future, the defense of a fundamental principle of the social state. Yes, contrary to what some try to say here, we are very proud to defend this social state with housing policy. over many years, the Portuguese right political believed, naively, that the market solved everything. Nothing more false! Without action there are no results. State intervention is needed to ensure compliance with the right to housing, in a manner equal to all Portuguese. contrary to what has been said here, one of the main deficits in Portugal is even having little public housing. In the last legislature, it was possible to watch a convergence on the left that aimed the approval of the Housing Bases Law. And in this debate of the specialty, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group wants to go further and therefore presented rules as more words for IHRU and Porta 65. We believe that the State must intervene to ensure the right to housing, whether in the growth of the public housing park or in the supply to the lease market. With regard to the lease market, everyone recalls what the right left us of inheritance: the so-called "law of evictions". [[PSD Member Protest Duarte Marques.]] In force since 2012, the New Urban Rent Scheme (NRAU) established that income before 1990 would be updated, with a transitional regime of five years. Meanwhile, in 2017, on a proposal from the PS, this scheme was extended until November 2020. Nor would the right here recognise your mistake and voted against this proposal. In the current context of the housing market, where market liberalisation, together with phenomena such as visasgold or local housing, has triggered prices, it is crucial to prevent the immediate application of NRAU. The social impact, in our view, would be very serious. It is necessary to ensure the effective investment in public housing policies that this government is printing, placing housing once and for all as a priority. in this context, we highlight programs such as 1. the law and we propose the extension of the transition regime for another two years, a measure that we consider to be the most basic justice. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u175	Mrs Rosário Gambôa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u176	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, the regional and local social communication, by its implementation in the territory and by its proximity to the communities, is a crucial factor in social and territorial cohesion, is as such a crucial factor in the quality of our democracy, encouraging the knowledge and participation of citizens in the public sphere. It is therefore important to strengthen support mechanisms for local and regional media bodies. It is in this sense that the Socialist Party submits the proposal to extend the scope of the institutional publicity of the State, in order to pretend that a greater number of institutional campaigns, which were previously directed exclusively to the national press, can also, in part, be directed to the regional and local press. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u177	Thank you very much, Mrs. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u178	The Socialist Party therefore advocates the use of these means in relation to... I'm sorry for the delay, Mr. President, I didn't realize the time. This is the sense which the Socialist Party considers crucial in implementing and adopting measures for the local press. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u179	Madam Member, I am sorry, because I rushed to thank you before you finished your speech. Mr Nuno Fazenda has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u180	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members, tourism in Portugal is the main economic export activity, representing around 18, 7% of total exports of goods and services, and has recorded sustained growth in the last 10 years, with particular emphasis in the last 4 years. This growth has occurred throughout the territory, in fact, the less developed regions touristly were the ones that presented the highest growth rates. This results in several reasons. Of course, because we are faced with territories that offer unique, natural and cultural tourist resources and with authenticity; on the other hand, because many entrepreneurs have been making qualifying investments of the tourist offer; finally, and no less important, this is also due to public policies and initiatives that have favoured tourism in the interior. For example, for the first time, in the last legislature, a line of support was created for the value of tourism in the interior that supported more than 90 million euros of projects in the interior of Portugal. But other measures have been taken, and already in this Parliament. Yesterday, several incentives were made public to support investment in low-density territories. In particular, I refer to the Programme + CO3SO ( CONSTRUCTURE, Cocretize and Conssolidate Synergies and Opportunities ) and the Programme Work in the Interior, with specific funds and incentives for the interior of Portugal. But despite the tourist growth that has occurred in recent years, the truth is that about 90 % of tourism activity is still concentrated on the coast. Therefore, what is intended with this proposal is that the Government, in particular through Portugal's Tourism, should develop a specific campaign for the promotion of tourism in the interior of Portugal. In summary, the objective of this proposal is that the focus on the interior is reinforced, giving it greater visibility and more tourist projection, in order to have a more balanced and more cohesioned country. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u181	For the discussion of the proposal for an addendum, of the PS, of Article 135. o-C — Enlargement of student passes has the floor on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mrs Joana Sá Pereira.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u182	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Socialist Party has made a way to support the tariff reduction for students of all study cycles, promoting access to education without barriers, dishonouring the families of this cost and, at the same time, encouraging collective mobility, thus reducing the dependence of fossil fuels. Thus, in 2008 with the creation of the 4 /NP 18 Pass, and in 2009 with the sub23 Pass, the Socialist Party Government provided a 50% discount on the value of the whole tariff for all these young people. The guarantee of the right to education is also a guarantee of the right to mobility of students, and we socialists believe that the same State that promotes the democratization of access to education should also contribute to overcoming existing economic and social inequalities. Therefore, we strongly objected when in 2012 the PSD government cut off this important social support for students and their families, adding to so many other investments, robbing access to education in our country. The Socialist Party, Mr. Members, it has never failed to call for the promotion of qualifications and the strengthening of social support for students at all levels of education. For this reason, we were by the left side in the State Budgets for 2017 and 2018, resonating, even with the abstention of the PSD, steps 4 /NP 18 and sub23, in its original version, respecting all those who today need it most. We understand that it is of the most fundamental justice that this support is extended to the approximately 12,000 students who attend professional higher technical courses and courses of technological specialization, which are now excluded. For the construction of a social state with equal opportunities, without economic and social barriers, which also follow today's climate requirements, they will always count on the Socialist Party. We also hope to be able to count on all the benches. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u183	To intervene in the debate on the proposal of the PS to add an article 135. o-H — Multiple Purpose Hydro-Agricultural Use of Pisão, has the floor Mr. Ricardo Pinheiro of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u184	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the great essence of governance is to understand how we are able to value and benefit most of the regions of the territory. The water use of Pisão has absolutely strategic importance at the national level. The Tejo has a problem of regularizing its tails, in order of 1000 million cubic metres; the Alentejo can thus correspond to a project that helps regulate the levels of the Tejo tails and also manages, through a hydro-agricultural exploitation project, to promote the production of 150 MW in photovoltaic. It is extremely important to realize the relevance of public policies and public models to support an investment of EUR 200 million, with which we promote the development of a region not only from the point of view of decarbonisation to the national quota but also from the point of view of the development of a low-density territory, in this case the Alentejo. We will create a model where all territorial management instruments are aligned with environmental policies, with the application of water resources and all that is good techniques for the use of all agricultural references for the production of wealth in these territories, is extremely important. It is very important that examples such as this can contribute, from the point of view of economic sustainability, to the financing of the project itself, with the sale of electricity but also with the development of the water perimeter, as is the case with this hydroagricultural development project of the Crato area, in Alto Alentejo. It is important to think of public projects that have two major aspects: economic sustainability and environmental sustainability. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice-President Antonio Filipe.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u185	We have moved on to the discussion of the proposal of the BE of adding Article 138. o -A— Mission structure for the implementation of the International Decade of Afro-descendants. Mrs Beatriz Dias of BE has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u186	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, good day to all. In Portugal, citizens and Afro-descendants, gypsies and other racialized communities face barriers of all kinds resulting from racial, economic and social prejudices and discrimination which are deeply rooted in society, as well as in public and private institutions. And it's not just the Left Block that says it. Several organizations, national and international, identify that the resistance and obstacles to the elimination of racial discrimination is due to the prevalence of racist attitudes and stereotypes in society, an insufficient legal framework and a lack of strategic policy guidance for the development and implementation of concrete measures by the State. The Left Block does not naturalize this reality. Combating it by promoting public policies to overcome it in three axes: promoting equality and combating racism, by empowering and strengthening the Commission for Equality and Against Racial Discrimination, contracting and training of sociocultural mediators and creating a mission structure for the implementation of the International Decade of Afro-descendants; defending the rights of migrant persons, creating a mission structure for the recovery of dependencies in the SEF (Foreign and Borders Service) and reviewing its rates; improving the reception and inclusion of refugees, promoting the increase of the refugee reception period and the strengthening of the Portuguese Programme for All. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u187	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us move on to the discussion of Article 139. o — Legislative authorisation under the Investment Residence Authorisation Scheme, and proposals for amendments thereto. Mr. José Manuel Pureza has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u188	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, a country that takes it seriously does not sell residence permits. A country which seriously places a priority on combating corruption and money laundering does not sponsor a market for residence authorisations.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u189	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u190	This is what is at stake, and not anything else, in the admission or not of the golden visas. The proposal from the Left Block is clear: the figure of the golden visas is removed from our legal order. Only then will we be fully coherent in the fight against economic crime. It is the European Parliament that says this, and I quote: 'the potential economic benefits of the golden visa schemes do not compensate for the serious risks of security, money laundering and tax evasion they present'. It therefore calls on the European Parliament, the Member States, so that, and I quote again, « they gradually revoke and speed up all citizenship regimes by investment and residence by investment activity ». The proposal presented by the Government in this Budget does not conflict with the essentials: it calls for legislative authorization to change minimum investment values and to create jobs associated with visasgold and to facilitate investment within the country. What a country that takes seriously is not to soften the golden visa regime nor to withdraw the gold visas from Lisbon to spread them all over the country, is to eliminate them on behalf of the fight against money laundering and on behalf of decency. That's what the Left Block here proposes. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u191	You have the floor, too, to speak in the context of this article, Mr Carlos Pereira, of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u192	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members, it is more or less consensual that the country needs external investment. Moreover, it is also known that the visasgold regime is not exclusive to Portugal ; more than 20 countries have this regime, such as Spain, the United Kingdom, France, Austria. All these countries have such schemes and, for example, Spain has, on average, in terms of attracting investment as a result of this instrument, around EUR 1000 million of investment per year, while Portugal has around EUR 600 million. This is, in fact, an important instrument for attracting investment. in this sense, the Socialist Party, after a fine evaluation that it made about the evolution of this regime,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u193	That's fine! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u194	... it considered it essential to introduce this legislative authorisation, which has above all three aspects which deserve to be underlined. First of all, it is important to maintain and strengthen what is right, and which is very important, such as the question of business investment — productive investment —...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u195	Productive? Oh, my God! You're kidding!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u196	... introducing the issue of job creation, which I think is very relevant. Secondly, it is in some way necessary to redirect investment where it is necessary, particularly for low-density areas, but also for autonomous regions, which have less investment attractiveness. Finally, it is important to change what has a negative effect and which, in a way, is in the eyes of everyone, such as the excessive increase in house prices, which naturally causes price distortions and harms families and, in general, the Portuguese who live in urban centres. That is why this legislative authorization is important and, from our point of view, to be approved, it will significantly improve this regime. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u197	Mr André Silva, of the NAP, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u198	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members, I would like to speak of two evils that discredit the country. The first is the programme of golden visas which, according to several international bodies, makes Portugal a real automatic laundry: there is a certain volume of investment in real estate and, automatically, without any control of the origin of money, the right of unrestricted access to the Schengen area is gained. It is the best of both worlds: run away to justice and taxes, at the same time that money can be washed away. It is a myth that the golden visas have brought about the development of the country's productive economy: only 213 jobs have been created in 7 years, 16 companies have emerged and the housing price has gone off. The only possible way is to follow the recommendations of the European Parliament and repeal the programme of golden visas. To send the buyers of the golden visas to the interior, as the Socialist Party intends, is to launch metastases of a cancer that has to end. The second problem is the non-normal resident regime, an unfair tax regime, with a tax dumping logic, which makes our country a real tax paradise and which costs EUR 550 million per year, which could be channelled to improve people's lives. in this Budget, the choice is between leaving everything in the same and continuing to let the name of the Country continue to be discredited in cases such as Luanda Leaks or pursue a path that puts the end point in these two evils that nothing good has brought to the Country. The choice is yours, gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u199	Mrs Cecilia Meireles from the CDS-PP now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u200	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Many of those who now cry out against the vissgolds are precisely those who boasted and proclaimed the good economic results which, to a substantial extent, were allowed by the golden visas. They may call it serious, but the name of it is hypocrisy, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u201	I would like to leave three telegraphic questions for the Socialist Party and for the Government and the response depends on the CDS's vote. First, the PS proposal speaks in ICD (intermunicipal communities) of the interior and not in territories with low population density. Why? Are they available to change that? Secondly, positive discrimination of the interior is something different from completely ending with the possibility of golden visas in the metropolitan areas. Are they available to make a positive discrimination from the interior, without completely ending with the visasgold in the metropolitan areas? Thirdly, the expectations are, I believe, waiting for another year. Are these going to be affected by the approval of the new regime or not? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u202	We move on to the discussion of Article 140. o — Admissions to security forces and services, and proposals for the addition of Article 140. o -A. Mrs Ana Miguel Santos of the PSD has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u203	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, the Portuguese Armed Forces have seen a clear reduction in their effectiveness in recent years. currently, the number is far below the 32 000 military already proposed in 2013. This reduction undermines the fulfilment of the missions assigned to the Armed Forces. This is a structural problem which must be treated in an integrated way and which cannot be postponed any longer. The valorization of persons and the military institution must be an effective priority of government action. Therefore, the PSD presented a proposal for an amendment to ensure that no soldier increases less than the national minimum wage. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u204	The valorization of persons and the bet on a greater attractiveness of the military institution should be a priority of government action. Thus, it is important to give a clear signal to young people that choosing a military career is a viable bet for their future. [[PSD applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President José Manuel Pureza took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u205	We will continue with the discussion of proposals for an addendum to Article 140. o -A. Mr Sandra Cunha, from the Left Block, has the floor to speak on the proposal for an addendum to Article 140. o -A — Admissions to the Judicial Police.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u206	Mr President, the inability to balance exits and admissions and to print justice in career progression rules have made security forces and services obsolete and today we have an effective old age, with an unbalanced hierarchical structure and with workers unable to exercise their right of exit because they have no substitute for them. A strategic vision of the future must be accompanied by concrete goals. Therefore, the Left Block proposes the admission by 2020 of 2600 elements : 1500 for the PSP, 1100 for the GNR. in this equation, the Judicial Police ( PJ ) cannot be left aside. Year after year, budget allocations have been decreasing and depriving PJ of adequate human and technical resources for an effective fight against corruption and economic crime. The Left Block presents proposals to break this chronic sub-financing: the opening of competitions in 2020 for the admission of 100 inspectors, 50 financial experts, 20 criminalists and 25 security and, furthermore, the strengthening of the funds allocated to the PJ in 2 million and 500 thousand euros for technological means of combating cybercrime, maintenance of critical systems and renewal of the car fleet. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u207	To intervene on the proposal for an addendum to Article 140. o -A — Amendment to Decree-Law No 296/2009 of 14 October 2009 has the floor Mr Diogo León of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u208	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, different members of the Government, the increase in the remuneration that the Armed Forces recruits take over over the weeks that constitute the basic instruction will be another positive step towards the solid road that has been built around the attractiveness of military service and the strengthening of recruitment, that, which has merited particular attention from the Governments of the Socialist Party, in particular with the revisions of the special contract regime and the incentive regulation and with various measures scheduled for action plan for the professionalization of the Armed Forces, which aim to increase revenue and increase the actual effectiveness. Moreover, at the hearing of the speciality of this Budget, the Government expressed the political will to step up the debate and which is in line with the strategy of valuing the military condition and the human resources of the national defence which the former and the current Government of the Socialist Party have continued. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u209	We have moved on to the discussion of the proposed addendum, the PSD, of Article 148. o -A — Support for agricultural enterprises affected by climate phenomena. Mrs Emília Cerqueira, PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u210	Mr President, I should like to begin by congratulating the honourable Members. Members of the Government. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, this proposal from the PSD aims to support agricultural enterprises through the creation of a support scheme — in particular the exemption from contributions to social security and credit lines — to individual farmers and producer organisations that suffer production breaks resulting from adverse climate events. It is a proposal directed towards the agricultural sector, the rural world and the preservation of rural and forest areas. This proposal aims to maintain agricultural activity in our territory, either in the form of family or commercial production, by mitigating the effects of climate change on agricultural production, by means of mechanisms supporting national farmers, in the face of adverse climate effects, for example by assisting in the treasury of small and medium-sized enterprises or in the reconstruction of the means of production destroyed by storms or droughts. With this amendment, the PSD seeks greater support for the rural world, so forgotten by this government, in order to counter this systematic abandonment of such a vital part of our economy and territory. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u211	With no further inscriptions on this point, we shall proceed to the discussion of the proposed addendum, of the ENP, of Article 151. o -A — Strengthening human resources for the conservation of nature and biodiversity. Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Greens has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u212	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Despite the strengthening which, on a proposal from the Greens, has occurred in recent years at the level of professionals for the conservation of nature and biodiversity, yet human resources remain very short of what is needed to ensure the minimum requirements, particularly within the National Network of Classified Areas. thus, it is necessary to provide the public structures, and from the outset the ICNF (Instituto da Conservação da Nature and the Forests Conservation Institute) with the necessary means, in particular through the hiring of nature vigilantes, operational assistants, superior technicians and forest flavourers. It is therefore necessary to take visible steps to recover professionals who can contribute to ensuring the protection of our ecosystems and a natural heritage that does not need to be lost and create the conditions to value. in this sense, The Greens propose, in the context of this article, the hiring of more than 25 nature watchers, 75 operational assistants, 100 superior technicians and 250 forest skiers. [[PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u213	We now move on to the debate of the proposal, of the BE, of the addition of Article 152. o -A— Special contribution for the conservation of forest resources. Mr. Ricardo Vicente of the Left Block has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u214	Mr President, who has promoted forest monoculture and the uniformization of the landscape with species of rapid growth, such as the eucalyptus, must today be called upon to contribute to transform the forest so that it becomes more resilient to fires and climate change. The previous State budget provided for the creation of a rate in this sense, to discourage intensive monoculture and promote the diversification of forests. Faced with the Bloc with the absence of the fee in this State budget, the government justified that it was forgotten. The Left Block does not forget the responsibilities of this extractive industry, from cellulose to pellet production, which has the most visible face in the fires that run the country, but also in the pollution of the river Tejo, with illegal discharges. So we have recovered the proposal and now we expect the Socialist Party and the rest of the benches to vote in favour. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u215	We have entered into the discussion of the proposals of the CFP for the addition of Article 160. o -A. Mrs Alma Rivera from the PCP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u216	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As long as the CFP is fighting for any young person, regardless of their economic conditions, to gain access to higher education. Therefore, we have proposed again that we eliminate propines, rates and emoluments, ensuring, through budget, the total transfer of this value to the institutions. This is the only way to ensure free, democratic and quality public higher education for all. We also proposed that the value of the 2018 tips should be maintained for the purposes of calculating the stock exchange so that the stock exchange would not be affected by the reduction of the propines and that they would effectively serve to cope with all costs and not only to pay the tips. We also proposed that students with a disability equal to or greater than 60 % should immediately be entitled to a scholarship covering the value of propines, at any rate. A serious problem students feel is the lack of accommodation. Only 14 % of displaced students live in residence, with housing prices reaching exorbitant values known in several locations. In order for no student to be prevented from studying for not being able to pay a quarter and because a public response is urgent, we propose an increase of 15 million in the amount for the construction and requalification of residences. Meanwhile, since many scholarship students, who prove they need, continue without place at home, we propose an increase in the value of the accommodation supplement, which may mean a relief of more than 50 € in monthly expenses. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, these are concrete measures, which the CFP presents, which would make the difference, if they were approved here. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u217	We have moved on to the debate on the proposed additions to Article 161. o -A. Mrs Maria Begonha of the Socialist Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u218	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, the Socialist Party has chosen as a priority in this Budget the democratization of access and frequency in public higher education in Portugal. We choose as a priority the improvement of the qualifications and living conditions of students, fighting the cause of their difficulties with solutions to their obstacles and deepening the path we have already taken, but going further because we know where we want to go. We want to reach an increasingly universal and accessible public higher education so that no student will be excluded and all will have the freedom to follow their paths. Because we know where we want to reach, for what we have been fighting for since five Budgets, for the most strengthened and active role of the State in guaranteeing conditions of dignity and quality of life, which are indispensable for studying in Portugal, the PS is proud to present a set of proposals that are not a vulvacious or dispersed sign, represent a coherent evolution that we want permanent and without return to Portuguese students. in this budget, a decline of 20% in higher education will be enshrined and it is therefore the second consecutive time that, in this Parliament, a model of greater social justice is sought in the distribution of costs and charges with higher education, effectively reducing the costs of students and their families. But the PS went further in this Budget and we respond to the old dichotomy between propines and bags. The PS does not choose between one and the other and assumes its option to approve the downside of the tip by strengthening the weight of the scholarships and the direct and indirect social action in Portugal, because both are just and necessary causes. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In 2020, we advocate that the stock exchanges stop serving merely to pay the tips and that for the first time they constitute effective support for those who need it. It is 180 € that students will have their scholarship and that they did not have it before. It is a qualitative leap to be a country with the best of the two worlds — lower tips and more dignified bags. The objective of the PS is even the strengthening and greater justice and stability of social support in higher education. For this reason, we present automatic access to scholarships for students who have benefited from social action in secondary education, ensuring that the State does not fail them in that period; we advocate that all students with disabilities equal to or greater than 60% have free frequency in higher education; we propose to increase the housing supplement for students who reside in the municipalities with the highest housing costs in the country. If, today, we can go further, it is also in recognition of good policies, such as the creation of the National Housing Plan, which is contained in this Budget, which will double the number of beds in this legislature. We still have a huge, collective way to go. But from the PS's package of proposals on the democratization of access and frequency in higher education, we have only one conclusion: we will contribute to reducing the difficulties of students and their families, to improve and strengthen access to what is due them and to better live in Portugal and realize their life projects. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u219	Mr. Luís Monteiro, from the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u220	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, for the second consecutive year, this Parliament will approve the decline in the value of the propines and a set of measures that reinforce social action in higher education. Despite at no time the Socialist Party program, whether 2015, or 2019, to mention the reduction of the value of propines, we have achieved this achievement. It is an important step for all public higher education students. That's exactly what we're talking about. That is, when we talk about higher education that should be public, then it is not enough to say it, we need to build it every day. And building public higher education every day is not only ensuring that the poorest have access to a set of charity policies and that the richest pay not through a progressive system of taxes but also through user-payer logic. However, it is important to take steps at this time — as it would have been important a few years ago — to ensure the reduction of the value of the tips to its end, to ensure that we move on to the scope of the social action grants, from 16 to 18 IAS (indicating social support), to ensure the fixing of a maximum ceiling of the value of the tips for teachers, doctorates and postgraduates, to ensure greater funding for student residences and to ensure a strengthening of housing complement. I repeat, ladies and gentlemen. Members : strengthening public higher education is built - every day. It's not enough to say it. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u221	We are now discussing the proposal for an addendum to Article 161 of the PS. o-H — Long-term unemployed. Mr. João Paulo Pedrosa of the Socialist Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u222	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members, long-term unemployment has always been a concern for the Socialist Party and a priority for its governments for the risk of poverty. That is why, in 2016, in the budget of the State, we adopted an extraordinary measure of support for long-term unemployed who extended the monthly cash benefit for more than six months in the amount of 80 % of the previous and beyond the estimated and acquired time. It is therefore necessary that the long-term unemployed, who have exhausted all mechanisms of protection, unemployment benefit and social unemployment benefit, do not fall into disprotection and uncertainty. However, the Socialist Party wants to go further. Therefore, by 2020, the PS supports a socially useful path of protection by valuing the experience and knowledge of workers, thus giving them a horizon for the future and sustainability of their incomes. With this proposal, we want measures to be taken to avoid the discontinuity of protection and to strengthen employability and return to the labour market for long-term and long-term unemployed. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u223	We move on to the proposed addition of the PSD to Article 162. o -A — Increase of the accommodation supplement for students in student homes, and an article 162. o-B — Conditions for awarding scholarships. Mrs Margarida Balsairo Lopes has the floor of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u224	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members, the bet on education will certainly be a design of all parties with parliamentary representation. But it is not enough to make proclamations, it is fundamental to ensure that no one stays behind, it is fundamental to ensure that no one ceases to study because of lack of economic conditions.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u225	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u226	The PSD presented two proposals to ensure that social action actually reaches those who need it most, as is the case with pocket students who do not have a job in their homes. It is essential to strengthen support for renting a room.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u227	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u228	The PSD therefore defends the increase in the housing complement, because it remains the housing the greatest barrier to entry and frequency in higher education. More: For PSD, it is not acceptable for student support to be frozen since 2015. I recall that it was in 2015, with a PSD government, that there was the last increase in the eligibility threshold for the award of scholarships,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u229	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u230	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u231	... by making more than 5000 students who had not previously received social support. It is more than the time of the current government to increase this threshold by correcting, indeed, some injustices that continue to prevent thousands of students from applying for scholarships. For example, a young person who earns the national minimum wage is automatically excluded from being able to apply for a scholarship. The PSD gives today the opportunity to all parties with parliamentary representation, especially the Socialist Party, to go beyond the proclamations. by approving the two proposals presented by the PSD, one more step will be taken in the way of wagering in education, ensuring that no one is left behind. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u232	On the same subject, Mr. Secretary of State of Science, Technology and Higher Education, John Sobrinho Teixeira, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u233	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to point out that the measure of housing complement seems fair to us and must evolve — already last year has been increased — in order to reflect the cost of accommodation taking into account the various urban centres where higher education institutions are located. That is why a measure that goes in that direction seems fair to us. Generalizing the accommodation supplement for the whole country without taking into account the difference in the cost of living that exists in the various cities and regions is, purely and simply, to speculate and increase the income prices for those students who are not stockholders and who will have to pay much more for this interference. This should be done with wisdom and, above all, looking at the reality of cost per square meter in different regions and cities. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u234	We have moved on to the proposed additions of the CFP to Article 163. o -A. Mrs Ana Mesquita from the PCP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u235	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the universal, free and democratic public school of quality for all comes from our Constitution and it is a project that the PCP defends. That is why it is so important to advance to the freeness of school textbooks. In fact, this commitment has already been made for the free of charge of school textbooks of 1. the cycle is important, as it is important to move forward for free forms and didactic resources, which are proposed that the PCP presented in this State budget so that the situation in education evolves to better. When we talk about the fulfilment of the Constitution with regard to education, we need to have a plan. And the CFP proposes a national plan for the valorization of the public school that integrates the following measures: linkage of teachers and educators with 10 or more years of service until the end of 2020; linkage of teachers and educators with three or more years of service until the beginning of the school year 2023 / 2024; contract with effective link of at least 6000 assistants, administrative and technical specialists; legislative changes to the model of hiring teachers, negotiated with the unions; requalification of the school building; completion of works; elimination of architectural barriers; reduction of the number of students per class; acquisition and adequacy of teaching materials and equipment-pedagogue; improvement and expansion of the public education network, considering pre-school education, artistic and professional. It is also necessary to respect the rights of those who work and to comply with the full accounting of the time of service of these professionals. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u236	The discussion of the proposed addendum of the PSD, an article 163, follows. o -A— Extension of the free system and reuse of school textbooks and introduction of resource conditions. Mrs Cláudia André, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u237	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, because there are private schools that are not elite and because there are students who are lacking in private schools but who are not supported by social action school because of a prejudice that does not correspond to the whole reality of the country, we present several proposals in order to end the injustice of discrimination by the school rather than by the financial condition of each student. The government has chosen to give school textbooks to all public school students, rich or poor, and to no student of private professional schools or schools with association contracts, even if they are students with few possessions. This did not go unnoticed by the Ombudsman, who considers that the measure does not appear fair or fair and that no provenly lacking student should be excluded either in public school or in private school.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u238	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u239	Thus, because the measure is positive but socially blind, we propose that school textbooks continue to be free but for all students of compulsory education or, then, for all families whose annual gross incomes are less than €40,000, regardless of the schools students attend, covering more fairly the majority of families with lower incomes. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u240	We moved on to the discussion of the proposed addendum, the PSD, an article 163. o-B — Extension of the free system and reuse of school textbooks. Mr Porfirio Silva of the Socialist Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u241	Mr President, the PSD proposals for basic and secondary education have a single line. It is that the PSD only submits proposals against the constitutional responsibility to develop public school and against the constitutional orientation for the progressive freeness of education. Free school textbooks are a way of achieving the constitutional obligation of progressive free education, but the PSD is against, whether the free textbooks are just for some and we want them to continue to be for everyone. [[P.S.'s applause.]] They will say: “It’s ideology! » It is true, it is ideology, because the social state is not only for the most deprived, as any social-democrat anywhere in the world will know. Only the PSD doesn't know. It is ideology, yes, because we do not want some students to have the books of the state and others to have their own books. We do not want the issue of manuals to be part of the social walls within the school, we want everyone to have their manuals, because they are the manuals to which everyone is entitled. On the other hand, the PSD wants to extend free manuals to beneficiaries of social action from all private schools. Let us be clear: school social action, including the manual program, already covers students of private schools that are in these schools due to insufficient public network, as happens with association contracts. We cannot go back to the time when the President of the PSD said that where there was a private school, a public school should not be opened. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And, yes, once again, it's because of ideology that you beat us for public school. There is only freedom of choice in education because there is public school, where everyone is chosen and where they do not ask what their parents' income is and what their philosophy of life or political choices, as happens in other schools. [[PSD protests.]] That is why we continue to defend a public school for all and a social state for all, which we hoped the Social Democrats would understand. The problem is they lack social democrats in the PSD! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u242	On the same subject, Mrs Alexandra Vieira of the Left Block has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u243	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the freeness of the manuals is a two-year journey, started at the Lisbon Authority on the initiative of the Left Block and later adopted by the Government at national level also as a result of negotiations with the Left Block. [[PSD laughter.]] The measure is incorporated into the policy of returns of income to families and integrates into the constitutional precept of the free of charge of public school. What made free is that the commercial logic associated with the editing and production of manuals makes it difficult or impossible to reuse them because they are designed so that learning activities take place in this type of support. According to the Manual of Support for Reusing School Manuals, and until their design and design begin to observe other logics, it is essential that free manuals are new, in the specific case of 1. the cycle in view of the pedagogical process, the quality of the teaching material and, essentially, the rights of students and students to a learning in condition, in a universal, free and quality public school. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u244	Mrs. Members, let us turn to the debate on a proposal for Article 164. o -A, on the recovery of school canteens from public education and education establishments. Mrs Bebiana Cunha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u245	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, education has to be a priority for the government. There are examples of the abandonment and de-investment of the Ministry of Education, such as the Daniel Faria High School or the Pousa School, which are unacceptable, and therefore the NAP proposes that in 2020 the necessary works be carried out in these two schools. Educational action auxiliaries are fundamental elements in the proper functioning of schools and therefore we propose to review the current ratio of allocation of the number of educational action auxiliaries to respond to real needs. Also multidisciplinary teams cannot be dependent on future project funding. The NAP proposes the strengthening of 150 psychologists for public groups and schools. I would like to point out that there are numerous complaints about food in schools and the government cannot put children and young people at risk, so we propose the development of an integrated strategy of the Ministry of Education with the hiring of 15 nutritionists. Thus, inclusion has to become a reality from pre-school to higher education and therefore the NAP proposes an integrated and inclusive support network for students with specific needs, ensuring their follow-up in the transition to the labour market. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u246	To speak on behalf of the Government, Mr. Secretary of State for Education, Susana Amador.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u247	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, on the issues that have now been dealt with and on the proposals relating to education, I would like to say, on behalf of the Government, that one of our major programmatic objectives is, in fact, to raise the standards of public school quality, to modernize and value the whole school building and to share and divide responsibilities with local and regional authorities, aiming, in essence, at the quality and promotion of school success. As regards social action at school, it is good to note that both the previous government and the current government have strengthened in all budgets the appropriations for social action at school that has always been growing, and this year is no exception, with more than EUR 6, 7 million last year. over the last few years, school textbooks have occupied a significant financial expression but, above all, it is a constitutional imperative for us. It shall be free of charge, as provided for in Article 74. the Constitution of the Republic, calling us the constitutional legislator to defend and affirm a public school, universal and free of charge. School textbooks can never be a condition of appeal, proceed directly, I repeat, from our Constitution and we understand that the textbooks in a school that counts with everyone must be for everyone and therefore the proposals that return school textbooks only for some cannot be accepted by the government. I would also like to say that, in relation to the school park and the work done, more than 700 works are under way, or at the outset, worth more than EUR 770 million with Portugal 2020, with the State Budget and with the School Park, partnerships we have come to make and that throughout this legislature we want and we will strengthen with a view to improving our school building. It was also mentioned here the strengthening of human resources in our schools. This reinforcement has been done on several fronts. I must tell you that over the past six years, we have lost more than 200 000 students, but we have not stopped strengthening the faculty in more than 4000 teachers in our system over the past few years. At the same time, we fight precariousness with the extraordinary linkage and, through PREVPAP, Programme for the Extraordinary Regularization of Precarious Links in Public Administration, we place more than 5000 educational action assistants, non-teaching personnel, therefore, in the school park, plus 1067 with the last competition, with the recruitment grant also allowing more than 600 quick and agile replacements in our public schools. It is true that there is still much to be done, but we are taking the right path to a school that wants to count on everyone and which is inclusive. The gentlemen. Members also referred to psychologists. It is true that today we have more than 1200 psychologists, having 300 placed in the last two years. And it is also true that in this school period alone, we served more than 10 million school meals and we had about 200 complaints, less than 38 % than in the same period. The school meals are accompanied by nutritionists and their quality is measured at a tripartite level, i.e., through a regulatory front — the book of charges is very secured — at the inspection level and at the level of the RECORRA platform — Electronic Register of Meal Control at Adjudicated Meals. In fact, it was all this work of concern about the quality of school meals that led us to this residual level of complaints, also with the integrated food quality plan. So on all these fronts, we can say that we are improving the quality of our public school, the one that doesn't want to leave anyone behind. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u248	Mrs. Joana Mortagua from the Left Block has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u249	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the freeness of compulsory education is a condition of equality and therefore the freeness of manuals is also a condition of equality, but not all aspects of public school are free of charge such as access to quality food, school material or study visits, so school social action is essential. Today, school social action only covers family students very, very, very, very poor. What we propose is that it may be extended in steps A and B to more families and that it may also help more families to have access to free and public education, which is the condition of equality in our country. We also propose a programme for the timing of interventions that are necessary today in public school. We have a degraded school park and the presence of asbestos and architectural barriers are today an obstacle to access to quality public education, but for this it takes public investment and it is necessary to schedule public investment with transparency so that schools know exactly when they will have works and what works they will have. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u250	Mrs. Members, let us turn to the debate on the proposals of Article 167. o -A, about shiftwork. Mr. José Moura Soeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u251	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is 835 000 people in Portugal who work in shifts. It is 835 000 people with lives against the clock, often found from the rest of the family and who prevent them from seeing their children. There are 835 000 people who pay the consequences of this form of organization of work with their health, with sleep disorders, digestive diseases and, as it is shown, with a higher prevalence of oncological diseases. The shiftwork has not stopped growing in number but continues to be disregarded by the law of work. In recent years, the lack of control over continuous work authorizations has aggravated the phenomenon. What a Budget should do is not to announce a study on what we already know, because for years the scientific community in the field of medicine, sociology, economics, psychology, studies shiftwork and its consequences. What this budget should do is give a sign of recognition of the penosity of work by shift, a sign of consideration for these 835 000 workers, to begin, as we propose, by allowing them to reform sooner because their wear is greater. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u252	We have moved on to the debate under Article 168. o — Contracts-Program in the field of health. They signed up to intervene four ladies and gentlemen. Members, I now give the floor to Mrs Hortense Martins.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u253	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, this State Budget represents the renewal of the Socialist Party's commitment to the SNS. The commitment to health in terms of strengthening budget allocation but which takes place in concrete measures to improve access, the motivation of health professionals and the investment in the SNS network. It is about improving the quality and efficiency of health care delivery, expanding responses, valuing proximity and focusing on people, because it is not enough to put money, budget allocation is needed, and this was placed in this Budget, contrary to what happened in 2010 and 2015, to give better answers to Portuguese. This best response includes more 8400 professionals, the qualification of access, universal health coverage, the strengthening of primary health care, plus 39 USF (family health units), a better oral health response with the participation of municipalities, psychological care and nutrition in each ACES (group of health centers), the strengthening with 10 community mental health teams in five ARS (Regional Health Administrations ) and, in low density regions, pilot projects with mobile units, which also have to be strengthened. In hospital care, I emphasize the existence of more consultations, more access to surgical activity and the strengthening of the Home Hospitalization Program and, in continuous palliative care, more beds and new mental health responses. I also welcome 10 new community support teams in palliative care and a National Vaccination Programme that has been extended, as we all know, and with great impact, not forgetting an investment in the network with the forecast of construction of six new hospitals. There is also a PSD proposal that does not refer to Sintra hospital. More medicines, more participation and more answers are needed so that we can better serve the Portuguese people. Of course, not everything is done, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in a single budget. This is just the first Budget of the Parliament that we want to implement and we know that the issue of health is very important to all in this House. Many proposals have been put forward, but the truth is that many of them are inconsistent: some of us are already doing and others will still approve them after careful analysis. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u254	The next intervention is the work of Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u255	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, you just don't see who doesn't want the SNS to be on the verge of implosion, and it's on the verge of implosion for costs, in a completely uncontrolled spiral and due to lack of management at very varied levels. And it just doesn't see anyone who doesn't want this to be solved until the day that there is real competition between health care providers, such as hospitals and clinics, while the patient's opinion doesn't count for anything at all, that is, until there is free choice. Therefore, through our proposal 315 - C, we want to extend the good experience of SIGA SNS (Integrated System of Access Management to the National Health Service) for specialized consultations and complementary diagnostic examinations to the private sector and the social sector. It is a small step, I know, but it will allow you to reduce the waiting lists and, above all, it will be for the benefit of the Portuguese, so I hope to vote in favour of this House.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u256	On this point too, Mr João Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u257	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PCP proposals for the SNS are aimed at ensuring more access, greater quality and security in the care provided. We propose a multi-year plan of investments in the SNS which provides, at the level of primary health care, to strengthen investment in the remodeling and construction of facilities, plus complementary means of diagnosis and therapy and modernization and strengthening of the car park used in home care. We also propose strengthening valences in primary health care, particularly in the areas of oral, visual, mental health, nutrition, rehabilitation, decentralization of consultations and the existence of responses to acute disease, at an extended time. at the level of hospital care, it is necessary to quickly replace the equipment of hospitals that are obsolete, as well as benefit and remodel existing units. I refer to the motherhood of Coimbra, the new hospital of the West, the Central Hospital of Algarve, the Puvoa Hospital of Varzim in Vila do Conde, the Santa Maria Major Hospital in Barcelos, the expansion of the hospital of Beja or the remodeling of the Hospital of Santa de Maria, among others. at the same time, it is necessary to carry out the construction of new hospital units: the pediatric wing of the Hospital de São João, the hospitals of Évora, the Seixal, the Funchal, or the requalification of the Hospital Center of Vila Nova de Gaia / Espinho. With regard to the application of the Law on Commitments and Payments in Delay ( LCPA ), we cannot accept that the purchase of medicines essential for the treatment of patients is prevented. We therefore propose that the purchase of medicinal products and clinical consumption material and investments already approved with Community funds be excluded from this law or be budgeted. We also propose the elimination of moderate rates in two years, i.e. until the end of 2021. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u258	Mr Álvaro Almeida, PSD, followed.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u259	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, the PSD presents a set of proposals for amending the State budget for 2020 in the field of health, which, without increasing expenditure or reducing revenue, ensure more timely and equitable access by Portuguese to the health services they need. It is clear to all that the socialist governance, over the past four years, has aggravated the problem of the lack of access of users to the services of the National Health Service, which is the mark of the failed governance of the Socialist Party in the area of health. Aware of its failure, the government has announced that health would now be the priority. But UTAO ( Technical Unit for Budgetary Support) has already confirmed that the government has deceived Portuguese since transfers to the SNS planned for 2020 will be lower than those actually carried out in 2019. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u260	For the Government and the extreme-left parties that support it none of this would be a problem, not to approve the fifth socialist budget! For the ideological sectarianism of the left, what matters is the cult of the State and not the service to the people. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u261	That is why they do not care to increase the expenditure with Braga hospital by EUR 33 million per year ( an increase of 18 %), without any gain in the quality and quantity of services provided, only to transfer the hospital to public management and end with PPPs (public-private partnerships) for ideological reasons. [[PSD applause.]] Increase the costs to meet dogmas does not have to do with the PSD program! The PSD program has as its motivation people and, in health, a citizen-centred system. Therefore, we propose the contractualization with social and private sector entities for the management of SNS units and for the provision of health care, where this option corresponds to a greater value for SNS users and an advantage for the public record. Why spend more resources when you can have the same quality with less costs for the state?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u262	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u263	For example, if the 18% savings from private management at Braga hospital were applied by only 10% of the hospital network, the SNS would have more than EUR 100 million to improve the services provided to Portuguese. Such savings would allow building new and more efficient hospitals to replace those that have needed to be replaced more than a decade ago. Such savings would also reduce the waiting time of SNS users by extending the current regime of surgeries to specialist consultations and examinations. Such savings would also enable the government to achieve the goal that it always announces, always promises, but never fulfils — assigning a family doctor to all users of the SNS — through the contractualization of private doctors and USF of model C. These are some of the PSD proposals for the health area. And, Mr Secretary of State, it is not worth repeating the language of the responsibility of the PSD. PSD proposals for health do not increase expenditure, increase the quality and access of citizens to health! It is the government and the parties who support it that, due to ideological prejudices, causes the degradation of the SNS and the increase in expenditure. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u264	On this subject, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa has the floor on behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u265	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it was 33 cents, 27 cents and 18 cents the 'generous' increases granted by the government to the value of daily life in palliative care units, medium-term care units and long-term care units. Increases in 33 cents, 27 cents and 18 cents for a social sector network that provides health care and supports people in situations of extreme vulnerability and end-of-life say a lot about the priority given to these people and families by the government. And to these absurd increases — 33 cents, 27 cents and 18 cents — add to the fact that the conventions signed with this sector in April 2018 have not yet been completed in January 2020. Furthermore, the costs, with the increase of the national minimum wage, with the increase in the wages of nurses and with the complexity of the necessary health care to be provided in these institutions, have been making their viability impossible. Therefore, in order for these institutions to maintain their service and support these families, the CDS proposes a set of increases that restore what enables sustainability in long-term care units, in medium-term care units, with increases in low-density territories and still covering other charges and medicines that these institutions need. The CDS also presents another proposal, also to solve concrete problems of Portuguese, for a situation already mentioned. We all know, until the lists are public, that the maximum response times guaranteed for the first specialist consultations in the SNS have been repeatedly exceeded and at all points in the country. Not in any case, yesterday all parliamentary groups arrived yesterday an e-mail from a father — a father of three children, two twins and a daughter of 14 years, here in Lisbon — who, since 2016, has been waiting for an ophthalmology consultation in a large hospital in the Lisbon area. And, on January 30, this great hospital gave its answer, which I will quote: "The ophthalmology service has no response capacity. There are several situations that compromise compliance with the maximum guaranteed response times, one of which is the lack of clinicians. We understand and accept their discontent, but the demand is greater than the offer». This is the answer SNS gave to a family that has been waiting for an ophthalmology specialty consultation since 2016. Now, the answer is simple: it is enough to extend the SIGIC (Integrated System of Management of Inscriptions for Surgery) to all the capacity that the health system has in Portugal, allowing the contractualization with private and social hospitals, to ensure what is most important, that is, this father and all the people in this country have their consultation in time and time. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u266	The Government will now intervene through the Under-Secretary of State and Health.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u267	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is important to stress that this is the first State Budget made in the light of the new Health Bases Act and seeks to promote sustainability, planning and more response from the National Health Service. That is what we talk about when we look at this State Budget. Therefore, even on the eve of this State Budget, we have adopted a plan to improve the response of the SNS with more investment, with more human resources, with fiscal reinforcement, clearly marking a new cycle and, with all this, a prospect of improving the efficiency of the expenditure and of each euro that is placed in the National Health Service to really put it to the service of the users. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u268	It is €941 million. This is a replacement of EUR 2412 million, more than twice the budget breakdown that the right has inflicted on the National Health Service during its management. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u269	It is a goal that the right has to speak in implosion now, of speaking in lack of access. No, my lords, it's not implosion, it's not lack of access! It's transparency, something that wasn't there in your time! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] This transparency did not exist, the transparency that allowed users to know reality, know it in primary care, in hospital care and understand where, how and when they could get there. This lack of access does not exist today, for example in the medicine, specifically in innovative medicines, and only these are 150 more, between 2016 and 2018 and 74 more in 2019. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests from PSD and from IL, João Cotrim de Figueiredo.]] This is why the response capacity, with more clinical ones, has also been intensified as we know. And it will continue to be - with more than 8400 to be integrated into the SNS in the next two years, between 2020 and 2021, and with an investment plan with more than EUR 190 million in 2020 and 2021 for equipment. Everything to improve the SNS response. We therefore have difficulties. We therefore have concerns about continuing to respond to citizens. But this reinforcement has no parallel, this reinforcement is a challenge, a financial challenge, human resources, efficiency and response. It is a challenge that aims to respond to what is the right of access that citizens have and that we, with a reinforcement of the SNS, want to see fulfilled, every day, more and better so that no user remains without a dignified response and so that it is not because of financial lack that they no longer have access to health, to better quality health, which is what the Constitution safeguards. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u270	On behalf of the Government, the floor is Mr. Secretary of State of the Budget.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u271	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, what the PSD has to explain, not to us, but to the Portuguese and its electorate, is because, in the face of an approved left-wing budget, the PSD says that it does not make an appropriate budget adjustment, criticising an increase in planned expenditure of 4 % in the services, the PSD will approve more increases in expenditure. The PSD will have to explain to its electorate — and the accounts will be clear — the proposals which it has approved and which give rise to an even greater increase in expenditure against everything it has presented, against its electoral programme, in which it said it wanted a strong restraint on expenditure in order to reduce revenue. This is totally contradictory to your program. Therefore, the PSD does not have to explain to us, but rather to its electorate the reason why it is presenting proposals that are totally against its electoral programme. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u272	The proposal submitted by the CFP for the addition of Article 168 is followed. o -A - Moderate fees. Mrs Joana Lima of the Socialist Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u273	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Socialist Party, through the Government and its Parliamentary Group, has done a remarkable job and has gone a long way towards eliminating moderate rates or exempting users from them as soon as possible. It is a pride for all of us to see a Socialist Party government oppose what was done by the PSD/CDS government, which proposed the payment of moderate fees for groups such as firefighters or blood donors, greatly changing primary health care. [[PSD protests.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Socialist Party has done this work since 2016 and will continue to do so, implementing the Health Bases Act in a responsible, phased and priority way: phased, because it concludes responsibility and, priority, because it is to establish justice. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we will continue to do our work, eliminating moderate or user-free rates, as the Socialist Party and the Government programme shows. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u274	Mr Moisés Ferreira, from the Left Block, has the floor on this point.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u275	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the right has already presented their proposals for the economic health groups. [[Oh!]] [[Oh!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u276	It is now time to do something more important, which is to present the proposals for health and for users. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[h!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u277	Indeed, what is at stake here is the right of access to health without any kind of barrier or any kind of obstacle. Therefore, by 2020, there should be no obstacles to the imposition of disguised offsets of moderate rates. Moderate rates should, of course, be eliminated. The Left Block therefore proposes an amendment to the State budget for this elimination to enter into force by 2020, starting with primary health care. But we also propose, for example, that there should be no limitation or barriers to access to medicines. That is why we also propose that there should be investment in the production of medicinal products, in particular through a national laboratory. These, yes, are health measures in Portugal. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u278	We turn to Article 169. o Law No 5 / XIV / 1. a — Users registered by family doctor. First of all, Mr André Ventura has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u279	Mr. President, it is no less curious to see the Socialist Party come to say that it has fulfilled. And, paraphrasing the illustrious Member of the Socialist Party Dr. Ana Catarina Mendes, I also receive daily reports of failures in the National Health Service. But I am not the Prime Minister, who in 2017 said this: « For the year everyone will have a family doctor ». And we arrived at the end of the year with 800,000 users without a family doctor! In 2019 he also said: « This year is what it is»! [[PS Deputy Protests Ana Catarina Mendonça Mendes.]] And come here the gentlemen. State Secretarys of State say: "We are fulfilling. We're doing it! » But there are 800,000 users without a family doctor! Last year, it was even more ridiculous, because the Minister of Health came to say that they were also going to have a family nurse. Of course, we look at numbers today and there is no doctor or family nurse for over 700,000 Portuguese! [[PS and BE protests.]] As they like to look at Europe so much, look at Europe and compare numbers! It's a shame! And they only have this possibility, which is to be a shame... [[BE's protests.]] It's a shame! It's a shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u280	Read your show!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u281	But he also has great thanks to the Secretary of State for Budget saying: "We are doing the best we can. We're doing our best! Now, the government — it wasn't the right, it was the government! — set a target for SNS 90 million deficit.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u282	Go read your program!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u283	You know how much you are, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen? It's 654 million, seven times more! There are no two, no three, no four times more, seven times more! [[Protests from BE MP Jorge Costa.]] If these State Secretaries who are here today were to do something, they would apologize to the Portuguese for spending seven more — seven! — what they spent! Seven times more! Taking in the words of Mr. Porfirio Silva, who said that there were few Social Democrats in the PSD, a true Socialist Party, where there were socialists, was concerned about the existence of family doctors.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u284	He's worried! And you will continue to do it!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u285	Therefore, the arrival will propose that by 2020... [[PS protests.]] ...with monitoring and implementation, all Portuguese have a family doctor! [[PS protests.]] Taking in your expressions, Mr Porfirio Silva, what is missing in the Socialist Party are seriously socialists, who comply with what they have defined in the Government's own programme! That's the truth! [[Protests by the PS Spouse Porfirio Silva.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u286	Mrs. Members, I would ask you to create conditions for us to hear the next speaker, Mrs Paula Santos, from the CFP, who will present several proposals from your party concerning Article 169. o.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u287	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we are committed to the approval of the establishment of the National Laboratory for Medicinal Products. This is clearly a proposal with the mark of the CFP. We have long been defending that the State should be endowed with capacity in the area of medicine, production and research. The country cannot take over the interests of the pharmaceutical industry and it is essential to safeguard our independence and sovereignty.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u288	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u289	Exorbitant prices imposed by the industry for the accumulation of their profits are not comportable. It is not comportable that there are medicines that are not produced because they do not have a commercial interest in the industry. Creating the National Laboratory of Medicine enables everyone to ensure access to the medicine at costs accessible to the State and to the users. The difficulties in access to medicines persist and, therefore, we propose the free exemption of medicines for people over 65 years of age,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u290	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u291	... to chronic and economically insufficiency patients, as well as free dispensation of antipsychotic drugs. in another way, the strengthening of the National Health Service is inseparable from the strengthening of the number of health workers. We propose that health centres, hospitals, INEM, INFARMED and DGS be equipped with the number of doctors, nurses, senior health technicians, diagnostic and therapeutic technicians, technical assistants and medical action assistants needed to ensure access to quality care in time and time. We propose exceptional and transitional measures to ensure that everyone has a family doctor through the hiring of doctors abroad and the creation of incentives to attract Portuguese students in the course of medicine abroad. We also propose, of course, the allocation of the family nurse to all. We propose the creation of vacancies so that internal physicians without access to specialized medical training can have it. And we also consider it essential to prevent health workers from leaving the SNS. Therefore, we consider that socially and professionally value workers, through the enhancement of careers, the guarantee of professional development, participation in research projects, and advance towards exclusive dedication, optionally and object of collective bargaining with trade unions,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u292	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u293	...it is essential for workers to stay in the SNS. We will see those who agree today to strengthen the SNS and those who are not and will only increase the interest of private groups. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u294	Mrs Hortense Martins of the Socialist Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u295	Mr President, Mr Andre Ventura, what you have just done here is, nothing less than a theater number you are used to. And we're getting used to that theater number, [[P.S.'s applause.]] ...because, in fact, what you want is to sell the hospitals. That's what's on the arrival program: sell the hospitals and pass them to the private. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And that is not what we want, because we want to continue to have a National Public Health Service and that provides good health care to Portuguese people. You know, Mr. André Ventura, 93% of Portuguese already have a family doctor! [[P.S.'s applause.]] That was great progress. And yes, we have to do more, and much more! That is why this State budget gives high priority to health. And it's working, it's not with your words, that we do it and that we get there.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u296	Are you going to increase your spending?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u297	You don't need theater, you need work and means. It is with this commitment that the Socialist Party and the Government can count on. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u298	You have the floor, Mr. Secretary of State of the Budget, John Leon.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u299	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to confirm Mrs Hortense Martins' words, because not only the next year's SNS budget has the greatest budgetary strength of ever — 10 %, EUR 942 billion — but even last year's financial reinforcement of the SNS has allowed it to reach the lowest ever in terms of late payments. Late payments in the SNS beat a minimal history, contrary to perception and what the right one likes to say. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u300	We have moved on to the debate on various proposals for Article 169. o - A. You have the floor, first of all, Mrs Bebiana Cunha of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u301	Mr. President and Mr. Members, there are a number of additions we propose to Article 169. the and of which we stand out here some. Already existing public assisted drug breeding centres need more human resources. In addition, the Government needs to ensure these responses in the southern part of the country and in the Autonomous Region of the Azores. It is also essential to strengthen the number of specialists in maternal and obstetric health, integrated in the health teams in the community. We also know that not all parents can provide breastfeeding, so the NAP presents as a solution the creation and implementation of a network of breast milk banks. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u302	Mr. Moisés Ferreira, of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u303	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, health policy requires serious discussion, which requires serious people to do the same discussion.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u304	Oh, is it? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u305	We don't find these serious people on the bench of arriving, for example,... [[Protests from the Congressman, André Ventura.]] ... because he ignores that his electoral programme says—and I quote: «The State should not interfere as a provider of goods and services in the health market». There are no serious people on that side of the Hemicycle in this discussion. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Cecilia Meireles and the Member of the Arrival, André Ventura.]] Here, yes, in the Left Block, there are those who defend the National Health Service! [[Congratulations from BE.]] So I beat us, in the past legislature, by the new Health Bases Law, which even foresees exclusivity. It provides for an exclusivity regime so that the exclusivity of the head office is mandatory, so that it can be opened to all professionals optionally and so that there can be an associated incentive scheme. Here, on this bench, defend the SNS, defend the users. We're not here to say that we're not hiding our program.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u306	We continue with the debate on the proposal on Article 169. o-C...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u307	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u308	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u309	Mr. President, it's for honor's sake. [[BE's protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u310	Mr President, please intervene, you have the right to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u311	Mr President, it is only to make it clear that, on this side of the Chamber, we accept everything, what we do not accept is that they give us lessons in morals and character,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u312	They need it!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u313	... and much less coming from that side of the BE bench. [[BE's protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u314	Mr. Deputies, I would like to thank you for your support for honour.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u315	They can discuss what they understand, but they can't attack us in character and honor. That is what Mr Deputies did, who said that on this side of the Chamber there were no serious people. Are you serious, Mr. Deputies? Oh, my God! If you look here you'll see that the mirror, if it's the opposite, it's got to be very irregular and it's going to be very hard to see! I do not admit that you question the character and honor of whoever it is, and much less mine! I don't admit to you or anyone from this bench, the Left Block! I don't admit it! [[BE's protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u316	You have the floor to answer, if you so understand, Mr. Moisés Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u317	Of course you do, Mr. President. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there are no serious people on the bench of arrive. I reaffirm that. To prove otherwise, this is the reality. [[Protests from the Congressman, André Ventura.]] The arrival has an electoral program that hid, then mysteriously re-appears; has an electoral program that denies... [[Protests from the Congressman, André Ventura.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u318	Sir, let's try to limit...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u319	The arrival has an electoral programme that refuses, now saying exactly the opposite. This programme says that the State should not interfere, as a supplier of goods and services, in the health market,... [[CDS-PP Protests and BE CounterProtests.]] ... and now comes to say that more reinforcement is needed for the National Health Service. So, until you prove otherwise, there really are no serious people on that bench. [[Congratulations from BE and PS Members.]] Or perhaps in a terminology that you will better understand, as far as the National Health Service is concerned, as far as the social state is concerned, you are out of the question. [[Congratulations from BE and PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u320	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u321	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u322	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u323	Mr. André Ventura, is it for a new defense of honor?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u324	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u325	You can't!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u326	Mr President, you will excuse me, but from a regiment point of view this is not possible.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u327	But I have to defend myself!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u328	Sir, let's see if we understand each other. The honourable Member has asked for the floor to defend the honour and has been granted it. According to the Rules of Procedure, the honourable Member shall then reply. And the incident ends like this, Mr. Deputies. I'm sorry, but that's it.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u329	It's the rules! For everyone! [[Protests from the Congressman, André Ventura.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u330	Don't take it wrong, but that's how things get from a regiment point of view: there's the defense of honor and there's the answer. That's right, I'm sorry. Mrs Cecilia Meireles had asked for the floor. To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u331	Mr President, it was to ask the Bureau about the conduct of the work.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u332	You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u333	Mr President, the Bureau has been known, at least in this mandate, for being quite zealous about what is said here and the respect that we all owe to each other. And we must, indeed! Mr. President, the Left Block said that on this side of the Hemicycle, on the right, there were no serious people.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u334	I didn't say that!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u335	I said, I said!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u336	On the bench of arrive!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u337	You will have discussions with the bank of the Arrival, at the level that qualifies you, frankly, more to you than any one of us. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]] But, Mr President, there are things that are not admissible here! [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u338	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I was asking that we move forward in our work. It is understandable that the debates are heated, it is understandable that there is some fatigue at the moment, but I would be grateful if there were conditions for us to be able to move forward with our work. I would ask all parliamentary groups and all Members to create conditions in this regard. Therefore, if we all agree, we will proceed to the proposal of Article 169. o-C, on sharing of thermal treatments. Mr Luís Soares of the Socialist Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u339	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, nine years after the PSD/CDS-PP government has ended with the spa treatment sharing regime, the PSD finally agreed. It agreed for the importance of the sector in the area of health, agreed for the importance of the spas in the territories of low density. Finally, the PSD woke up! He's awake, but he's not quite awake. He is not quite awake because first, he did not realize that a year ago the Socialist Party's government had returned what you had cut. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u340	You didn't wake up, ladies and gentlemen. Members, because you did not realize that this pilot project had, in fact, very important improvements in the territory, particularly in the interior. It did not wake up, because the PSD is now proposing a regime that clearly indicates that the PSD is very happy with very little. The PS does not want a regime just for 2020. The PS wants a regime for the year 2020, for the year 2021, for the year 2022, and above all a regime protecting the terms and our internal governments of the PSD and the CDS, which cut when the Socialist Party wants to move forward. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Cecilia Meireles.]] This scheme is done by doing what was defined in the 2019 Budget: assessing the pilot project and after that evaluation continuing to move forward. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is what the Socialist Party defends, that is what will be approved in the 2020 budget and that is what the Socialist Party will continue to do, defending the interior not only with words, but above all with actions. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u341	We have moved on to the debate on the proposal for a regulation 171. o -A — National patient blood management programme. Mrs Bebiana Cunha from the NAP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u342	Mr President, anemia and blood loss can be effectively treated, bringing benefits to the patient through the implementation of a set of measures that, including reducing costs for the SNS and, in this sense, what the NAP proposes is a national programme for the management of the patient's blood as a response. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u343	We are now entering the debate on Article 179. o — Transport. To intervene on the proposal for an addendum to Article 179. o -A — National railway plan, Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Greens has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u344	Mr President, this proposal which the Greens submit seeks to implement a resolution which was adopted in this House of the Republic — which, in fact, originated in a Greens proposal — and at the same time seeks to meet what the Government Programme says in this regard: 'Adopt a national railway plan to guide long-term investment options, in order to take rail to all district capitals, to reduce travel time between Lisbon and Porto and to promote better links of the rail network to port and airport infrastructures'. The Greens therefore insist on the need for a new transport paradigm in our country based on rail, both at the level of passengers and at the level of goods, both at the level of internal mobility, and at the scale of its connection with Spain and the rest of Europe. The Greens therefore submit this proposal so that the Government will present a national railway plan during 2020. [[PEV and PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u345	We turn to the proposal for an addendum to Article 179. o -A — Construction of a new crossing of the river Tejo, between Chamusca and Golegã. Mrs. Fabíola Cardoso from the Left Block has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u346	Mr. President, the construction of a new bridge over the river Tejo, between Chamusca and Golegã, was a proposal submitted by the Block of the Left in the previous Legislation. That resolution was adopted in favour of all parties. In 2018, the decision of this House was unanimous: it is necessary and urgent to resolve this problem. Today we challenge all political parties, each Member of Parliament and Member of Parliament, to turn from words to acts, to realise the commitment of this vote and to adopt this structural work for the Santarém district in the 2020 budget. We will have the political courage to make bridges, increase territorial cohesion, improve security and quality of life in the region. That is the proposal from the Left Block, which we hope they will vote in favour today. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u347	We now turn to the debate on Article 180. o — Financial resources of the Lisbon Metropolitan Area for the performance of transport authority functions. On the proposal for an addendum to Article 180. o -A — Compensation for the long-term unemployed with the acquisition of the social pass, Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Greens has once again given the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u348	Mr President: As you will certainly recognize, unemployed people are living in a very fragile economic and social situation. The Greens therefore propose that these people be guaranteed mobility conditions which allow them to be proactive in demand for employment. To this end, the Greens are proposing, on the one hand, to extend the Social Pass + throughout the national territory and, on the other hand, to ensure compensation for the long-term unemployed with the costs of acquiring this pass. [[PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u349	We have moved on to the debate on Article 181. o — Programme to support tariff reduction in public transport. Mr André Pinotes Batista of the Socialist Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u350	Mr President, this is a budget that gives continuity to a clear bet on public transport. On public transport, speaking in the plan to support tariff reduction, it should be noted that this was a revolutionary measure, a measure that brought an increase of millions of passengers and also millions of securities acquired. It was an environmental paradigm change, as it decarbonises, a paradigm change in the economic dimension, insofar as it allows each family aggregate to save thousands of euros per month. But it is also a social change by extending access to public transport. All this is funded through the Environmental Fund, which punishes harmful practices to the environment. But in this framework, it is important to reflect on the tremendous commitment that is being made in this State budget, in particular through the annualisation of EUR 140 million and the strengthening that the Socialist Party is doing in this measure, also launching — and this criticism has often been made — a programme to support incentives in the supply of EUR 15 million.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u351	Let's see!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u352	But on this subject, we are pleased to note the following: the right has had a tortuous journey in transport matters. It wasn't for the whole country, but we know it's for the whole country and, with the reinforcement we're going to do now, it's even more so, because it didn't have an answer in the offer. It is EUR 15 million that will also be invested in the supply. In short, they voted against and went against. They took a political ride when the left decided the most revolutionary measure in public transport in Portugal and now, on the sidelines, they are asking to go further. Mrs. Members, worse to the right, better for the Portuguese, who today enjoy an absolutely remarkable measure, who has transported millions of people, helped our environment and, at the same time, made transport more accessible. It's true to say: we're doing it, because the Portuguese, with us, you know. What we promise, we fulfill, and public transport is today a clear bet and a bet for the future in Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u353	We move on to the discussion of Article 182. o — Programme to support the Densification and Strengthening of the Public Transport Offer, for which there are several amendments. The first of the three planned interventions is Mrs Mariana Silva of the Green Green Ecological Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u354	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in the report of the State Budget for 2020, the Government plans to launch a public tender for the award of prospecting rights and research of associated lithium and mineral deposits to nine areas of the national territory. To date, the process of exploration, research and exploitation of lithium and associated minerals has been involved in an unacceptable fog blanket and, above all, has been removed from the populations, particularly those of the territories where there are already signed operating contracts. That is why, by giving expression to the most vivid feelings of the people, the Greens propose that the government stop the process and restart it more transparently, without any doubt and involving the populations. The Greens are not, in principle, against all or any mining, except the exploitation of uranium, until natural and subsoil resources can constitute wealth and added value for the country. But this national interest cannot be incompatible with the legitimate rights and interests of the people, jeopardizing their quality of life and their great environmental values, threatening the natural resources that support life. Never any type of natural resource exploitation can be against local interests. Therefore, in addition to the proposal for a national strategic environmental assessment to assess cumulative impacts with other existing farms, we propose that monitoring committees be set up for each site of exploration and research of lithium or other mineral deposits, which should be composed of elements representative of their communities. Those who should not, fear not, and today we will see who is willing to dissipate the fog and let the light enter in this process. [[PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u355	You now have the floor to Mrs Cristina Rodrigues of the PAN for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u356	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PART is a fundamental instrument for combating climate change and also for promoting territorial cohesion. However, it leaves out a considerable part of the population living in low-density territories, which do not only have the same access to public transport as, although they do not enjoy, contribute to the system with their taxes. in this context, flexible transport is particularly relevant, because it can be a viable solution in situations where there is a low demand for public transport or when such transport does not meet the needs of citizens, and therefore the government should create incentives to make this response available, together with municipalities and inter-municipal communities. It is also essential to ensure that the ART does not exclude persons with reduced or conditional mobility, so serious investment in eliminating the many still existing barriers to public transport, as is the case with the various metro stations in Lisbon. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u357	We spoke to Mrs Isabel Pires of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u358	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members, strengthening public transport must be a real priority for the country, not only for environmental benefits but also for saving for families as well as for territorial cohesion. The tariff reduction operated in 2019 was a decisive step that cannot be offset, on the contrary it must also be strengthened by the central State. For this reason, the Left Block presents a proposal that, in addition to effectively annualising the value of the PART ( considering the 2019 values ), adds 20 million euros that should be allocated to the urgent link between inter-municipal communities for pendulum movements as well as ensuring the integration of the COP in this operation. We also present a proposal to strengthen PROTransP, because it is essential to look at low-density territories and to create and strengthen the supply of transport. Finally, the strengthening of the circulating material of the CP cannot be neglected, so we propose the realization of a plan to renew the circulating material of the CP, even to respond to the very serious problems experienced every day by users, such as on the Sintra Line, in which they have manifested themselves today, but also throughout the country. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u359	The Government also intends to intervene on this point through Mr. Under-Secretary of State and Energy, João Galamba. You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u360	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in response to the ENP proposal to set up a local monitoring committee for each lithium prospecting, we agree with the principle, but we believe that the ENP has given up some demagogy on this subject. The Government of the Socialist Party is currently regulating the basic law of the sector. We ended last week and will be put into public consultation very soon, but the government does not advocate any establishment of monitoring committees for lithium. What the government defends, and we think the ENP should think exactly the same,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u361	That's what's written there!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u362	... is a local monitoring commission for any extractive activity. Now, then, they should be a little clearer, because it seems that the motivation of the ENP...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u363	No, no! That's what's written there!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u364	... it is a concession to a certain populist agenda, unlike the government, which has the same concern as the ENP says it has with the local populations, but it will enter in the law this figure associated with all and any extractive activity. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u365	You now have the floor to speak in the debate on the proposal for an addendum to Article 182. o -A— Plan for the intermodality of bicycles in public transport, Mr Nelson Peralta, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u366	Mr President, bicycle and public transport are essential in responding to climate change. The Left Block brings to this State budget a proposal worth EUR 250,000 to remove obstacles in public transport, be it buses, trains, meters, boats, so there can be bicycles. This makes it possible to extend the scope of bicycles in public transport and thus contribute to the decarbonisation of the economy. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u367	We now turn to the debate on the proposal for an addendum to Article 182. o -A — Provision for reducing regional inequalities in access to public transport. You have the floor for one speech, Mr Cristovão Norte, of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u368	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the tariff reduction programme is a mobility programme. He's welcome, but he's ill-prepared and he's got screaming mistakes. Last year, in the discussion of the State budget, the PSD referred to three nuclear aspects. The first was the de-investment. This de-investment continues to occur. There is no public investment and therefore we do not have circulating material with dignity, we do not have carriages with dignity, we have little quality of supply, we have little quantity and many people are left out. Another central aspect was regional asymmetries. We found that, between 2016 and today, there was an increase of 17 cents per litre in gasoline and 11 cents in gasoline only in taxes, many of them resulting from the carbon rate. And who suffers from this increase? They suffer from the inhabitants of the interior, without alternatives, because they do not have access to public transport, but they are still obliged to finance when the State turns their backs on them. But worse than that, and we also pointed out last year, was the circumstance of creating an almost border element of pendulum movements that were not considered, for example, between Braga and Porto, between New Sales and Lisbon. And there are people who use them every day and pay the triple or quadruple of what is 5 or 10 km next and who pay the 40 euros that have been recorded. It is against this social and economic injustice, against the fact that thousands and thousands of Portuguese are excluded, that the PSD presents a proposal for an amendment which we hope the House will support, in order to ensure justice, equity and access to public transport under the same conditions for all Portuguese, so that it is an inclusive programme. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u369	We now move on to the discussion of Article 183. o — Costs with the social rate of natural gas. You have the floor for an intervention, Mr André Silva, of the NAP. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u370	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The most effective way to combat energy poverty is by extending the social energy tariff and supporting energy efficiency investments. The socially just answer that we must give is to allow those who cannot afford electricity to access energy without conditionalism, preventing situations of energy poverty. Thus, the NAP proposes the extension of the current social energy tariff. The current conditions of access only allow for this support for unemployed people who receive the social unemployment allowance, which represents less than 10 % of the total unemployed. Proposal 446 - C of the NAP, including all unemployment benefit situations, will increase the access of current 800 000 families to one million families. We have thus made it possible for more than 200 000 families in Portugal to have access to a reduction of 34 % in the price of their electric invoice. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u371	You have the floor on behalf of the Government, Mr. Secretary of State for Energy, João Galamba.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u372	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr André Silva, the government's commitment to reducing electricity prices and extending the social tariff has indeed been a mark of recent years. The social tariff, when the Government of the Socialist Party took office, covered little more than 80 000 families and now covers more than 800 000, therefore there is a priority in combating energy poverty and, of the tools it has just referred to in combating energy poverty, it is a priority for the government that has indeed a curriculum in this regard. We just wanted to add, and it is important, that the government is not only committed to lowering electricity costs to the most vulnerable layers of the population. The Government's entire energy strategy, in particular to strengthen the production of renewable energy, points to this. The government last year achieved a solar auction with the lowest prices in the world. In the meantime, we have already been beaten by Qatar, which many honour us, because, in fact, being beaten by a country lined up in the desert and sun is not exactly a defeat for Portugal. Therefore, the strategy that the Government has outlined makes it very clear to all electricity consumers in Portugal: energy transition is not a threat, but an opportunity to reduce electricity prices and create jobs. This is what the government is committed to and will continue to be involved in. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u373	For Article 183. o -A, the proposal on the extension of transitional tariffs, has the floor for an intervention, Mr Duarte Alves, of the Communist Party. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u374	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In the area of energy, the CFP presented a set of proposals aimed at reducing the energy tariff paid by Portuguese, which is the most expensive in Europe. We will talk about VAT tomorrow, but VAT does not make us forget what the Assembly of the Republic has approved in the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry on the Payment of Excessive Income to Electricity Producers. Yes, it is necessary to lower VAT, but it is also necessary to end the excessive incomes that continue to weigh on the Portuguese bill. Several of the proposals to be voted on this afternoon will give rise to the findings of the Committee of Inquiry. We also propose that a maximum price scheme be set up for fuels. We propose the adoption of measures to promote energy efficiency, starting the state to set an example in public services, which requires investment, but an investment that will bring back in the future. We also propose that the oil tax on electricity cease to affect the part of electricity that is produced from renewable sources. Mrs. Members, it is open to the possibility of approval of the proposal from the CFP to prolong regulated electricity tariffs, which has been an important element to contain the increase in energy prices. Lowering the price of electricity and gas, ensuring energy sovereignty and responding to environmental challenges are the priorities of the CFP in this area. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u375	You have the floor again on behalf of the Government, Mr. Secretary of State for Energy João Galamba.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u376	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Duarte Alves, with the support of several parties in this House in recent years, has taken very important measures to reduce electricity costs, in particular over-income. But it is important to make clear how much has been done, because it is not at all true the idea that we are now going to start reducing income. Over the past four years the measures applied have been numerous since the final reversibility of CMECs ( cost of maintaining the contractual balance ), in which there is a difference between the State and the EDP around EUR 100 million / year—there is therefore to multiply this over the duration of the CMECs to see what value we are talking about—or the term ended or suspended the power guarantee. But there is one thing the government will not do: the government will not enter into achievements for consumers, with apparent short-term gains, which will be paid with interest in the long term. It is therefore very important to look at what is happening in Spain, where contracts have been broken and the rule of law has been violated, creating the illusion for a few years that the cost of electricity has been reduced to now, later, if all this is paid with interest, creating a new inequality, Mr, that it is important to bear in mind in some of the Commission's proposals. There are measures involving international litigation, particularly in arbitration, which are causing enormous injustices at the level of companies. And you know why, Your Honor? Because those who have access to international arbitration—and in international arbitration all these cases have been won—are the big companies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u377	The PS approved!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u378	Those who do not have access to international arbitration and who are affected by such measures are small businesses, they are SMEs. Therefore, the Government will continue its policy of reducing incomes which may be reduced, without breaking contracts and without kicking in the rule of law. This is because there is one thing we will not do: in exchange for a short-term populist applause we will not sacrifice the interests of the Portuguese in the long term. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u379	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, let us turn to the debate on Article 184. the, on the asbestos removal program. For an intervention on this point, Mr. Nelson Peralta, of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u380	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the discussion of this State budget has left something quite clear: the listing of public buildings with asbestos does not exist, in fact, exists, but is out of date, as well as the schedule of works is also completely out of date. This, despite being mandatory by the law of 2011, and although in 2016 this government itself constituted a working group to complete this process which, unfortunately, is not completed. That is why the Left Block Parliamentary Group brings here a proposal that aims to update the list of buildings, the publication and execution of the schedule of removal of asbestos works and also the increase in the participation of the rehabilitation fund that does these removal works. It is essential to restore trust to all people and that everyone in all schools, hospitals and public buildings in the country know that the site of public services that go to and from is safe. That is why we consider it essential that this proposal be approved, in order to restore confidence in public services and ensure that public health is defended in this matter of asbestos. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u381	Also on this point on the agenda, Mrs Alma Rivera has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u382	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Since the presence of asbestos in buildings is a situation in which human health is concerned, the CFP proposes, in the asbestos removal programme, the better identification of public buildings that still have this material, but, above all, the strengthening of funds for progress, once and for all, in their removal. We have added a very forgotten aspect, the need for identification and resolution of environmental liabilities resulting from the presence of asbestos in abandoned structures. The CFP also proposes more measures that can combat environmental problems and protect nature: we move forward with the proposal of a plan to eradicate invasive species in protected areas, such as water jackets or Asian bean; we propose a strategic environmental assessment for the exploration and exploitation of minerals throughout the territory, to ensure that the defense of ecosystems, health and quality of life of populations is first. And, by rational management and by safeguarding our water, we present training and improvement measures in the water resources monitoring system. Steps are needed for the CFP in this Budget to remove more animals from the abandonment situation and to avoid the increase in the populations of errant animals. We therefore put forward a proposal, the most ambitious, for the Official Animal Collection Centres and support for sterilization, also proposing more municipal veterinarians as a concelerated health authority. These are some of the proposals that the CFP is making in environmental matters. They are not only good intentions or words, they guarantee the APA (Portuguese Association of the Environment), the ICNF (Institution of Conservation of Nature and Forests), the IGAMAOT (General Inspection of Agriculture, the Sea, the Environment and Planning of the Territory) and the DGAV (General Directorate for Food and Veterinary) the means for its mission in multiple fronts. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u383	We now turn to the debate on the proposal for a Article 192. o -A, on the regional delegations of AICEP (Agence for Investment and Foreign Trade of Portugal, E. P. E. ) on the inside. To that end, Mr Carlos Peixoto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u384	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in the area of territorial cohesion, the Government, the PS and the left parliament seem to suffer from bipolarity.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u385	Don't do that what's ugly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u386	Now, look: they advocate incentives to mobility in the interior, and this is wonderful, isn't it? — but at the same time they vote against the reduction of tolls in the motorways that exist there. They make statements of eternal love, but at the same time they lead the PSD proposals for the creation of the internal Erasmus programme to attract young people to these territories. [[PS protests.]] You swear to him that he is absolutely loyal, promising him a few million euros, as they did yesterday, but on the same day they reject the PSD proposal here for future public services to be installed preferably within the country. [[PS Member Protests Hortense Martins.]] You are very sorry when the interior burns burning killing people without mercy, but on the next day they place it in the plane of irrelevance. You are not consistent or consistent, and what you are doing here is just shooting a few dry powders on this subject. Mrs. Members, this issue has to be raised to the highest national priority, because if it is not and if this issue is not a national theme, of the country, and it continues to be a theme of party A or party B, without bold measures, with redness and scratch, we do not leave the cake strain. [[PS protests.]] Believe me, ladies and gentlemen. Members, and the country that is aware of this: the best way to develop the country and to help the coast is to develop the interior of the country. And it counts with the PSD, with many of our measures and with yours, that many of them are also good, so that together we take this goal, which has to be a genuine and authentic goal, of Portugal, and not of Party A or Party B. [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u387	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, let us turn to the debate in Article 195. o — Implementation of funds in the field of organic farming. There are two interventions planned for this point. The first is Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Greens. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u388	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This Green proposal with regard to Article 195. the, together with the proposal presented for Article 115. the aim is to enhance family agriculture as a contribution to mitigate regional asymmetries, combat the desertification of the interior and the abandonment of the rural world, in addition to stress the natural importance that family agriculture assumes with regard to the fight against forest fires, in a preventive perspective, because where there are people and agricultural activity there are less forest fires. Both this proposal, which provides for the creation of a decentralised network of free support and technical advice for farmers to whom the status of family farming is recognised, and the proposal to Article 115. the, which proposes a specific social security regime within family agriculture, no longer intends to give body to what is legally determined and, more specifically, in the Statute of Family Agriculture, created by Decree-Law No 64 / 2018. The Greens, however, consider that the Statute will be enshrined in little or nothing, and then there will be no realisation of what is foreseen there. We therefore put forward these proposals to take a few steps to materialize the Family Agriculture Statute, which, I remember, are already legally planned. [[Congrats from the CFP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u389	Mrs. Cristina Rodrigues of the NAP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u390	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in 2017, were approved the National Strategy for Biological Agriculture and the Action Plan for the Production and Promotion of Agricultural Products and Organic Foods. It turns out that neither of them had any budget caps. So it's not worth making strategies! In order to worsen the situation since 2015, no support has been given to new farmers in biological terms within the framework of the support of the RDP 2020 ( Continental Rural Development Programme ). Support for organic production continues to be residual in the face of support for conventional production. Those who produce more sustainable practices continue to benefit those who use highly impactive practices for the environment. It is urgent to reverse this trend. For all this, we argue that organic agricultural production should have the dignity it deserves and, as such, we propose the urgent reopening of support for this mode of production and that, indeed, conditions for new farmers should be created in biological mode. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u391	We now turn to the debate on Article 196. o — Official animal collection centres and support for sterilisation of animals. Having two inscriptions to this point, you have the floor, first of all, Mrs Mariana Silva, of the ENP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u392	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, about 40 000 animals are removed from the streets and collected in official animal collection centres (CROs), whether municipal or intermunicipal. The size of the number of animals presented shows the size of the problem we have to face, and to these it is necessary to add the many who continue to wander through the streets. It is necessary for the State to comply with the measures laid down in Law No 27 / 2016 of 23 August, providing for the necessary funds to continue the creation of a network of CROs and spaces for the sterilization of dogs and cats. In addition, the bodies of the central administration of the State responsible for the protection, welfare and animal health, in collaboration with local authorities, associative movement and non-governmental organisations of the environment and animal protection must, above all, promote more adoption campaigns. They are also important awareness campaigns, which should take place with school communities, in order to promote respect, adoption, protection and the end of the abandonment of domestic animals. It is also important to set up a working group to assess the application of the animal protection law and the CRO law, as only knowing the specific difficulties the respective entities are experiencing will be able to correct the necessary funds and the measures to be applied to ensure that the laws are met and the welfare of the animal is a reality. The two amendments tabled by the Greens that we are going to vote today will meet these needs. [[Congratulations on the ENP and on the PCP Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u393	To speak on this subject, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u394	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, successive governments have relegated animal protection and welfare to the background. It can be seen that, indeed, civil society is increasingly calling for progress in these matters, which the NAP has assumed to call for debate in this Parliament. A budget that has several million euros to encourage intensive livestock, animal testing or even for the transport of live animals cannot be a budget that counts coughs for animal protection. in this sense, the NAP presented several proposals that aim precisely to strengthen the one that is a desire of the 21st century. We therefore propose: the strengthening of funds for the recovery of official collection centres and their extension to animal protection associations, which have replaced the State in the task of welcoming abandoned or errant animals; the possibility of deduction within IRS of medical and veterinary expenses; or the creation of shelters for livestock and wild animals, something that has not existed until now in our country. We also propose reducing the rate of VAT in medical veterinary acts, an essential act for families to be able to take care of their animals. More fundamental is that there is a vision, a north one, and for this we propose a national strategy for pets, a structural tool so that we can move forward in these matters in a joint way. The difficulties are more than known, ladies and gentlemen. Members and Members of Parliament. In fact, the associations have called for structural means and for the strengthening of the police themselves that control these matters, so that there can be more action and control against the abandonment and ill-treatment of animals that proliferate in our country. As for livestock, this is a budget that strongly disregards them, and for the NAP it is essential to review the support programmes for these matters. We have also fallen far behind the law on the protection of circus animals, something that should have already seen the light of the day and which has not yet happened. That is why, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we argue that animals cannot and should never be the poor parent of politics, those for whom we look only when there is nothing else to do. Public policies cannot continue to go back to this reality. Whether it is a matter of sensitivity, of humanity or of mere social justice, it is time to make these advances. So there is political will for that! [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u395	All right! [[Meanwhile, Vice-President Antonio Filipe was re-chaired.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u396	Let us move on to the discussion of Article 201. o — Report on the development of the recruitment of persons with disabilities in the Public Administration. Mrs Sandra Pereira is entitled to speak on this subject. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u397	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD would like to say that it follows the generality of the proposed amendments which have been tabled with regard to this Article. However, as far as supporting products are concerned, it is important to say that laziness and bureaucracy in their allocation are an increased concern for the Democratic Social Party and we have repeatedly questioned the government about it. The State budget of the previous year provided that applications for support products were granted within a maximum of 60 days. But what we have unfortunately found is that in many cases the delay is two years, and it is not rare when such support comes when people already need it. The Communist Party proposes that this effective allocation, i.e. delivery of support products, be made within 45 days and the Block proposes that this deadline be 30 days. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this seems more like a kind of championship to see who proposes the shortest deadline. The PSD could also enter this championship and propose a deadline of 5 days or 1 day, but we do not want to go there. That's between the Block and the PCP. Little by little or nothing, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is worth the support products to be made available within 30 or 45 days if the deferral of your request takes two years. What is required of the Government is that it fulfil its obligation and take measures to give a timely response to people with disabilities. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u398	To intervene on proposal 306 - C, of the Left Block, to add an article 201. o -A— Promotion of accessibility for disabled people, Mr José Manuel Pureza is registered. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u399	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Block on the Left brings to this Budget proposals for the country to advance in the recognition of the rights of equality and the rights of difference of persons with disabilities. We propose recognition of the right to reform without penalties for those who, at 55 years of age, have 20 years of social security discounts, of which 15 with a disability of 60 % or more. We propose that effective access to support products be materialized within a short period of time and not in the months or years that today are being measured between the financing decision and the effective delivery of essential products to the quality of life of so many people. We propose that participation in the cost of supporting products for ostomized and incontinental become 100 %. We propose that all public administration bodies comply in 2020 with accessibility legislation and have the necessary funds to do so. We propose that light passenger or mixed cars for the use of persons with disabilities be considered Class 1 for the purpose of paying tolls. We propose that the basic component of social benefit be updated for inclusion, so that its minimum limit is set at the value corresponding to the indexer of social support. Finally, we propose the exemption of propines in the three higher education cycles for students with disabilities equal to or greater than 60 %. For people with disabilities, the discourse on human rights must no longer be a discourse on the rights of others. It is for this purpose that we present these proposals. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u400	To intervene on Article 203. o — Legal system of economic counter-ordinations: authorization to the Government, object, meaning and extension, has the floor of Mrs Ana Mesquita of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u401	Mr President, it will not be exactly within the scope of this article, but I will talk about culture. The CFP proposes that in 2020, in accordance with a resolution adopted last July, the Government shall present to the Assembly of the Republic a proposal for a national development plan for arts and culture, planning State intervention and implementing at least 1 % of the State budget for culture. And more: the PCP presents solutions to solve many of the problems that are living in culture, such as those that resulted from the fiasco of the results of the last biennial competition to support the arts. We propose extraordinary support for the arts, providing EUR 12, EUR 8 million for the two years 2020 - 2021, and funding by 2020 of all eligible applications, also creating a mechanism to address non-eligibles at risk of closure. More: we propose much more in terms of culture and of all the problems that remain. We propose funding to ICA (Instituto do Cinema e do Audiovisual ) and Cinemateca through the State Budget, strengthening its staff, increasing the number of literary creation scholarships, strengthening public libraries, re-qualifying the National Theatre of São Carlos and the Teatro Camões, investing in cultural heritage and strengthening the funds of cultural and educational programs such as the National Plan of Arts, the National Plan of Cinema and the National Plan of Reading. It's not just about you, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, to ensure access or profit. In fact, what is at stake is the right to create as a pillar of democracy. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u402	As has been noted, there was a misunderstanding in indicating the scope in which the honourable Member intervenes. It was not about Article 203. the proposal for a law, but on the proposal, submitted by the CFP, an article 203. o -A, on art support, as we could hear. Thank you very much, Mrs. Deputies. To intervene on proposal 1124 - C of the CDS, adding an article also numbered as 203. Mr. Telmo Correia of the CDS spoke on another subject concerning Portuguese citizens residing in the former overseas territories.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u403	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President: 'expendable questions' and are pending questions 40 years ago, because, Mr President, Mrs and Mrs. Members, within the framework of the exemplary decolonization of Portugal,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u404	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u405	... there were hundreds of thousands of Portuguese who delivered and abandoned everything they had when they left the old Portuguese colonies, at the height of decolonization and also the Prec (Revolutionary Process in Course) in 1974 and 75. Many of these Portuguese have heroically crossed all over Africa to save their families and what little was left of them. But, until today, they have never seen that reality corrected. We know that the proposal has been on the table several times. We know that responsibility has often been for the circumstances of the country and that it has not been possible to do this justice until now. But it is important that it is not forgotten and that this compromise exists from the budgetary point of view, after all, of what the government itself said it would do.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u406	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u407	I would also like to say, on this point: today, there are those who want to place on the political agenda the return of cultural heritage to the old Portuguese colonies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u408	Me!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u409	I would say that it might be a good idea to start by repairing the situation of the Portuguese people who left everything, lost everything and were never compensated.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u410	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u411	If the argument to be able to return cultural heritage is that the discussion exists in other countries, it must be remembered here today that Portugal is the only former colonial power — I repeat, the only former colonial power — that has not compensated its citizens.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u412	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u413	Belgium has done so, France has done so, the United Kingdom has done so, Italy has done so. All the old colonial powers have compensated their citizens.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u414	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u415	Today, the universe is getting smaller, but some citizens are waiting for compensation. It is time, under possible conditions, to bring them justice and recognize this commitment of basic justice. [[Meanwhile, Vice-President José Manuel Pureza was re-chaired.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u416	We have moved on to the discussion of Article 204. o — Amendment to the Code of the Tax on the Income of Single Persons. Several interventions are planned, the first of which is for Mrs Mariana Mortágua, of the Left Block. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u417	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The IRS needs a thorough review in two directions: on the one hand, increasing its progressiveity and lowering the rates on the middle class, on those who work, and this is done through the review of the steps; on the other hand, by taxing the incomes of shares and financial wealth as the work is taxed and not benefiting from those incomes of the capital, and this is done through the encompassing. It is known that in this Budget the priority of the Left Block has been, and is, the fall in the VAT of electricity. Still, we'll be here next year to discuss the deep review the IRS needs. at this time, what we propose is that the IRS steps be updated according to inflation, so that there is no effect, even marginal, on the tax paid by workers due to the upgrade of the steps at a lower rate than expected for inflation next year. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u418	You now have the floor, on this point, Mrs Vera Braz of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u419	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to begin my speech with a number: EUR 2000 million! This was the value of the reduction of taxes borne by the Portuguese, verified in the last four years. The evolution of the tax burden, often debated here, not as a result of an increase in tax effort, but as a trajectory of growth in employment and wage mass, seen in recent years, and the objective of reintroduction of income, realized in the last legislation, allowed all Portuguese to feel a tax relief due to the elimination of overtax. We replaced the family coefficient, the one that left out more than 70% of the family aggregates, by fixed deductions, we updated the steps of IRS, to which we will have the opportunity to return to the next State budget, and we increased the minimum of existence, the one that had been frozen on the right.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u420	All right! [[PSD Member Protests Paulo Neves.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u421	Yes, we have initiated a fairer fiscal policy, which relieves and protects those in need. [[PSD Member Protests Paulo Neves.]] The State budget for 2020, which we are discussing today, gives continuity and support to the commitment to support families and to encourage future generations taken up by this Government,
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u422	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u423	We encourage the qualification of younger people, we support their integration into the labour market at the fragile moment of the start of their careers, and may benefit from a significant reduction in IRS for three years.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u424	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u425	We are totally exempt from IRS 30 000 families by updating the minimum of existence, but we cannot forget those 167 000 families that we have also been exempt in the last two years.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u426	All right! [[PSD Member Protests Paulo Neves.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u427	As a form of promotion of birth, in addition to the value of income, tax instruments are also improved. With this State Budget, we have a duplicate of the increase in tax deductions per child, which will reach the 900 € from the second child. Here, too, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group makes its contribution, making it possible to reach the largest number of family members, eliminating the age criterion. At the same time, on the initiative of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, the total exemption from pension income obtained abroad by non-standard residents is eliminated, to which a rate of 10 % will apply for those who in the future will adhere to the scheme.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u428	And that's why the rich don't pay taxes in Portugal!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u429	thus, we care not only for greater fiscal justice as, at the same time, we continue to provide conditions for families with international mobility to view Portugal as an entrepreneurial country, an innovative country and a country conducive to investment.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u430	Investment we don't have!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u431	These are just some of the measures that enable us to respond to current challenges and to have fiscal equity, always with the aim of improving the living conditions of young people, workers, reformers and families. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u432	You also have the floor on this point, Mrs Helga Correia, from the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u433	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Families today favour household care as an alternative to institutionalization, with benefit for the dependent person and for the State. PSD is attentive to the reality of care in Portugal and to the change of paradigm in the way to care. We insist on the recognition of persons, and that the costs incurred with contracts to support the household are now comparable, for the purposes of IRS, to household charges. We speak of a measure of tax recognition, essential for those who care at home by choice or lack of a job in the care network and in the network of rest care at the caregiver. Expectations were created for caregivers and, at the moment, disappointment prevails. According to the Minister, in the discussion of the State budget, the joint portfolio would have been published by the end of January. We are currently in February and still in the drawer, we just don't know which Ministry. Caregivers deserve more respect. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u434	The next intervention is the responsibility of Mr Olavo Câmara of the Socialist Party. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u435	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group submits a proposal for an amendment which upholds the exemption from earnings earned by students working in the IRS of their families up to the annual limit of 5 times the IAS. That is to say, this measure disbands families from paying in the IRS what their children earned from their work as students on their vacations or weekends. That is why this measure complements this budget, which, by itself, is already a young budget and which responds to the challenges of young Portuguese people. These are proposals such as this and others that we present, such as IRS Young, the increase in support for displaced students, scholarships higher than the value of propines, expansion of discounts in passes or the reinforcement of the Porta 65 programme, for example, that attest well to the priorities of PS and Socialist Youth, in the sense of emancipation of Portuguese young people. The way we want to Portugal is this: a country with young people, who bet on their students, with higher education and qualification for all and who end up with all the barriers, for greater emancipation of young Portuguese people. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u436	Mr Duarte Alves of the CFP now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u437	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: The CFP has put forward a number of proposals for a fairer fiscal policy. Within the IRS, we propose that the steps be updated at the expected inflation rate by 2020, as it makes sense, and that the number of steps be increased. We propose that the minimum of existence increase at least in the same proportion in which the minimum wage increases, so that there are no taxpayers with incomes a little above the minimum wage that no longer fall within the minimum of existence. All these measures are important, they make sense and move towards greater fiscal justice. But let me highlight the extent to which we propose to increase the specific deduction. The value of the specific deduction, which is reduced to the overall income of taxpayers in the IRS, is set at €4104 since 2010, when it was frozen. This freeze means that since 2010 taxpayers with low incomes and intermediates are thus losing available income. What we propose is, firstly, to increase the specific deduction by €200, which is part of what taxpayers have lost over these years, and, secondly, to calculate the specific deduction with a formula that guarantees their annual update. In response to this question raised by the CFP, the Government has already said that it intends to increase the specific deduction but only in 2021 — we register. We also note that in 2020 the government found the mechanisms to alleviate corporate tax on profits over EUR 12 million. But to degrade tax on taxpayers with low income and intermediate income, push to 2021. If the PS is concerned about tax revenue, it has good medicine: it approves the PCP proposal to make it compulsory to include incomes above 100 000 €,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u438	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u439	... ending with the situation in which capital income is benefited in relation to labour income, without any justification. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u440	Mr João Pinho de Almeida, from the CDS-PP, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u441	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With regard to the IRS, which is at issue in this article, we have heard interventions on the left speaking of relief to the middle class. It is appropriate to ask whether or not these parties are the same ones that, in the previous legislature, promoted the greatest ever increase in tax burden in Portugal and which successively approved Budgets that were beating tax burden records in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u442	At an hour like this? Oh, my God! O John, one hour from this? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u443	If we today have the greatest tax burden in Portugal, this is due to the Socialist Party, the Left Block, the PCP and the Greens, who approved these Budgets! So it's no use coming up now with proposals as stupid as those presented by the Socialist Party about the young people and...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u444	He's indecisive, but he didn't need to be like that!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u445	... about the babies. It is that the question about how many people would be covered by these measures and what value would be saved, for some reason the government has never answered. Because, of course, these proposals, taking away the propaganda they contain, have no significant effect from the point of view of tax relief for Portuguese families.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u446	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u447	It is therefore necessary to say whether or not we want to relieve the middle class in Portugal in relation to the IRS and whether we want to do so by not compromising the balance of public accounts. This is because we are not irresponsible, we do not want to do so at the expense of that balance. We must begin by reducing the rates of the first three steps of IRS, in half a point, to sustain this reduction. We must realize one thing: the Government of the Socialist Party cannot continue, in this legislature, with the same model that it used in the previous one, which was to achieve a balance of public accounts based on an ever-increasing increase in tax revenue collection. Either the Socialist Party is able to promote policies that stimulate economic growth and there will be sustainability for public accounts or it must be clear in the wrong option that makes it increasingly slaughtering the middle Portuguese class, imposing an ever higher tax burden and not allowing this middle class to breathe. The alternative is proposed by the CDS: let the middle class breathe, let Portuguese families effectively have better living conditions and require the government to do its work, that is, to have competitiveness policies that allow our economy to grow more. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u448	Mr António Maló de Abreu, from the PSD, has the floor here too.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u449	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: The unusual resident regime has been an important instrument for the establishment of new residents, including foreign pensioners, but also qualified professionals in areas of high degree of expertise and added value. Portugal needs attractiveness, also in tax terms, so far as tourism and external investment are priorities. If we want to assert ourselves as a desirable destination for whom to come for good, it is not justified to end with stimuli, especially when restricted to its specific character.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u450	Why those?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u451	Portugal is also attractive to our emigrants who receive pensions from the countries where they have worked and this scheme is a way of encouraging their return, ending a whole life of sacrifice, so far. We value how much they contribute to the development of the country, as a whole, but especially, and with a significant impact on the regions of the interior, when territorial cohesion becomes a national design. Thus, on the basis of the said and most likely, the PSD cannot agree with any proposal to eliminate the unusual resident regime. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u452	At this point too, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u453	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, Mr. Members: We are well aware of our desire to free Portugal from this fiscal oppression that the PS seems to want to condemn us. Therefore it is not surprising that we have several proposals in the IRS area in Article 204. the, of course an attempt not to make these measures, which have already been mentioned, the IRS Young and the IRS for babies, and our flagship proposal of IRS of a single rate. And, yes, Mrs Mariana Mortagua, we will be here for the year to discuss a profound reform of the IRS.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u454	I hope it's not that nonsense you just talked about!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u455	Even though, from the height of your arrogance and moral superiority, you consider me a little serious, we'll be here for the year. But there is no measure so well exemplified by this socialist mantra of 'if you move, you charge' so much as the PS wants to again introduce a further increase in taxation on local housing.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u456	Well said!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u457	And on this point, I want to say: in 2017 there were almost 90 000 registered owners, attracted by the range of 0, 15 % coefficient, which in 2019 rose to 0, 35 % and that you want to go up to 0, 50 % in the simplified regime in containment areas already this year of 2020.So people are drawn to the regime and then you charge. In the simplified scheme 60 % of these people have only one registered accommodation, and almost all are self-employed, they are not exactly rich gentlemen, and you want to tax them. They voted in favour of proposal 355 - C, if they really want to recognise the thousands of Portuguese that have invested millions of euros, that have created thousands of jobs, that have created wealth for this country and that they do not deserve to be seen by the Socialist Party as petty-mealers.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u458	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u459	You now have the floor to Mrs Marcia Passos.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u460	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: The exploitation of local housing is again seeing its increased tax and we cannot agree with such an attack on the pockets of those who have invested their savings and have contributed to a large extent to recover historic centers.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u461	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u462	It was the government that needed these people, these investors, to recover the buildings in ruins and to recover the cities. But what did the government do? By 2017, he punished them and increased the tax. What does the government now do two years ago? Again, tax increases to 0, 50 %. We cannot deal with this kind of policy. The government has forgotten those people who made historic centers recover. The tax burden is enormous and frustrating the expectations of those who invested. They note that none of this investment has yet been recovered, as there are ongoing works and there are licensings that are still not approved. The government deceives the Portuguese, and more: keeps foreign investment away. To be approved, this measure will certainly kill local accommodation in historic centers. Mrs. Members of the PS, this is in fact the Budget with the greatest tax burden of all time, beats all records and there is no memory of a budget of this nature. That's why, sirs. Members, against facts there are no arguments: it is the Budget with the highest tax burden in the history of Portugal. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u463	To close the debate on Article 204. you have the floor, on behalf of the Government, Mr. State Secretary for Tax Affairs.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u464	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I shall begin with the speech of Mr Cotrim of the Liberal Initiative, telling him that, when he wishes to make a proposal, such as 803-C on the IRS, he will have to make a correct proposal, because the one he presented here is inept — I have no other expression — and, in addition to inept, is even unfair from the social point of view. This is because what you think is that you should be taxed at the same rate as someone who earns the national minimum wage. That is what you are defending, and that is what we will never accept. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is 14 hours and 20 minutes and, I confess, I was no longer waiting to return to the discussion of the tax burden. But the right comes always with the tax burden!]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us understand: yes, we are champions of the contribution revenue. Yes, for social security, because we have better paid jobs and jobs. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, looking at social contributions as one looks at a tax is, at least, absurd not to say anything else.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u465	No, it's not!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u466	So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have more tax revenue, because we have more jobs and jobs better paid. And we have more tax revenue not because we have increased taxes but because the economy is better and because the Portuguese have more income. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests from PSD and IL Members.]] Mrs. Members of the Liberal and PSD Initiative, who came to talk about the local accommodation, since when does the simplified regime set up a tax benefit? Since when, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen? Mrs. Members, the simplified scheme is a technique of voluntary taxation. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, what is being proposed is that what is supposed to be 35 % of costs is assumed to be 50 % of costs. If you think that costs are lower there is an alternative to organised accounting, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen. [[Protests from PSD and IL Members.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, listen to the end: the extent to which we are proposing regarding local accommodation is accompanied by other measures of the greatest importance and which the honourable Members are proposing. Members deliberately ignore it. What we are saying is that those who have invested in local housing and who want to maintain the same level of income can continue to do so. And they can continue to do so, Mrs PSD, those who have rehabilitated in urban terms because we reopen the time limit of the checks so that they can have a 5% IRS, if they put the rehabilitated property in the lease regime. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we end up with the added value of categories B and G if the property is placed on the lease for five years. And more, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, we guarantee total exemption from IRS if these buildings are placed in the affordable lease scheme! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u467	They figure it out with the other people's money!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u468	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are very well informed about what the right comes here to say! What the right comes here is just a tax drop for the richest, mirrored, indeed, in the proposal of the Single Rate Liberal Initiative. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs Mariana Mortágua and Mr Duarte Alves, we have noted with great appreciation the questions they have raised about the IRS. I would like here to remind you of the extraordinary path we have made in the last five years at the IRS level: we have eliminated the overtax, changed the family coefficient and made a major reform of the steps in 2018, which allows us today to have more than 200 000 people to benefit from the minimum of existence and which allows Portuguese families to pay less than EUR 1000 million of taxes. That is why, next year, with this prudent budgetary path, some want to regret — but we will not — we will be able to make a large tax drop, in particular for average incomes, and at that time we will look at the steps, the specific deductions and all the other issues. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u469	During the speech of the Secretary of State, Mr Duarte Pacheco also wrote to this point.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u470	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Mr Secretary of State, he fled his mouth to the truth because he began by saying that the tax burden did not increase and then finally recognized that the government was aggravating several taxes in this budget.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u471	I didn't say that!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u472	Is the seal tax not aggravated? Unquestion me if I'm not telling the truth. The fuel tax, how is it? Is the local housing tax not aggravated? I mean, for you, there's only one tax: the IRS! And tomorrow, if you may have to move on it, they will even tell us: no, the tax burden must only be calculated on the tax on fries! [[PSD laughter.]] This is because, for you, the concept of tax burden varies according to the day and according to the taxes that you increase and change. [[PSD applause.]] But tax burden has only one concept and what you have systematically done is try to deceive Portuguese people because they exacerbate indirect taxes every day. See the fuel tax, the seal tax, the local housing tax... They are taxed on everything that moves, but these taxes are not paid by aliens, they are even paid by the Portuguese meat and bone. More taxes, more tax burden: this is your responsibility and your government. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u473	You have the floor at this point again, Mr Secretary of State for Tax Affairs.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u474	Mr President, Mr Duarte Pacheco, tomorrow we will have the opportunity to talk about indirect taxes, but I want to tell you that I do not know where you find any increase in taxes in this State budget. [[Protests from PSD Members.]] Mr President, the only thing I have read about this budget on tax increases was that the PSD wanted to increase any tax or create any tax. I have seen nothing strictly about raising taxes! [[Congrats from PS Members.]] Mr. Member, do you know what is the difficulty of your bench talking about tax burden? It is not the government's reports, the difficulty is the Banco de Portugal's report which is very clear about what is the structural tax burden and says something very simple that you understand very well: in the last period of your party's governance, all fiscal measures of legislative policy were in order to aggravate the tax burden,... [[PSD protests.]] ... whereas, so far, all legislative policy measures taken by the Socialist Government have resulted in a reduction in the tax burden. This is your difficulty, sir! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u475	We now move on to the discussion of Article 205. o — Addition to the Tax Code on the Income of Single Persons. To speak on this point, Mrs Margarida Balsairo Lopes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u476	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: There are thousands of young people in Portugal who actually enter the labour market but have low wages, can't rent a house and can't leave their parents' home. Therefore, it is always to welcome measures aimed at strengthening the emancipation of young people, such as the IRS for young people entering the labour market. But what is not understood is that this measure applies only to young dependent workers. No one understands why young lawyers, young architects, young designers, independent workers are not covered by this measure... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u477	In fact, many of them are in a worse situation of economic vulnerability. We therefore give here the opportunity for all the parliamentary-representative parties to correct a government measure which was allegedly good but which is, from a social and political point of view, perfectly unfair. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u478	You have the floor on behalf of the Government, Mr. State Secretary for Tax Affairs.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u479	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Margarida Balsairo Lopes, allow me two points: firstly, to thank you for giving the Government the opportunity to make a public clarification; secondly, to tell you, Mrs Balseiro Lopes — and you know it is sincere — that you did not expect the honourable Member to be able to ignore what I think the honourable Member knows. Member of Parliament, let us go to the parties: the IRS Young, which is proposed by the Government, relates to dependent labour incomes, because in relation to incomes of self-employment Article 31 ( 10 ). that of the IRS Code, which was also introduced by a PSD / CDS Government in 2014, gives any employee starting activity, 50 % tax discount in the first year and 25 % tax discount in the second year. Therefore, Mrs. Member, what was an asymmetry between the treatment of self-employment in relation to dependent labour income. What we are doing with this measure is to encourage the entry into the labour market with stable employment contracts, without moving into what is already in place today and that you wanted to add up to it.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u480	It's not the same thing!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u481	Madam Member, I'm sure you understand well, because you know tax matters and you know that. What we do with IRS Young is give dependent labour incomes the same treatment that we already give to self-employment. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u482	We now move on to the discussion of Article 205. o -A — Revoking rules under the IRS Code. Mrs Maria Manuel Rola has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u483	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The privileges granted in the tax system for non-standard residents amount to EUR 548 million. It is not far, for example, from the 600 million that the PS predicted for the existence of more than 25 000 public housing fires, which means that the State does not add a value that would expand three times, I repeat, three times the current budget for housing. But in order not to go so far I could simply respond to the necessary duplication of the investment in the public housing park, which has disappeared and which the government is sorry to restore. This is the injustice: it does not attribute to housing and keeps the benefits to non-standard residents. We also realize that there are those who do not care to sell the country to whom they pay the most, placing the public money for housing in the pockets of rich Europeans and in tax havens, as is the case with Mr Ventura. Nothing new, considering the origin of Mr. PSD. [[PSD protests.]] These tax havens we do not guarantee. We propose to end this pure privilege regime which causes gross inequalities and represents social dumping of those living in Portugal, to which the country must have the political courage to respond by repealing them. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u484	We move on to the discussion of Article 206. o — Provision of income tax on the income of single persons to the Institute for Housing and Urban Rehabilitation, I.P. Mr Hugo Carvalho of the Socialist Party is inscribed in this document. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u485	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the promotion of public housing policies is one of the priorities of the Socialist Party in this Parliament. Creating conditions to ensure that everyone can have access to a decent home is a responsibility that everyone must join us, an obligation of ours as a society. In the model of society in which we believe it is only possible to respond to the problems of the housing market with strengthening the role of the State, with public policies that do what the market cannot do, i.e. to defend the most vulnerable families and defend the middle class. The market, which many defend, the invisible hand that regulates everything, has done nothing more than build a speculative basis that tied adult children to their parents' homes, delaying their emancipation, and pushing families to the outskirts of their cities. That is why we understand that, without public policies, the market does not protect all families. It protects only a few families and excludes precisely the most deprived, the most vulnerable. As a Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party, we therefore intend to defend the strengthening of EUR 7 million for the Urban Housing and Rehabilitation Institute ( IHRU ), to which the EUR 180 million of the State budget will be added for 2020. We want housing for all and we know that, in addition to strengthening the budget, it is necessary to give greater predictability to finance housing policies in order to ensure, too, a medium- to long-term response to this problem. That is why we have come with a good alternative, the provision of tax revenue, to comply with this same plan. With these measures, we strengthen the IHRU and thus defend another response to the problem of housing. A public response, the only one that, without demagogy or populism, defends all Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u486	The discussion of Article 211 follows. o — Amendment to the Tax Code on the Income of Collective Persons. Mr Miguel Costa Matos, of the Socialist Party, is first inscribed. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u487	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members, on the one hand, have 31, 5 % and more 0, 2 percentage points, on the other hand 20 % or less 5 %, 2 percentage points. The speaker displayed two sheets with the numbers he referred to. What brings together and what separates these numbers? They're both about IRC. The first ones symbolize the fantasy of the maximum tax burden, are the highest legal rate possible and the increase in the weight of IRC in GDP between 2015 and 2018. The second shows the reality, the effective average rate, i.e. the rate that companies actually pay and the reduction in that effective rate, which, between 2015 and 2018, was the third largest in the European Union. When we talk about taxes, we should talk about reality, but let's not forget that contrasting these numbers is exposing two very different views about the country. in one, we have a country in balances, with low taxes, low wages and weak regulation, where we download the IRC blindly and leave the bill for those who need the most public services. in another, a country that cooperates with the private initiative to promote investment, innovation and decent employment; a country that shares, with justice, costs and profits and therefore lowers taxes to the extent that they contribute to these objectives. That is what the government has done and is proposing, and that is what the PS supports and defends. If, in the previous Parliament, we have increased the legal limit on the deduction of profits retained and reinvested in IRC from 5 million to 10 million, in this Budget we have increased it to 12 million and included in its scope the acquisition of companies, so important for productivity. If, in the previous Parliament, we supported SMEs (small and medium-sized enterprises) by reducing and breaking down the special payment on account, in this budget we continue to do so - extending the reduced rate of 15 000 to 25 000 euros. If, in the previous legislation, we reduce the price of social passes, in this budget its cost will be able to be discounted to 130 % of its value. If, in the previous legislation, we recovered the investment in research and development, in this Budget we renewed the SIFIDE II ( System of Tax Incentives in Business Research and Development II ) and included computer programs in the patent box, giving a tax discount to the most technological and digital sectors of our economy. So let's leave the fantasy behind and talk about reality. This is a continuity budget that supports SMEs, companies that invest and innovate. With this budget, we are strengthening convergence with Europe and improving Portuguese income. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u488	The next intervention is Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u489	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, Secretary of State Mendonça Mendes, let me tell you that you have shown here that arrogance and moral superiority are not an exclusive part of the Left Block bench. Mr. Secretary of State has been with me in this House twice. in one, he asked me to study, in the other he says I am inept, and this without knowing me. So I imagine he makes decisions about the proposals without studying the subjects. On this matter, I think we have been clarified! We have spent the last four years hearing that we are going to turn the page of austerity, that we are going to reverse all the measures of the troika and the question is this: all the measures of the troika? Turn all pages of austerity? Oh, my God! All, no, because the state spill, instituted as an extraordinary and temporary measure, is still in place and there are almost eight years.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u490	Well!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u491	Therefore we will propose its elimination so that Portugal no longer be the country of the euro area with the second highest IRC rate. And we will also propose that the end of the final maturity of tax damages should be completed because, in Portugal, this means that a businessman begins to pay the State even before recovering the losses he has had in his activity.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u492	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u493	He just wants to make the poor pay more taxes!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u494	We will put people before the state and approve these proposals of the Liberal Initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u495	Mr Duarte Alves of the CFP now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u496	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members, for the CFP, a fairer fiscal policy requires a reduction in the taxes on whom it works, on the lowest and middle incomes, on micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, appropriately taxing large capital. In IRC, we follow the extension of the reduced rate threshold, precisely because it is a measure aimed at micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, and even propose that the rate be reduced from 17 % to 15 %, benefiting the smallest of them all. IRC increasingly weighs on the total tax revenue. The large economic groups must be taxed more appropriately, and we therefore propose the creation of a new mid-term stopover in the state. But the biggest problem the country faces in this area is that the large economic groups that make their profits in Portugal can continue to transfer their headquarters to more favourable tax systems, fleeing the payment of taxes in our country. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u497	The CFP proposal aims to put an end to this situation by repealing all exemptions which allow this to happen. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, if the big ones pay the taxes they must be able to lower the taxes for all. It is in this sense that the CFP will continue to intervene. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u498	Mr. Secretary of State for Tax Affairs, Antonio Mendonça Mendes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u499	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, 30 seconds are allowed to tell Mr Cotrim de Figueiredo that there is no arrogance here. I would like you to look at proposal 830 - C, which, in substantive terms, I consider to be a political error,... [[IL protests.]] ... because the honourable Member proposes a single rate, he proposes removing all the deductions that exist today for families.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u500	Not all of them!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u501	What I am telling you is that, from a substantial point of view, I disagree at all, because you do not want to distinguish lower incomes from higher incomes. If I tell you this from a political point of view, from a technical point of view, I tell you that, in the way it is presented, this amendment is, from my point of view, unacceptable, but you will have an opportunity to review in particular. [[IL protests.]] I also want to tell you that we disagree with your proposal on the report of tax damages, because what we have today is a balanced system, which makes a distinction between small and medium-sized enterprises and large companies and which accompanies tax recognition with accounting records. This is not a system that moves away from any type of investment, it is not a system that increases taxes,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u502	Increase, yes!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u503	...is a system that creates transparency and gives to all Mr. Members of Parliament shall ensure that taxes are paid either on the basis of the contribution capacity of natural persons or on the basis of the profit capacity of the public. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to mention the very great effort that is being made in relation to small and medium-sized enterprises and that comes following the work done in the previous Parliament, either in terms of the deduction of retained and reinvested profits, or in terms of the elimination of the special payment on account. in this article in particular, one of the points under discussion has to do with the decrease of the special rate of IRC. We maintain this special IRC rate for small and medium-sized enterprises by 17 %, but we extend the amount at which these 17 % may affect. It seems to us a very safe step that we are taking in one more budget, in order to give companies greater fiscal competitiveness, in particular those which are part of the Portuguese economic fabric and which are mostly small and medium-sized enterprises. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u504	We have moved on to the discussion of the proposal submitted by BE to add Article 211. a -A — Tax on certain digital services. Mr Jorge Costa of the Left Block has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u505	Mr President, the economic context in which the social communication operates has changed radically over the last few years. Digital platforms have now concentrated around 70 % of global advertising revenue on an international basis. This radically alters the viability conditions of professional journalism itself. This is how the Block presents the so-called « Google rate », a fee on digital platforms, which is also under discussion in Spain and has already been approved in France. It is a small rate on the business of these digital platforms in the Portuguese market, but capable of producing a relevant recipe that gives a principle of responding to the problem of degradation of operating conditions and financing of independent social communication. In Portugal, a rate of this kind could raise about EUR 60 million to combat misinformation for support for journalism and to guarantee plurality of the media. It is this common good that is threatened today and it is for him that we need resources. That it is the digital platforms that benefit from this concentration - that is what is fair and that is what must be approved. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-04.u506	This concludes today's work in plenary, followed by the Commission, and the Bureau therefore votes for good work and stoicism for this afternoon. [[Tomorrow, the plenary will meet again at 9 a.m. and 30 minutes, with the discussion of the rules and their vote and the continuation of the discussion of the State budget in the speciality.]] I thank you, on behalf of the Bureau, all of us, for your understanding and for your good work. See you tomorrow. [[It was 14 hours and 47 minutes.]]
