ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, let's start the session. [[It was 15 hours and 7 minutes.]] Today we have on our agenda the 15th-year debate with the Prime Minister under Article 224 ( b ). the Rules of Procedure, according to the agreement of all banks, so we will start the work with questions from the parties. Before that, Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha will read the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u2	Mr President, very late for everyone. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, information that entered the Bureau, and were admitted, Resolution Projects Nos 394 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends to the Government measures to protect and support persons with disabilities in the context of the fight against COVID-19, which falls to 10. the Commission, 395 / XIV / 1. a ( BE): — Suspended word of Fest TV should double the budget of the emergency support line for arts support, which falls to 12. the Commission, and 396 / XIV / 1. a ( CH): — The creation and immediate implementation of the national plan of solidarity and digital literacy, which falls to 8. I'm done, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u3	Thank you, Secretary Maria da Luz Rosinha. We shall begin the 15th year debate with the Prime Minister under Article 224 ( b ). the Rules of Procedure. Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, from the CFP Parliamentary Group, has the floor for the first questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u4	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, contrary to what seems to be the impact of the epidemic outbreak we are facing does not make everyone feel the same way. Those who live from their work are being hit in a general and violent way, due to great difficulties, but the large economic groups are taking advantage of the epidemic as a pretext for accumulating profits, crushing rights, tearing micro, small and medium-sized enterprises and small producers and continue happily distributing profits by their shareholders. It is not enough to say that there will be no return to the policy of aggravating exploitation and impoverishment, the so-called austerity policy. There is a need to make choices to counter this policy and to defend the rights of workers and the people. It is now that these options have to be made to ensure that we do not return to these dark times. Hundreds of thousands of workers are being hit by unemployment, cuts in wages, increases in and out of time, lack of protection of their health at work, by all kinds of arbitrariness of the great patronage. It doesn't kill like the virus but destroys lives! The micro, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, small farmers and fishermen account for their lives with the reduction of economic activity, the reduction of their incomes and the difficulties imposed by the economic groups. The large distribution groups impose the ruin of small producers, crushing prices and hindering the flow of production. The bank denies access to credit or imposes ruinous conditions. at the same time, economic groups continue to distribute profits. Still this week, we have seen statements by the head of an economic group saying that it will distribute more than EUR 61 million of profits by shareholders, while demanding support from the State for the social communication group it is also responsible for. It's a scandal! The question that arises, Prime Minister, is what choices the Government makes. Will or will not the government take steps to prevent economic groups from determining the path of economic and national life? Will you or will you not take steps to defend the employment and rights of those who work? On 25 April, we will have the opportunity to point out the importance of the rights we have acquired with the April Revolution as a whole, but these rights must be realized in the lives of those who work for April. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u5	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister Antonio Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u6	Mr President, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, it is clear that the crisis exposes weaknesses and asymmetries. This was particularly evident in terms of access to school and the impact that the closure of schools had on different families, but it has also translated into abuses on the market—which led, in particular, to the imposition of limits on profit margins on certain products—and on the labour market. That is why, from the beginning of March until 20 April, the ACT (Working Conditions Authority) has already opened 1770 inspection processes and is carrying out an inspection action at national level. In the three days of this action, more than 700 companies were covered, involving more than 30,000 workers. In order to strengthen the means of the Act, not only were 12 inspectors already required to other inspections, but also, of that famous competition which we have spoken several times throughout the previous legislation, the 44 who were on stage and the 80 candidates whose admission was suspended through judicial action were already admitted in actual work. Without prejudice to the rights that may be recognised to other opponents, these 80 are now admitted and can enter full-time work. It is precisely because of the awareness that this crisis, neither today, nor tomorrow, nor after tomorrow, cannot be resolved with austerity responses that the priority of the measures we have taken has aimed at keeping companies alive, keeping jobs alive and supporting income. What we need to avoid at all costs is to add crisis to the crisis. We know that this health crisis has a very hard impact on the economy and, from the outset, on the income of families, so the first priority we have to have is to maintain this income, maintain jobs and maintain the companies that generate these jobs. So that will be our way and from here we will not furnish foot. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u7	Mr Jerónimo de Sousa continues to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u8	Mr President, Prime Minister, one of the major achievements of 25 April was the National Health Service. He is, in fact, the great instrument for protecting the health and life of the Portuguese and is fully proving his importance at the moment we are going through. It was not the SNS and we would be facing dramas like that in other countries, where the lack of a national public, general and universal health service is leaving the poorest people at the mercy of disease and death, because they cannot afford to pay health care. In Portugal, we found out, days ago, that private hospitals charge patients the price of masks and other personal protective equipment of health professionals. Anyone who does not pay does not have access to consultations or treatments. These examples confirm how important it is to have a National Health Service that provides quality health care for everyone, without making a distinction between rich and poor. This is the only way to ensure democracy in access to health.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u9	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u10	Therefore, we insist that it is necessary to invest in the SNS, in improving its equipment and infrastructure, in valuing its professionals and their working conditions. We hope that the problem that has occurred with regard to the payment of health professionals'salaries will be quickly exceeded and we stress that the professional appreciation of health professionals must go far beyond the insufficient wage update decided by the government by 2020. We also want to ask the Government about the investment that it is necessary to make immediately to strengthen the conditions for the protection and safety of health professionals. What measures will the Government take to ensure the strengthening of individual protective equipment in health services? The limitations on the provision of these equipment continue to create difficulties in the provision of health care and to force professionals to work in conditions of greater wear and exhaustion, seeing many of them forced to work longer hours to avoid the replacement of these equipment. Will the government take steps to ensure the production of these equipment at national level, with adequate certification and validation, or will we continue to depend on what we can buy abroad? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u11	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u12	Mr. President, Mr. Jerónimo de Sousa, we have been attending a National Health Service discrediting campaign for years in order to pass the idea of chaos in this service, but when the time of truth came and we face the biggest health crisis that the country has ever had to face, the National Health Service has given full, full response to the health needs of the Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And it's coming! I repeat, it's coming! Fortunately, we have not yet had to watch, in Portugal — and we hope not to come to see — dramatic images such as those we have seen in richer, more developed countries and even with seemingly more robust national health systems than ours. When the time came for the truth, it was even in the SNS that the Portuguese deposited their confidence in order to meet their health needs. [[P.S.'s applause.]] When many announced the rupture and failure to respond of the National Health Service, the truth is that today we know the fruit of the country's great collective effort to control the expansion of the pandemic, the extraordinary work of health professionals and the institutional response of the National Health Service. The truth is, we have never been in a broken situation, we have never been in a situation of insufficient response capacity. For example, over the past week, the bed occupancy rate of intensive care units has never exceeded 62 %. Nevertheless, we are strengthening the means, because it is not enough to lack the means today. It is essential to be aware that this is a lasting battle, that we will have an autumn and a winter ahead surely still without vaccine and in which we will not be able to maintain the level of containment we have had so far. So we need to increase our capacity. In the ongoing acquisition process for fans, we will double the number of fans in the National Health Service. Currently, we already have more 489 fans than those we had at the beginning of this crisis. However, we only have 207 patients admitted to intensive care units. There has been a massive acquisition of all that is personal protective equipment. I can tell you numbers: 11,275,440 surgical masks already acquired and 2,225,210 P2 masks already acquired. We can say it by hospital, by health region, by the various indicators. at this moment, we have, for suits, shoes, complete suits, caps, balaclabras, gloves, sterilized gloves, masks P2, masks P3, surgical masks, glasses, visors, necks and zaragatoas, on average, a reserve stock for two weeks, of all these products. We continue to acquire them - it is very important the question you put at the end - with great effort already from the national industry. This has been an effort that we have been increasingly refocused because we do not want to continue to depend on imports and we also want to support the capacity of autonomy and to strengthen national production.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u13	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u14	I shall now conclude, Mr President. Therefore, we have entrusted to several companies millions of units of various equipment, from masks to gloves, and also fans, both those of a non-intrusive nature, which were developed by a set of university institutions, both those that have been developed within the framework of CEIIA (Centro de Excelência para la Innovação da Industria Autovel ), with an intrusive character, or those that have been developed by the Portuguese Navy, also with an intrusive character. We have endowed the national industry with autonomy and capacity for the production of equipment, not only those we need but certainly those we will also be able to export. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u15	To open the stage of questions of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Porfirio Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u16	Mr President, Prime Minister, the Portuguese have given an extraordinary response to this pandemic crisis that has fallen to us. Not only are the health professionals, who are in the front line, but also the parents and mothers who are with their children, students, at home, social sector workers in various valences and all the millions of workers who had to continue to leave home every day to work, for the Portuguese to continue to have food, electricity and water at home, collecting garbage, street safety, medicines—to teach at a distance needed people to leave home to realize it—...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u17	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u18	... the country has, collectively, responded in an extraordinary way to this situation.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u19	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u20	The public school deserves a specific highlight in this context. And I'm going to use an expression that uses the people of my land: teachers have made « tripas hearts» to answer their students, not to leave them alone, not to let them off, not to leave them without teaching, not to leave them « without ground», and the country has to tell their teachers and their educators a great «thank you». [[P.S.'s applause.]] The schools reinvented themselves, made weak forces. A few days ago, I was told by a teacher, already at a certain age: “They said we were old. We are not old, we are more experienced and now demonstrate the strength of our experience." This is true and I think we have an opportunity here for the country to really realize the importance that its public school, its teachers and all those who work in education have for this country. Of course, in these circumstances, social inequalities and their impact on school have become even more evident. Of course, the measures taken did not eliminate inequalities, but their worsening would have been much worse if none of this had been done, if these measures had not been taken. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The fact is that the government has also done its part: it was the provision of school meals; it was the schools open for the reception of the children of priority intervention professionals; it was the adaptation of the evaluation to the circumstances, putting the evaluation to the service of learning and not the contrary; it was the contests held on digital platform, and the registrations, which will be made on digital platform; it was the bet on distance education, combining various resources, such as home study and video channels on the Internet, videoconferencing work, but—of course! — also other means developed by teachers, because the teacher with his class, with his students, is always the driving force of what concrete can be done in each school and in each class. Distance education, contrary to what many thought, is much more than technology, it is to know how to do, it is to know how to perceive the people in particular that are in that circumstance, it is to perceive the differences, it is to find the solutions and modulate them for each moment. For if we have been able to do this, in a coordinated mobilization, in which everyone has done his part, I would like to ask you, Prime Minister, for the future, as we shall do. As we collectively learn to live with the risk that COVID-19 represents, learn to live with what we learned again during these weeks, learn to live with those factors that made the school respond better, the autonomy of the schools, because it was the strength of the schools to want to answer that allowed this to be done, the flexibility,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... ( many teachers have told me that, because they were flexible, they were more prepared to respond to a situation like this), the bet on digital (is now published the plan for digital transition, which, perhaps, will even help us put everything more on the same boat) and the fight against inequalities? Mr. Prime Minister, the question is this: we have been doing what is necessary. And, for the future, what is the direction? Because the government has been a fundamental factor in these times, also in terms of public health, and that is how we want it to continue to be. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u21	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister Antonio Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u22	Mr President, Mr Porfirio Silva, as the people say, the need is to sharpen the engineering, and we, in a few weeks, have advanced years from the point of view of digital literature. The capacity of the schools and our teachers to respond to this absolutely extraordinary circumstance—we announced on a Thursday that, on the following Monday, the present educational activities would not have continuity — did not stop the school, did not interrupt the educational activity, did not interrupt the learning processes, on the contrary, the learning processes and the school knew how to reinvent themselves. This reinvention was a remarkable effort and teachers were able to keep in touch with their students in different ways: through digital platforms, which many of them used for the first time, through the phone, through the phone and even through the mail. But obviously, the level of inequality has become more visible. Therefore, to reduce this level of inequality, an additional step was taken, which started last Monday, ensuring a new valency, through the RTP Memory channel, with the Home Study program, for all children among the 1. o and 9. the year of education. This television offer does not replace but complements that work that continues to be done directly by teachers with their students. In addition to the general tribute to all teachers, I want here to send a specific message of support and solidarity to those 100 teachers who are face-to-face with all the teams behind them, preparing that programming daily. [[P.S.'s applause.]] They're not TV professionals, they're not theater actors, they're not cinema actors. They are not even politicians who have been exposed to television for many years. They are simply people who had the habit of being face to face with their students, in direct contact and feeling feedback and who now, instead of feeling directly their students in the classroom, are looking at a cold object, which is a television lens, imagining that behind those cameras are students who are watching them, and not the 20 who have in the room but a few hundred thousand who are watching them at that time. And they're exposing themselves, because they've stopped being in the news of their room to be subject to criticism, even cruel, petty criticism, that social networks are used to being pasture. We all got used to living with this, but normal people, who had normal lives, with common professions, were not used to it. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Therefore, if we owe thanks to everyone, today we owe a very special thanks to these professionals, those teachers who are doing their best to be able to take the school home to all those who do not have access to the computer or who do not have enough quality on the network, keeping up-to-date educational content. It is an absolutely extraordinary effort which I cannot fail to recognise and publicly thank here. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The honourable Member asked: "What about the future? Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Well, there is a future that has to do with the next school year and in which we have to fulfill our commitment: we have to start next school year ensuring universal access to digital platforms for all students in any region of the country, in any school in the country and in any year of compulsory education. This universalization of digital education must be ensured. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is not that we want the next academic year to be the continuation of the end of the 2. the e of the 3. the period this school year, but, as we know today, surely, we will have to live with the virus throughout the next school year, certainly without vaccine and very likely without therapy, and we must be prepared not to be surprised again by the unforeseen existence this year. This year was an unexpected one, in which we had to reinvent ourselves, but for the year there is no accident, we have an obligation to plan and act thoughtfully. And more: regardless of what the normal school is, the school will never be what it was. It will surely be a more digital school, where digital resources will become part of the day-to-day work tools between the student and the teacher, even in the classroom and even in the presence context. As for the next period, I hope that the information we will all receive on the next day 28 will certainly enable the Council of Ministers of the 30th day to take decisions on the timetable for reopening the present classes. We identify how it is possible to have present classes in this school year and on the 28th we will hear what scientists say. On the 29th day I will invite all political parties to a new round of hearings, so that we can all share, as we have done so far, views on the timetable for reopening. But in the strategy of progressive, gradual and secure defination of Portuguese society, the school component cannot of course be absent and, therefore, on the 30th day I hope that we can give a more concrete answer to your question, Mr President. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u23	The PS Parliamentary Group is still speaking, now by Mr José Luís Carneiro. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u24	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr Prime Minister, allow me a word for first of all to recognize the firm and sensible decisions of the Prime Minister and the Government to meet what has been an extraordinary requirement for the Portuguese state and society. It is sufficient to consult the legislative building that has been built over these two months and to know how much effort is needed to assess the implementation, monitoring and evaluation of the effects of measures on people's lives in order to be recognized by this parliamentary group, Mr Prime Minister and the entire Government for the efforts they have been making. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Secondly, I would like to acknowledge the wisdom of a difficult balance that has been achieved even in the state of emergency, the always unstable balance between the exercise of democratic authority and, at the same time, the safeguarding of personal freedoms, cultural freedoms, social freedoms and economic freedom. And, wisely, all the institutions — also the Government and Mr Prime Minister — have contributed, in a decisive way, to achieve this balance. I would like to highlight some of the examples of a concern that has been present since the first hour, the concern about the "breathing" of society but also about the "breathing" of the economy. There have been several measures, which are very important and have effects on our lives. First, the layoff, which saved nearly 1 million workers. Secondly, the credit lines of more than EUR 3400 million to inject liquidity into companies, but also the importance of supporting small and medium-sized business partners, guaranteed by the measures adopted, and also the agility and simplification of the measures aimed at the reimbursement of Community funds to micro, small and medium-sized investors of our local economy and our regional economy, as well as support for the activities of the agri-food sector, marketing and distribution. It has already been mentioned a very important note: the effort to monitor our national scientific system, allowing companies to reorient their productive activities to meet national public health needs and support, that we still had knowledge, startups and also culture, which are sectors of creation, innovation and which guarantee, when we begin to recover our economy again, that this recovery is done by incorporating value and not by low-wage policy. But I would like to mention the importance of the efforts of the Prime Minister, the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, to ensure that Europe has given an emergency response and that it is working to find an economic and social recovery response. Allow me, Mr. Prime Minister, to let you have two questions that I think are important and for which those who hear us at home want answers. The first has to do with the way in which the Government sees a gradual opening, in limited circumstances, as has already been mentioned, since after we lift the state of emergency, if there are conditions for this, the circumstances will continue to be limited, and so it will have to be done gradually, with much observation and with much control. How is the government planning to free our economy, the micro, small and medium-sized activities of local territories, of regional territories, in order to address the need for us to guarantee this capillaryness of our national economy? The second question has to do with our insertion into international life. Mr Prime Minister has repeatedly mentioned the importance of the value chain and how we should look at that international value chain. We would like to hear it about how these changes in the international economy are viewed and how our economy, the economy of our country, is seen interacting with these new circumstances that may result from this pandemic crisis, which has had profound economic consequences and serious social consequences. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u25	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u26	Mr President, Mr Luís Carneiro, our motto has been, from the outset, "the maximum containment with the slightest disturbance" because, of course, we are well aware of the exceptionality of the moment we have lived and that this exceptionality must always be applied to resort to measures in a necessary, appropriate and proportionate way to the goods we want to safeguard. That is why it has been very important the way in which the states of emergency have taken place, which we first decreed in our country, in 46 years of democracy, that they have been able to exist in a transitional way and with a very broad political consensus. This has also been a very important feature of how Portugal has managed this crisis, in an exemplary consultation between sovereign bodies, the Assembly, the President of the Republic and the Government, and also between the various political formations. This is a huge capital that the country has accumulated for its future, because the international press has not been careless about the copy of Portuguese political agents. This will be a huge capital for when we have to relaunch the economy and reaffirm our credibility with international partners as a safe country but also as a reliable country, and also for the attraction of investments that are fundamental in order to continue the path of modernization and internationalisation of our economy, with the creation of more skilled and better-paid employment. This is a work which, of course, also requires intervention in the economic area. If, in the first phase, the priority was to contain the pandemic without harming the economy, now the priority must begin to be to revive the economy without letting the pandemic be out of control. That is why we need to move forward gradually, which in my view should be a five-year trend, taking into account the period of symptomatization of contamination. We must move forward gradually, sector to sector, activity to activity, avoiding agglomeration at certain points or places, with a very critical management of the public transport network, which is the crossing point of all of us and where, in addition to measures to improve supply, we will also have to ensure an over-the-clock search.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u27	You must conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u28	I shall now conclude, Mr President. This is so that we can have May and June as months of transition to a progressive defination, with the awareness that defination does not mean, nor will it mean for long and long time, to return to the normality that we had before the month of February. Until there is widespread use vaccine and a collective immunisation of Portuguese society, we will not be able to have the normality that we had before. Therefore, we must make an effort to learn to live with the virus, with which we will have to live socially, as throughout thousands of years humanity has lived with other viruses. We know that this is new, we know that this is different and that it is particularly dangerous, but we have to learn to live with it. For that, all caution will be limited, both today and in the future. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u29	I have the floor for an intervention by the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Ricardo Baptista Leite.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u30	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : On 25 April, I would like to leave a first word of recognition to all parties with parliamentary seats for having managed to have the social sensibility to find a model — which I would say minimalist, because you will have even fewer Members than those in the Chamber today — in which the celebrations of 25 April in Parliament may take place, ensuring the safety of all but also respecting the feelings of the Portuguese who are in a state of emergency in custody. I cannot honestly think of a better way to celebrate April's conquests than by reconquering the freedom that has been stolen from us by this damn virus.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u31	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u32	Having said this, we'll also have 1. the May one, which could represent a health risk, but many workers — many of them social democrats, socialists, centrists and independents — took a responsible attitude in the UGT to cancel the demonstrations of the 1. May. Yesterday, they joined CGTP, certainly with the support of the Portuguese Communist Party, in an attitude that demonstrates that united we will be able to fight and conquer this virus. We have to get through this difficult time and we'll only get it together. People are tired, confined at home, anxious, afraid of the uncertainties of the future, of the economic and social impact. There are grandparents who don't know when they're going to hug their grandchildren again, there are funerals that happen without people being able to say good-bye to the loved ones they leave. For this reason, Mr. Prime Minister, he did well to meet with Cardinal Patriarch, Mr. Manuel Clemente, and I leave up to the recommendation that he do so with other religious leaders, Protestant churches, Muslim, ismaelite, Jewish and Hindu communities, so that, at this moment of uncertainty, all those who seek spiritual guidance can also have access to it, within the constraints we live. There is fear and anxiety in the face of uncertainty, which is normal, but in order to combat uncertainty we must give some light on what we can expect and the Prime Minister has already made it clear that the meeting on 28 April, with the experts, will be important for us to also hear recommendations on how we can lift some of the restrictions that society lives. Mr Prime Minister, for the Portuguese to understand what the plan is, I think this is also an opportunity to convey to us what their vision and the vision of the Government is right now for the lifting of these measures, which will have to be necessarily phased, so as not to take a false step and not to compromise all the effort that has been made so far, returning to the home of departure. Mr. Prime Minister, he ended up talking about our country's homes. From north to south, there are more than 100,000 elderly people living in these homes, some legal, some illegal. The Director-General of Health said that about one third of the people who died victims of COVID-19 were residents in homes. In fact, at this moment, within these institutions people are afraid, both employees and those who live there and who, even more, cannot even receive visits from their relatives, which in some cases has led to feelings of abandonment and loneliness. It is important that the Portuguese understand that they are not alone and that Parliament tells them that they are not alone. I quote some practical examples where the virus has already attacked and that at this time they need urgent intervention: this is the case of Larhotel, in S. João da Cula, where the people who reside there have to realize that they are not alone; of the Home of Commerce, in Matosinhos, where people are not alone; of the Home of Santa Isabel, in Vila Nova de Gaia, where people are not alone; of the homes of the mercys of Foz Coa, of Alverca, of Santo Tirso and so many others, where people are not alone. Therefore, Prime Minister, also to give hope to these people, I would ask you to pass on to us what is the government's plan to respond to the homes and to ensure that these elderly people, who have given so much to our country, can feel that they have not been abandoned, that they are not alone and that they can count on us. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u33	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u34	Mr President, Mr Ricardo Baptista Leite, we must make decisions based on the best information we have and we know of the precariousness of information before a reality that is new, even for the best scientists, who look at it with all their attention and make a huge effort to give us the best information available. I believe that the responsibilities of all, information and decision-making have been made clear throughout our regular discussions. I think it is legitimate for scientists to say: 'It is up to us to give us information, you have to make your decisions'. This is the function of the political leaders and we will be here to decide, with the information that is available to support it, waiting and trusting that the decisions are true, but obviously fearing that they may not be the right ones. That is precisely why we should be cautious and gradual. It is very important that we define the timetable, because it is the one in which we can not only have more solid information, which will be the one we will have next week, as we can already benefit from the knowledge of measures adopted by other countries - in Denmark, 15 days will be completed next Monday since the opening of the classes and Norway will have a week of experience since the reopening of the classes, so we will be able to know this reality more in detail - and we ourselves, who have never had a degree of confinement as rigid as other countries, will be able to evaluate what has been the impact on a set of activities, namely in the industrial area or in the area of civil construction, which have never been closed. Moreover, in the industrial area, many companies were closed not by decision of the State, except Ovar, but purely and simply by breaking up value chains or their customers. We have been talking to the sectors and still yesterday I had meetings with AHRESP (Association of the Hotelaria, Restoration and Similarities of Portugal) and with a set of entrepreneurs and institutions in the tourism sector, which is one of the most difficult sectors and is most victimized by this crisis. I have a set of working meetings prepared for the next few days, in addition to the hearings we will hold for the parties and also for the social partners. At the end of next week, it is important that we be able to give Portuguese society a timetable with the defining path. It is important for the people themselves to be able to prepare themselves, but it is also important for people, who are already in this wear, whether economical, loss of income, or emotional and mental fatigue because of confinement, to know that, more than there is a light at the bottom of the tunnel, that light can start to be seen and that there is a timetable for approaching that light. But we all need to be ready to go back, if necessary. It is a very important sign of trust that we give people when we say that we are going to do this but that, if we need to correct the trajectory and go back, we will go back.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u35	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u36	It is essential that the whole of society realize that, whenever we are releasing these activities, this does not mean that we are again as before. To walk in public transport, we're going to have to wear mask; to return to school, we're going to have to wear mask; to be able to open, restaurants will have to have a reduced lotion and hygiene levels higher than they had before. This is a burden, but it is a fundamental burden to give confidence, even because what we all realize, these weeks, is that the most difficult virus to fight is fear. This is reality and there is only one way to answer it, which is to anticipate the factors of fear and give people confidence so that they can face this reality. We are all concerned about the situation of households, of course, because they are places where there is a huge concentration of a risk group, but we must also tell Portuguese society once and for all that our elderly people are not at risk. They are, yes, exposed to a greater risk. We don't have to run from the elderly, we have to protect them. [[P.S.'s applause.]] When, in the state of emergency, we defined a special duty of protection, it was for the protection of the elderly themselves and not for the protection of society as a whole in relation to the elderly. People who are subject to compulsory confinement for the protection of third parties are those who are infected or those who are under surveillance. But not the elderly. The elderly are and must be collected for their own protection, because they are subject to a risk greater than that of the younger people and that they have no other risk factors are. That's why the elderly have to be more protected. It is true that the homes have had a lot of visibility. But, as Mr President of the Union of Portuguese Mercy (UMP ) and also Mr President of the National Confederation of Solidarity Institutions ( CNIS) said recently, the fact is that, in the entire population living in homes, we have so far had an infection rate of about 1 %. We would certainly not have had any ideal, but it must be borne in mind that, in a number of 100 000 people living in homes, we have had an infection rate that is about 1% of the population as a whole. Therefore, not wanting to devalue the severity of the problem, it is also necessary to define its size. The mortality rate has not been higher by people living in homes. The mortality rate has been corresponding to the mortality rate of that age group, and we know that, in fact, the mortality rate varies very strongly depending on the age group. Having said this, we are developing an action directed specifically to homes, mobilizing the university and political community, mobilizing all the resources of the National Health Service, mobilizing the entire private system that has been available, finally mobilising all entities. 8300 professionals have already been tested. We have a preventive testing program with 8,000 tests already carried out and we have the goal of reaching the 70,000 next month to cover all employees. It is that, let us be clear, it is not the elderly who infect themselves; the risk of infection exists in the entrances and exits. Therefore, the focus of testing is affecting professionals, because these are the ones that come in and out. But there must also be a very large training effort in self-protection and protection by professionals. As you are a doctor, you know the techniques, which are particularly complex, for someone to equip and disequimate. As many professionals have told us, the greatest risk of contamination is even at the time of taking off the protective equipment. Therefore, this training and knowledge are absolutely fundamental for the protection of professionals themselves and for the protection of the elderly who have their place in the various institutions. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u37	Even in PSD time, Mr Álvaro Almeida has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u38	Mr President, Prime Minister, we are all aware that the world is going through an unparalleled economic crisis — without parallel, on the one hand, by the dimension and without parallel, on the other hand, by the dynamics which are not fully understood yet and which lead to some error of perception. There are those who think — it is not the case of Mr Prime Minister, as he has already shown here today — that the economic crisis results from the containment measures and that there are those who think that, on the day the containment measures are brought to an end, the crisis disappears. Unfortunately, it's not like that. And this is not because the main factor that has an impact on the economy is not the restrictions on the supply side, but rather the restrictions on the demand side, which result from the fact that people are afraid to walk on the street, are afraid to use certain services because they are afraid to be infected. Therefore, a programme of economic recovery must, first of all, move on to dealing with the problem on this side of demand, creating conditions for confidence in the population to use all normal services, some of which Mr Prime Minister has already referred to, such as tourism and restoration services, but not only. I also refer to personal services, which are affected by this fear of infection and lack of confidence in health security. That is why it is so important that, when confinement is completed — gradually, as Mr Prime Minister has already said — these measures are accompanied by measures that give citizens confidence, including health measures, hygiene measures, protection measures for themselves and protection for those who are not infected. Mr. Prime Minister has already referred to the masks, to which I would also add the disinfection material, which is essential to contain the transmission of the virus. In this regard, I would remind you, Prime Minister, that last week the President of the Social Democratic Party presented here a proposal to reduce the VAT rate applicable to these materials, masks and disinfectant gel. So my first question, Prime Minister, is the following: does the Government consider reducing the VAT rate applicable to these materials? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u39	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u40	Mr President, Mr Álvaro Almeida, I was hoping that he would ask all the questions only once, because then I would manage my time better. I won't do it, so I'll be a telegraph. Yes, we heard Dr. Rui Rio's proposals, we've been working on them and studying them. We have verified that the European Union, saying it was illegal, said it would not raise problems, and that several Member States have followed up this letter aimed at reducing the VAT rate. Therefore, at the Council of Ministers this week or next, we will take this measure to reduce the VAT rate, whether on masks or on disinfection products. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u41	Mr Alvaro Almeida continued to use the floor by the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u42	Mr President, Prime Minister, these are positive news that brings us. I am aware that the PSD suggestions did not "fall into broken bag" and that they will be adopted for the benefit of the Portuguese. Mr Prime Minister, my second question has to do with sectors already mentioned several times, which are the sectors linked to the area of tourism, because they are probably the ones who will suffer more from this crisis, in particular these questions of demand I have mentioned. In fact, the International Monetary Fund foresees that the countries that will have the greatest fall in the product are exactly those where tourism has the greatest economic weight. We heard yesterday, Mr President of the Association of the Hotelaria de Portugal ( AHP ) say that he was discussing with the Government the possibility of creating a health guarantee seal, to give confidence to hotel consumers and thus make Portugal a desirable tourist destination, even in this period. Mr Prime Minister, I ask: does the existence of this health guarantee seal confirm? Is the government considering creating something similar for the area of restoration, which also suffers from similar problems? Even with regard to the question of restoration or, more precisely, to all those sectors of personal services which will be those that will have a slower recovery, I recall that most of the measures announced by the Government, including the credit moratoriums and the postponement of the payment of taxes and contributions, are measures that had a period of six months, so from September, these companies will have to pay the contributions and the credits they have not paid at this time. However, it is unfortunate that at that time there will still be difficulties in these areas and in others where the start will be slower so that companies can cope with these charges in their treasury. I therefore ask whether the Government is considering extending these measures to those sectors where recovery will be slower, since they are dependent on this demand for personal services beyond the six months foreseen. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u43	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u44	Mr President, Mr Alvaro Almeida, indeed, the key is in confidence, because we cannot establish the dichotomy between the economy and the pandemic - are two parts on the same side of the coin - we must also ensure simultaneously confidence in demand and capacity to respond to the supply. Therefore, the emergency response we gave was to try to freeze the resources so that they would be in good quality when we entered the phase of defrosting activities. That is why the priority was to keep companies, with all the measures we have taken, and to protect jobs and incomes. It is essential that economic operators leave this situation as best they can, to be ready to be active partners in the recovery phase of economic activity. in this phase of transition, we have very critical elements. So yesterday, we worked with the tourism sector in creating this seal of health guarantee, associated with a set of standards, and, on the other hand, with AHRESP, in developing a manual of good practices.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u45	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u46	I shall now conclude, Mr President. This manual will be developed in conjunction with the Directorate-General for Health, ASAE (Economic and Food Safety Authority ) and the Labour Conditions Authority and will provide guarantees, to those who work and to those who are customers, of full security conditions in different restoration establishments. I hope that this code of good practice is also attested to by the affixing of a seal in order to strengthen that confidence. Finally, Mr President, allow me to conclude by saying the following: at the moment, no one still fully knows what the fall of the economy is — we know it is brutal, but we do not know what the dimension is yet. I therefore believe that it is reasonable for us to wait until the end of May so that we can have a more accurate understanding of all the measures that will be possible to adopt at European Union level to support the recovery plan. at that time, we will all sit at the table and see how we can build an economic and social recovery programme that has the broadest political consensus possible and that it also has the broadest economic and social consensus possible to respond to this recovery phase.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u47	You really have to finish, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u48	It is, moreover, an essential condition for the supplementary budget which the Government wishes to submit to the Assembly of the Republic before the interruption of parliamentary work in the summer period. But for this, I believe that, realistically, we should wait for the end of May to all have a clearer notion of the size of the problem and the most appropriate therapy to respond to it. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u49	You now have the floor for the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Catarina Martins.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u50	Mr President, Prime Minister, we follow the idea that there can be no reopening of sectors without monitoring the health situation and without the public health conditions that protect all. We also accompany the enormous recognition to the National Health Service, to all health professionals who have been in the front line. I wanted to tell you that it was particularly unfortunate the mistake that did not allow the increase of 0, 3% to doctors and nurses. The government has already said that it would correct this mistake and we hope that it will do so soon. But I would also like to tell you that we continue to believe that these professionals — especially in health but not only — that they are at risk for everyone's health should be entitled to a risk allowance. I well know that the proposal that comes by the right hand has little credibility, even because a proposal from the Left Block on this matter has recently led, but this claim from these workers should not be forgotten. I would also like to accompany those who train the public school here for the extraordinary answer you are giving right now—with difficulties, I know that. The teachers have been tireless, there has been a great collaboration, there are problems that have to be solved, but it is undeniable the extraordinary effort that is being made by the school, the fundamental work that teachers are doing, of course also with the collaboration of students and students and of all their families, finally, of the entire school community. As for the school community, I wanted to tell you about the workers of the school canteens. It is that these workers do not work for the State directly, because this is a concessional service, they do work for temporary workers who hire them only among school holidays. This means that they never have time to guarantee access to unemployment benefit. They work from September to December, after January to March and then from April to June. Now these workers are being fired. They are being fired and have no support, no unemployment allowance, no social unemployment allowance, nothing! They're running out of shit! Of course, there is a structural problem here: they should never be hired by temporary workers. In fact, we should have banned temporary workers or, at least, limited these contracts, as the Bloc has proposed and the Socialist Party has refused, with the consequences in view. But immediate action is also needed. Not only are the workers of the school canteens, there are so many workers in this country to be fired and without any support. I make three very concrete proposals. Firstly, redundancies shall be prohibited in all undertakings which have public support or public contracts. This has already been done in other countries and Portugal has to move forward. Secondly, we propose that the guarantee deadlines for access to unemployment benefit and social unemployment benefit be reduced, which is the only way to reach these workers. Thirdly, an emergency measure of access to social income for those who have no support, and I am talking, for example, of domestic workers and undocumented workers, to the extent that Spain is imposing at present. I ask you, Prime Minister, what the Government thinks of these measures. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u51	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u52	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, I will reply in a more generic way, telling you this: firstly, I draw your attention to the fact that, when we say that the school has closed, it has closed but remains open in another way, because physically it remains for a number of professionals for whom it has been insured and even for others the school is producing and serving 13,500 meals a day. In fact, even now, since we have extended, in this third period, to students of step B of school social action, access to food, because we know well that for many of these children the food they have at school is often the best quality food they can have throughout the day. Secondly, we have adopted a very broad set of social protection measures, which add to those which our social state already has and which we have been strengthening over the past four years and also with the entry into force of the State budget for this year. For example, support for sick relatives rose from 65 % to 100 % since April 1, the day the State Budget entered into force. But in addition to these measures that already exist, that of social income, that of unemployment benefit, that of social unemployment benefit, that of the solidarity supplement for the elderly, that of the family allowance, we have adopted a set of exceptional measures, which do not replace those, and in these exceptional measures we have sought to cover all, but we will always see that there are some concrete situations where there are gaps. So, what we are currently doing is the comprehensive survey of all these situations, some that Mrs Deputies has mentioned and others such as, for example, for micro-enterprises who have their own employees and who are excluded or for many pre-existing informal situations, we have a good opportunity here to formalise their relationship with the social security system. I think it was a learning for many people who thought they were saving much by not contributing to social security and who, at this moment of enormous difficulty, realize that it is public social security that is here to respond to these needs of all. So we all have a duty to contribute to strengthening social security. Therefore, we are currently taking a look at these situations to see how we can cover, with justice and sustainability for social security, those situations that deserve protection and which, at this time, are still being unprotected. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u53	The Left Block Parliamentary Group continues to use the word. You have the floor, Mrs. Catarina Martins.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u54	Mr President, Prime Minister, there are surely two major lessons to be learned from this crisis: that the social state is the best that the country has and that precariousness is the worst because that is what protects everyone. We must have structural solutions and courage to take them, but we also need to respond to the emergencies, now, to those who do not know how to pay the supermarket bill for the week, and that is what I am talking about. I would also like to tell you about companies, because in these things there are measures of economic wisdom and economic justice, certainly. In Spain, there is no support if term or temporary contracts are not extended during the crisis ; Italy has even forced the reintegration of dismissed workers at the beginning of the crisis ; Denmark prohibits the distribution of dividends and, like Poland, does not support companies that are located in offshore; in Portugal we still have none of these measures, which are of basic economic wisdom. I would like to ask you, Prime Minister, about the dividends. The Securities Market Committee has warned of the danger of the sustainability of companies themselves to distribute dividends under current circumstances which no one could foresee when it set the remuneration of shareholders. This did not prevent EDP from deciding to distribute dividends above the company's own profits, i.e. the equivalent of 10 years of what they spend on the social energy tariff. Other large companies are planning to distribute dividends now. This week is the turn of Galp, who fired dozens of precarious workers right at the beginning of the crisis, which is now stopped and however intends to deliver more than 300 million euros in dividends to shareholders. The State has a participation in the Galp, will be represented at the meeting and I would like to know what indications the Government has given its representatives, i.e. whether they will vote against or vote in favour of the distribution of dividends. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u55	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u56	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, we have imposed the prohibition on redundancies and the prohibition on the distribution of dividends in companies to which we grant support, either to companies benefiting from layoff, or to companies benefiting from access to credit lines. Such undertakings shall not have any distribution of dividends or redundancies. For the rest of the economy, we should try to disturb the operation of the economy as little as possible and those that are the legitimate expectations. We did not postpone the increase in the salary for public service, because we felt that nothing justified in punishing public officials and because a State budget came into force that provided for its updating based on the value of inflation last year. We do not stop taking this measure, nor do we stop the increases that are expected for pensioners. We did not interrupt all the measures that were planned and were in force and there is no reason to prevent companies from distributing dividends if they are not benefiting from any State aid measure. In the specific case of a company where the State is indeed an shareholder, the State, as a shareholder, is very pleased to receive its share of the dividends to which it is entitled and which is useful to finance the activity of the State. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u57	Mrs Catarina Martins is still speaking. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u58	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, how can it be said that the priority is to maintain employment—and we could not be more in line with that priority, because every job now maintained is not only the right of a person but also the possibility of the economy to recover—and then think that it is more important that Galp distribute dividends than reintegrating the 80 precarious workers who fired from the Sines refinery? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u59	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u60	Because companies are firing, yes, and because public support is not just layoff. The tax benefit is spent by the State, it is support, and companies have tax benefits and fire workers. Let long-term contracts end, let the experimental period end without prolonging it during this crisis is to say goodbye, yes! And there are companies that are doing this and that are competing with Layoff. We can play with the words, but we have to look at the concrete situations: there are workers fired in companies that are supported by the state. The priority to save the economy of this country must be employment and wages and not dividends, which may well run away to the Netherlands or any offshore.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u61	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u62	Mr Prime Minister, I would also like to speak to you about the bank, because if we want strict rules for companies, we also think companies need support—we have said that nothing justifies, for example, that a partner-manager of a company, a microenterprise, an ATL (free time activities) or a coffee because they have two employees without any support at this time. I want to ask you about the credit lines. The initial line of EUR 400 million has already been exhausted and all other lines, even those announced to be made available during the month of March have been centralized in the current line COVID-19, whose rules were published only on April 2 and have not yet reached the companies, because the credits have to be approved by the banks, then are approved by a public body, the Portuguese Mutual Guarantee Society ( GSPM ), and this body only last Friday is that it has made these lines available and apparently with increasing bureaucracy. In good time, the Left Block proposed another model of support for SMEs (small and medium-sized enterprises), a model of relief, but finally the government felt that it was not necessary and that it would have these lines of EUR 6 billion...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u63	Thank you very much, Mrs. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u64	I'm really finishing up, Mr. President. of these EUR 6 billion announced only reached the companies about EUR half a million. So the question is: when does the rest come? I would also like to know whether banks will have rules on commissions and spreads because if they have State guarantees they should no longer penalise companies, moreover, they also have no or no interest in the ECB ( the European Central Bank ), so they are already sufficiently paid. Finally, Mr President, with your tolerance, one last question, which we have asked sometimes without account these days in Parliamentary committee and which we have not yet had an answer: does the Government intend to make a new capital injection into the Resolution Fund before we know the audit of the last capital injection in the New Bank? It is, from our point of view, that would be a mistake. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u65	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u66	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, the credit lines were precisely one of the measures we have taken to ensure better liquidity conditions for companies so that they can survive, maintain their activities and jobs and condition these companies that access these credit lines to them cannot fire...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u67	But let's say goodbye!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u68	...and, moreover, not to be able to distribute dividends. Secondly, the first line of credit that we launched in the first week, I believe, of the impact of this crisis, was a line of EUR 200 million that at the time everyone said had bad financing conditions, which did not serve the needs, but the truth is that this line of credit was exhausted, we doubled it to EUR 400 million and were exhausted. The new lines of credit have already benefited from the European Commission's commitments on State aid, which have, indeed, imposed rules: they have imposed minimum spread rules and minimum commissions to be charged by the bank, and these rules must be complied with. With regard to its processing, what has happened is that there has been a huge volume of demand. Only on Friday last year have 16 000 requests for appreciation entered the GSPM and a huge effort is being made for these requests to be answered by the end of this week. And they have to be carefully answered, why? Because having the guarantee of the State means that the State assumes responsibility for, having a problem of non-payment, it is the one who pays. However, we cannot be taking on the transfer of risks from the bank to the State or companies to the State without the State being at least cautious in the assessment of that risk,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u69	Certainly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u70	... because if we did not simply approve everything in one — and I do not say in the next — October's 15th debate, the honourable Member would be here asking me how we had authorized and given State guarantees to a company that had failed and that two days later had failed. That's a huge job, it's! Because, after these 16 000 requests that have entered last Friday and to which we are still going to respond this week, more 22 000 applications for participation in the credit lines have already entered, which means, firstly, the great need for financing by companies, but also has the other side of the currency which is very important: the will that companies must continue to keep alive, to continue their activity, to preserve their jobs and to get to the side of the tunnel and be ready to resume their activity.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u71	Thank you, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u72	What we have to do at this stage is to be able, with as much fairness as possible, to mobilize the resources we have at our disposal to protect income, employment and businesses so that, past this tunnel, we can effectively count on all economic agents for the economic and social recovery of the country with the least impact on employment and on the loss of income by Portuguese families. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u73	To put questions to you, Mr Telmo Correia, of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u74	Mr President, Prime Minister, I would like to leave you a first note on something I have said here today that has to do with the homes. Quoting, I think, the President of CNIS, Father Lino Maia, in a recent interview you gave, Prime Minister said that overall a good effort had been made. We agree, it is true, but it is appropriate to quote it in its entirety. In that same interview, he also said that there was a lack of protective material, that there was a lack of evidence, that health support was not enough and that — something I asked him 15 days ago — a fair review of the participation in relation to homes and the social sector. This was said yesterday by Father Lino Maia in this same interview to the Public — we can read it both again. In relation to the central theme we are discussing today, and still talking about interviews, because I have accompanied your many daily interviews and participation in entertainment programs, in radios, in government-friendly newspapers — we have followed very much all your interviews — some in particular, I have the idea, Mr. Prime Minister, that sometimes signs that may be a bit contradictory. And I ask you this question with all sincerity. Mr Prime Minister, in the last few days, has unfolded in statements about the day after, passes the expression, i.e. the post-state emergency. Institutional question, Prime Minister : if, in your understanding, the state of emergency is not renewed, which is somewhat what is assumed by what Mr Prime Minister has said, what will we turn to? We will pass from the state of emergency to nothing, recalling that Mr. Prime Minister, at an early stage, was not an acquittal of the state of emergency, we realized that, and did you think that the state of alert or even the law of protection and calamity would be sufficient? What legal framework will we pass, and no longer long—we are talking about May 2—if the state of emergency is not renewed? Secondly, and still in this context, I would like to know — and that would seem more important to me than the casuistic examples that Mr Prime Minister has given — which is the criterion for the progressive lifting of the measures. In fact, several countries have defined criteria for this purpose. I mean, what's the criterion? Is it the stabilization of the number of cases? Is it the absence of new cases in x days? And what is the model? Will the model be geographic? By sectors? Age? There are also some doubts there. For example, about 11. o and 12. the year, Mr. Prime Minister has already said; the 10th. the year was gone; as for you, yes, but as for the pre-school, no. Anyway, I know there has to be a criterion, but it's not quite clear yet. The Minister said that universities would open, but it seems that universities themselves do not want to open. So knowing what the criterion is important, just as it is important—and I end the first question...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u75	Is that just a question? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u76	I will also ask a second question about economics. I still have time to do it, Prime Minister. But, as I was saying, it is also important to know the conditions. That is, I think this can only happen if, in fact, there are masks available to everyone, disinfectant gel for everyone, sufficient tests, widespread serological and immunological evaluation in the population and guarantees of distance. I therefore ask you whether or not we are going to guarantee these conditions before we change the regime we are applying in the area of pandemics and confinement.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u77	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u78	Mr President, Mr Telmo Correia, I have asked several questions in the 'one' which you have asked me, but I am not going to give you just one answer, because I all deserve an answer. Starting with the homes, first of all, I do not think this is the phase of doing the ping-pong on who is responsible for acquiring what. There is one thing that I say: the State has acquired, has come to acquire and will continue to acquire all that is necessary to provide the National Health Service, the security forces and the Armed Forces with the means and equipment necessary for their individual protection. Bridge! I'm not saying anything else about this. [[P.S.'s applause.]] On the update, I must say that this year, of our agreement with the third sector, the update has resulted in an increase of EUR 59 million, of more than EUR 59 million. It is an increase of 3, 5 % knowing that last year inflation was 0, 3 %. I would say that, instead of 3, 5 %, it could have been 4 %. Yeah, but it was the contract and it's more than 10 times above last year's inflation. What is the criterion? I tried to tell you here last week when we discussed the state of emergency. What is the criterion of defination? First, and essential condition, citizens generally feel confident because there is access, in abundance, to individual protective equipment — masks, disinfectant gel, alcohol in the market. And when I say "in abundance", it means that we do not have to walk between the Union Pharmacy and the Eusebian Pharmacy, which is where I bought my gloves and my masks, pass the advertising, but that we can enter the supermarket and see that the shelves are masks of Community use — disinfectant gel, alcohol. It is absolutely essential that people have confidence that they can have this equipment. First absolutely fundamental requirement. Secondly, we have hygiene standards where people work, where they go to places such as restaurants, hotels or public transport. Thirdly, the confidence we have in the robustness of the National Health Service to respond to the case, which we know and that we have the responsibility to tell the Portuguese that inevitably will happen, to increase the degree of contamination, as we are removing the levels of containment. Therefore, we have to be confident that, if this happens, the National Health Service is there to be able to respond to everyone without risk of failure and that the robustness of the National Health Service should be measured not only by the ability to respond to COVID disease, but also by the ability to recover the work that was programmed and then cancelled or the service postponed due to the fear that citizens have had to resort to some health services. Of course, citizens have to overcome this fear and go to health services, because, moreover, they are putting their health at risk, not because of the COVID, but because of the non-treatment or postponement of the early diagnosis of other diseases, which unfortunately continue to exist, because the other diseases did not disappear with the essence of the COVID. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u79	The honourable Member will continue to use the floor. [[Pause.]] Mr Telmo Correia. Please, Mr. Deputy, and excuse me for this.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u80	I apologize for everything, Mr. President. [[Laughing.]] It's been common. Mr Prime Minister, another issue, as I have said, has to do with the question of economy and business. Mr. Prime Minister, we proposed another model in relation to the layoff, which has been changed. in some matters, it has come closer to what we defended from the beginning, but we also defend that the payment was made directly, until, finally, it would be faster to bring the money to the companies, and many have been the complaints of the companies saying that the money is not coming to them. What I ask you is whether the Prime Minister is in a position to ensure that on the 28th day the participation of social security will arrive and the companies will not be in a complicated situation with regard to the application of the layoff scheme, since the suggestion of direct payment has not been followed. Another issue, which has already been explored, but which I would like to insist on, has to do with bureaucracy in relation to credit lines. For these small businesses, which Mr Prime Minister has referred to, small family businesses, restaurants, hairdressers and so many others, we have even proposed the existence of a kind of deep-disaggregated support, a limited, assessed fund. We have made up this proposal, but that was not the criterion followed. The criterion followed was that of credit lines and there are complaints because this support is still, in fact, very bureaucratic: nine documents. Mr. Prime Minister says: "Ah, but there are many requests! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Of course, but that would be predictable. There are so many stopped companies that requests could only be many. Honestly, what I think, and the CDS even called the bank here — the auditions that have been made were on our own initiative...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u81	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u82	I'm really finishing up, Mr. President. As I was saying, the CDS called the bank here, but we cannot only place responsibility on the bank, because, from the moment that there is a State guarantee, the State is responsible for this and if it decides not to give direct support it has to ensure that this support is not bureaucratic and is effective.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u83	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u84	Mr President, Mr Telmo Correia, first of all, with regard to the participation of the layoff, the commitment that is assumed and that we will comply with is that all applications entered by the end of the first week of April will be paid on 24, 28 and 30 April and the remaining ones which have entered in the meantime will be paid during the first 15th of May. Secondly, with regard to deep-seated support: yes, it could be, but we must have the notion that we are not talking about the money of any of us, we are talking about the money of all the Portuguese people and, therefore, we must look at this crisis, but also after tomorrow this crisis. It is extremely essential that we do not start counting the coughs at the moment, but we must bear in mind that it is essential to respond to the health crisis, to the economic crisis, to the social crisis and to have the capacity to do this, sustainably, for a horizon that we still do not know what it is, and the worst thing we can do is to go back to some of these measures early. As far as bureaucracy is concerned, the required documentation basically aims to respond to two fundamental things: to the verification of debts to the State — in particular to tax debt or social security, because it makes no sense for the State to support those who owe it money — and, secondly, to verify the company's minimum economic strength, to understand that we are not supporting companies that were already without viability before this situation. It does not make sense that the State supports companies that were no longer viable before. Will some not be viable in the future? Perhaps, but it is our duty not to support those who, being not viable, must have the very fate of companies that are not viable. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u85	It is the turn of the PAN Parliamentary Group. Mr André Silva has the floor to ask questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u86	Mr President, Prime Minister, in this pandemic we have made very high personal and collective efforts and we cannot lose everything. We are at a critical point in combating COVID: decide when and how the containment measures will be lifted. The strategy that now appears to be possible is the implementation of relief and compensation measures, gradual, monitored and without yielding to sectoral pressures. This is where the greatest risk lies, and that's why we can't be in a hurry now. When it is said that the peak of the pandemic has already passed, it does not mean that we can relax, but rather that the containment measures have prevented an uncontrolled increase in new cases. Regardless of when it was peak, the important thing is the impact it will have, such as the bursting of a wave that will now reach the beach. What people in Portugal need to know is whether they are protected from this wave. The parents, teachers and students of the 11th. o and 12. the years and higher education need to have guaranteed security in returning to school; citizens need to feel confidence in going out on the street and returning to their lives, to public transport, to their jobs; we need to be guaranteed that the virus will be effectively monitored in the community. So, Prime Minister, I would like to ask you a few questions: will companies have clear guidelines and support for the implementation of their contingency plans? Are you going to have guidelines on the number and conditions in which your professionals can work? Will there be monitoring and monitoring of working conditions, ensuring that protection measures are complied with? Will the government guarantee serological tests to determine who is immune? Finally, and no less important, what surveillance plan is being set up for effective monitoring and protection of public health?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u87	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u88	Mr President, Mr André Silva, telegraphically, because he still has a lot of time for new questions, I will say, firstly, that, even if the peak, i.e. the moment of greater incidence of transmission has passed, the truth is that we have reduced the rate of transmission but we must have the notion that we continue to have more cases every day, the number of cases continues to increase. We have not yet reached the point of having fewer new cases daily and no longer new ones. Secondly, we will have not only contingency plans but above all rules of the Directorate-General for Health ( DGS ), which have already been made for the different sectors, and they must be monitored by ASEE and the Working Conditions Authority. We therefore strengthen the means of the Working Conditions Authority to do so. Finally, with regard to serological tests, I think we should use them very carefully. For an essential reason: serological tests basically aim to determine the universe of the immune population. Knowing that there is no vaccine as a form of immunization and that we have had a reasonable success in the containment of contamination, we certainly have a very low level of natural immunization. We know that it is true that there are many people who may be contaminated and who, being asymptomatic, do not have the notion that they are already contaminated, but do not come into the debate here that scientists have not given a complete answer, which is to know if those who have already been contaminated are not at risk of being contaminated again, there is at least one thing we also know, which is that at this time we have a rate of cases verified by about 0, 2 % of the population. However, we admit that the number of asymptomatic positives declines, i.e. 2 % of the population. Does this increase our degree of security? No, it doesn't increase our degree of security. Indeed, the spread of serological tests only makes sense in communities where there is a high rate of contamination and where, yes, there may be a high rate of immunization. Otherwise, I believe that it is manifestly premature an investment in this kind of test, which must be done at a stage where the likelihood of greater immunisation can justify it, but at this moment, with all honesty, I do not believe that its generalisation will allow us to increase comfort or confidence in our future. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u89	Mr André Silva continues to speak. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u90	Mr President, Prime Minister, did not answer the issue of the surveillance plan, so if you have the opportunity, I would like to get an answer from you. Portugal will face one of the biggest recessions in its history and each euro will count to ensure the country's recovery. What we ask you is where you want to seek the necessary financial resources. In the view of the NAP, one of the sources can be the EUR 850 million provided for in the Budget to cover the holes of the New Bank, holes, which, according to the European Commission, will have a huge weight in our GDP. What I ask you is whether in this context the Government intends to transfer these funds to the Resolution Fund. On the other hand, we have road PPPs (public-private partnership), in which, in the view of the NAP, the government can be more ambitious, although it has been well when it decided that it would not pay compensation due to COVID-19. This is because the road PPP contracts, in this year's budget, weigh about EUR 1500 million, an exorbitant value, given that Eurostat calculations tell us that the cost of these PPPs should be only EUR 340 million. But in the period from 2019 to 2040, it is expected that the State will pay for the EUR 15 billion road PPPs when the value of these concessional structures is just over EUR 5000 million, i.e. what we are going to spend in 20 years will pay these structures three times. Mr Prime Minister, in a context where each euro counts, will the Government follow the calls that have also come to you in a letter from civil society and take advantage of this context to renegotiate the contracts of road PPPs or will it continue to penalise citizens? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u91	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u92	Mr President, I would like to ask Mr André Silva, for better management of my time, that if I could, he would ask all the questions, because if not, then I will stop answering the last one.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u93	My last question is small, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u94	How?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u95	I left only a little question, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u96	All right! So, Mr President, on the issue you have raised about the surveillance plan, we are strengthening the monitoring mechanisms. If your question is whether we are going to use electronic surveillance mechanisms, I must say that we are not going to use electronic surveillance mechanisms, but of course we will continue to monitor development. Moreover, as we have said, we must have as much restraint as possible with the minimum of disturbance and therefore the State will not take the initiative to challenge confidence in the contractual relations that are established and that must be fulfilled, except when the state of emergency imposes, as imposed on the rights to contractual rebalancing during the period of emergency, the suspension of some contractual clauses.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u97	Mr André Silva continues to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u98	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, with regard to the epidemiological surveillance plan, nothing has to do with electronic surveillance systems, it has to do with epidemiological surveillance. The ratio of public health specialists in our country is about 1 to 80 000 people, when it should be 1 to 25 000 people, so we have few specialists. This concerns us and, therefore, we would like to know how an effective and robust surveillance system will be set up to identify and isolate people who may again be infected. Finally, Mr Prime Minister, I cannot fail to regret the lack of a sense of opportunity for some decisions of your Government. at a time when we are all focused on contributions to the fight against this epidemic, with the Assembly of the Republic, which has the power to monitor the action of the Government in minimal services, the Government does not attempt to move forward with controversial processes for the people involved, such as the cases of the Montijo airport, the Lisbon metro and the public consultation on the exploitation of lithium in Argemela.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u99	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u100	Mr President, a well-made and participated public consultation process involves meetings, field trips, audiences of populations and non-governmental environmental organizations. Making a public consultation process at this stage, in practice, is boycotting it and silencing the population,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u101	Please conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u102	... since all such actions involving public consultation are legally restricted due to state of emergency measures. What we ask you today, Prime Minister, is that you suspend the public consultation process and resume it at the end of the state of emergency, lifting the restrictions we live in.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u103	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u104	Mr President, Mr André Silva, I am glad to reply to you and answer a question that I have forgotten to answer to Mrs Catarina Martins. The audit we have determined about the New Bank is under way, it will only be completed in July and it is essential for us to take the decisions that we have to take in terms of what we are hired. With regard to public investments, there is no reason to question them, there are reasons to pursue them, and they must be continued, whether the expansion of the metro lines, which are fundamental to improving public transport and defending the climate change programme, or equip the country with the infrastructure essential to the functioning of its economy and internationalisation, as is the case with the international airport in Lisbon. Finally, I would like to draw the attention of the honourable Member to the fact that one of the measures taken by the Government was the suspension of procedural deadlines, in particular the proceedings in public consultation. Therefore, with regard to the exploitation of lithium in Argemela, the deadline for the public consultation is suspended and so will remain as long as we keep the suspension of procedural and procedural deadlines in force. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u105	It's the Greens' turn. You have the floor to ask questions, Mr José Luís Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u106	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, in view of the situation we are experiencing, the priority is of course to continue the measures to prevent and contain COVID-19, which also involves the acquisition of protective equipment for the people on the front line. And in this regard, the Greens hope that the Government will urgently solve the problem of low wage increases for health professionals. But in addition to the need to strengthen the National Health Service, it is also necessary to protect employment, guarantee rights and hold micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, because our collective future will depend heavily on how the government today manages the survival of small businesses and prevents more layoffs. in this context, it is imperative to take measures that guarantee jobs and put a brake on the working rights that many of the large companies continue to do, in particular with abusive redundancies and indiscriminately abusing layoff. And, speaking in large companies, Mr Prime Minister, I would like to leave my question to you, because, as you know, the subject has been mentioned today, in fact, some European countries are failing to support offshore companies. What I ask is if it does not seem to you that it would also be entirely fair for our country to see the support for companies that hide in tax havens so as not to pay taxes in Portugal. Does the government weigh, or not, align in this battle? On the other hand, Prime Minister, The Greens are very concerned about the survival of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises and, therefore, we want to leave some questions on them. First of all, it has to do with managers, workers and layoffs. Initially, the managers were left out of support; then the government allowed those who had no workers to benefit from support and, nevertheless, only if they had a sales volume of less than €60 000 per year. But the managers who employ workers remain without access to that support. Mr Prime Minister, what does it mean to grant such support to managers of small businesses who are both workers and, in this capacity, have made their discounts? It seems to us that, apart from being a gross injustice, we are still penalizing small entrepreneurs who have created jobs. What I am asking is whether the Government is planning to extend support to all managers of small business workers and whether it is also considering extending this limit of €60 000. Secondly, we also believe that the Government should have ensured access to credit lines for all companies meeting legal requirements. It follows that the government has left the banks with the ability to decide on these accesses, even if the companies concerned meet the legal criteria. However, the maintenance of this discretionary power in the banks, coupled with high spreads and the imposition of unacceptable conditions, is pushing many of the small companies to close. Finally, Mr Prime Minister, the closure of the restoration sector and local markets and the cancellation of fairs have completely eliminated any channels of flow of the products of small and medium-sized farmers. What I am asking is what solutions the Government is considering in order to respond to these very serious problems in the flow of production from the many small and medium-sized farmers who are facing great difficulties today. [[Congrats from PCP MP João Oliveira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u107	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u108	Mr President, Mr José Luís Ferreira, first of all and with regard to support, these support is intended mainly for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, none of which is based in tax havens and the rules that are adopted provide for such control. Secondly, I have had the opportunity to say recently that, in view of the set of extraordinary measures that have been approved, we have been moving forward and updating these measures and seeking to fill in some gaps that we have seen. We are making an assessment of the whole of these situations, whether of people who had informal relations and without social security discounts, whether of people who did not have the sufficient warranty period, or of the situation he referred to, of the members-managers who, having their own employees and being themselves workers, are not covered by the support we give to the self-employed, to see to what extent we can solve them in a fair, just and sustainable way for social security. On the issues you have raised about small producers, there is a set of measures that have been adopted, and they have been adopted with the producers themselves. In the first week of April, EUR 40 million was introduced into the treasury of all agricultural activities and, in particular, in relation to the milk sector and cheese production, a set of measures, with applications, amounting to EUR 31 million was approved. In addition, we have been working with the European Commission to allow extraordinary measures to support the agricultural sector. As far as distribution is concerned, work has been done with the large distribution, to allow a set of such production to be channelled to the market, so that the continuity of the activity of this sector, which is absolutely essential, can be ensured. There are then more difficult subjects, but they are also being managed, with regard to the opening up of borders and the existence of migration channels, which are essential not to lose a set of crops in some regions and in some agricultural activities, where foreign labour has suffered a shortage of national labour over the last few years to meet and meet these needs. This has been worked out, in particular in conjunction with the Minister of Internal Administration, and already within the framework of a decision which has been reached at European Union level, that there may be an exceptional opening of external borders for seasonal work so that these crops are not lost. The situation is several and the most urgent is certainly that of the harvest of the cherry, in the Fundão, but others will follow and, therefore, we have to ensure these channels and solve this problem, under the penalty of losing much of the agricultural production this year. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u109	It is Mr Ventura's turn to ask his questions. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u110	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, said that it makes no sense for the State to place money on companies that owe money to the State. I ask you whether it makes sense for companies to put money when the state owes them money. And this is an issue to which Mr Finance Minister has not been able to answer me, and I must therefore do this again today. Today, the State is the largest debtor to many of these companies, especially in the health sector. The Minister for Economic Affairs said last year that they were thinking of an accelerated payment plan. How much have we paid? How much do we owe? How can we ask for confidence when we do not pay companies what the state owes them?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u111	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u112	Mr. President, Mr. André Ventura, you are right. We are making a huge effort to speed up payments and, for example, I can tell you that under the payments from Portugal 2020 we have already made a recovery of 300 million euros that were being paid and are already in the treasury of companies. It is an effort we are making because, in fact, the best way to support companies is to do what we have to do with what we owe to companies. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u113	Mr André Ventura continues to speak. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u114	Thank you, Prime Minister. It was important that this be done quickly. He welcomed — and well — the effort of the National Health Service. We must not forget the thousands, but millions, private sector workers who also struggle every day to keep this country standing, particularly in the health sector, and to pay their taxes. Mr. Prime Minister, you spoke in confidence, but we cannot say in Cristina's programme that there will be no austerity, in the Goucha programme that there may be austerity and in Maya that there may or may not be austerity. [[Protests of PS Members.]] So, Prime Minister, I'd like to ask you something directly. You might say you don't know yet that supplementary budget we're going to have, but you have to have an idea. Are we gonna cut pensions? Are we going to pay the Christmas allowance this year to public servants? Are we going to have to increase the IRS (tax on income of natural persons)? Are we going to have to increase VAT (value added tax)? You have to have an idea and something you have to be able to tell us right now. [[PS, PCP and ENP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u115	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u116	Mr President, Mr André Ventura, first of all we must respect the health, education, the private sector, the armed forces, the security forces. We must respect everyone and thank everyone for the enormous work they are doing. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I may have bad ideas, but I don't usually change my ideas from Monday to Friday. Therefore, I had the opportunity to say, in an interview with the Observer newspaper, in an interview with the Lusa Agency, in an interview with the Express newspaper, in the programmed Cristina and in every place where I am asked, that there will be no austerity measures. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is appropriate not to confuse titles that I do not write with the answers I give, because regarding the interview to the Express, to the question of austerity, I respond in a clear and unequivocal way to those who want to read in good faith. To the question of whether there will be austerity measures, I say: "It was a bad idea and it would be a bad idea. The country does not need austerity, it needs to relaunch the economy». [[P.S.'s applause.]] I hope this is the last time I have to clarify that this title is not mine and that the question here does not correspond to the answer you are here, because the answer here is another question which is not here. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u117	Mr André Ventura continues to speak. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u118	Mr. Prime Minister, I am sorry that this is not the last time you have to talk about it, because you have to talk about at least one more. In the Public Journal, on April 18, 2020, it says : « Austerity? I will not give an answer now that I cannot tomorrow... »...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u119	Liar!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u120	Is that a lie, too? Oh, my God! Mr. Prime Minister is a pursuit of the media! I thought it was me, but after all, it is Mr. Prime Minister who is a pursuit of social communication! [[PS protests.]] Mr. Prime Minister, if I may, I ask you, eyes in your eyes, as I know you like: is this title also a lie?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u121	Mr. Prime Minister, you have the opportunity to answer. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u122	Thank you very much, Mr President. This news from the Public repeats this title of the Express, which reads as follows : « Austerity? Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Then put in quotes an answer that I gave to another question that is not this. I can't look him in the eyes and read, but be careful. I will turn to you and repeat the answer I gave to the Express on the question of austerity: "It was a bad idea and it would be a bad idea. The country does not need austerity, it needs to relaunch the economy». If you hear what I've already told the Observer and the Lusa, it's exactly the same.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u123	It's better to draw a picture!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u124	Thank you very much, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u125	Austerity is not the way to respond to a crisis that needs no austerity. This is not a state finance crisis, this is a health crisis that is impacting the economy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u126	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u127	What we have to do is support the economy, businesses, families, income, employment, investment increase so that we can relaunch the economy. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u128	Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u129	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u130	Mr. André Ventura, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u131	Mr President, to make an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u132	An appeal to the Bureau? About the conduct of the work?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u133	Yes, Mr. President. [[PS and ENP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u134	But what about the conduct of the work?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u135	That's what I'm going to say now, right away. I can't tell you before, if you don't give me the floor. [[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u136	But you have to tell me before you give him the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u137	It is very simple, Mr President. I would like to ask you whether Mr. Prime Minister has unlimited time in these sessions, because it really is beginning to be incredible. Mr. Prime Minister talks about how much time he wants, how much he wants and how much he wants.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u138	No, time is the same for everyone. Time is set.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u139	Excuse me, Mr. President, it's not being correct. [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u140	Mr President, you know perfectly well that there is a margin of tolerance for all, even for yourself that has exceeded the amount of time you have at your disposal by more than 50 %. To put questions, Mr. Deputy of the Liberal Initiative, João Cotrim de Figueiredo.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u141	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, liberal elections in time of emergency. Question No 1 on the subject of mortality data. I have two points of observation: the mortality data on the DGS mortality surveillance platform ceased to be published weeks ago. Why? Maybe Mr. Prime Minister can explain. However, yesterday, the National School of Public Health published a study and says that only in the last month, which ended last week, there are more than 615 deaths to which no specific cause can be attributed and which are therefore left to explain. They may be an underestimation of the dead of COVID, it may be a second public health crisis of all other chronic diseases that are being treated. As long as we do not have confidence in this data it is not possible to define an exit strategy and it is not actually possible to rely on each of these numbers. Mr Prime Minister has already shown concern about this and the concrete question I am asking is the following: when can reliable numbers allow us to plan a way out?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u142	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u143	Mr President, Mr Cotrim de Figueiredo, on Tuesday you will have the excellent opportunity to put to the Directorate-General for Health all the doubts you have. There's one thing you know: I'm not a doctor, I'm not in a lab, and so I don't register. Secondly, I have no intervention in this process, nor do I publish the data. I know the data, as you know, and you can ask anyone rightfully to explain it. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u144	Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo continues to use the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u145	Mr President, Prime Minister, as you know, you have already heard me ask exactly this. Still no answer, we'll keep waiting. Second question of the liberal elections in time of emergency: you say you want to protect employment and businesses; however, not at this time of crisis the socialist bureaucracy can take the claws out of the process. I give only three examples, because it could be here all afternoon: the GSPM asked for two documents, now asks for nine; the State asks companies to confirm that they have SME certificates, and it is the State itself which gives them; the ACT is on top of the companies asking, with absolutely unrealistic deadlines, to provide information when companies just want not to close. Mr. Prime Minister, do you not find yourself a socialist who knows how difficult it is to manage a company to simplify this and not walk on companies like this?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u146	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u147	Mr President, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, I will give you some bitter news: it was the socialists who invented the Simplex and it was the Liberals who put it in the drawer. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u148	We have thus reached the end of the 15th-year debate with the Prime Minister. We will enter the second item on the agenda, which is part of the preparatory debate of the next European Council, with the participation of the Prime Minister, under Article 4(1) ( a ). the Law on Monitoring, Appreciation and Pronunciation by the Assembly of the Republic in the framework of the European Union Construction Process. For the Government, Mr Prime Minister has the floor to open the debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u149	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The European Council of tomorrow is particularly important and has two fundamental themes. Firstly, it is necessary to be able to complete the work opened by the Eurogroup, enabling the three emergency responses to the financing needs of companies, through the feasibility of a European Investment Bank line of EUR 200 billion, to support the urgent financing needs of States to respond to the crisis of COVID-19, through a line of EUR 240 billion mobilizable from the European Stability Mechanism ; and finally by making it possible to approve the Commission proposal of the European Temporary Support Instrument to mitigate the risk of unemployment by EUR 100 billion. These three measures, which together amount to more than EUR 500 billion, are a first phase of the European response, are the response of the emergency. I would like to congratulate here on the fact that the Eurogroup, after a difficult birth, has succeeded in obtaining the necessary consensus to make all these measures viable. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In addition to the emergency phase, however, it is urgent to prepare the recovery phase and, in the face of a global crisis, the response must be comprehensive at the European Union level.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u150	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u151	For this to happen it is essential that this answer has the necessary financial muscle. Some say that EUR 1 billion is needed, the European Commission estimated at EUR 1 5 billion, the European Central Bank estimated at EUR 1 6 billion. Whatever the correct estimate is the muscle that is necessary for us to have this joint response. the European Council is essential for a strong and clear message to be sent to the European Commission so that it can, as soon as possible, prepare this recovery fund for the European economy. After the health response, it is essential to respond to the economy, employment, family income, ensure the ability to restore the internal market and that the internal market maintains a high level of prosperity throughout Europe.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u152	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u153	Obviously, there is agreement on the content of what we have to decide, as always, the greatest difficulty lies in the apparent details of the decisions. The first question to decide is whether we are going to create a new autonomous management fund or whether we are going to create it in the context of the multiannual financial framework. Our answer is clear: the fund must be set up in the context of the multiannual financial framework in order to avoid a tough ratification process by all Member States. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It also has the advantage of being a « two-in-one » solution, i.e. it allows to unlock the impasse which, for many months, drags into negotiations on the multiannual financial framework and, on the other hand, enables the European Union to provide an economic recovery programme. The second question is: how will this fund be financed, which, by its amount, requires very large resources? Certainly, at this stage, Member States are not in a position to ensure the full completion of this fund with their resources. It should therefore be followed by the model already adopted by the Commission for the creation of the employment support mechanism through the European Commission's debt issue, even if it is guaranteed by the Member States. This European debt issue is essential for the rapid establishment of a fund with the magnitude of what we are talking about, i.e. between EUR 1 and EUR 6 billion. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The third issue which is essential to see resolved is how the funding of this fund is distributed by the different Member States. I would even say that this is the critical issue. We understand, of course, the constitutional limitations of some States on transfer mechanisms, but we also know, even by experience, the financial limitation of other States on transfer mechanisms. Therefore, our answer is clear: this transfer must be ensured, as is normal in the context of the multiannual financial framework, through transfers of grants and not through loans, although we cannot exclude — and do not exclude it — that for some programmes the form of loan may be the most appropriate. What is essential is that we be able to have a good balance that guarantees everyone what is needed to ensure: access to the financing they need to ensure the full recovery of their economy. As far as we are concerned, knowing the high level of indebtedness that the country still has, it is essential that non-refundable grants be strengthened, strengthening cohesion policy, strengthening the budgetary instrument for convergence and competitiveness, strengthening the common agricultural policy and not increasing or limiting access to this fund through loans. [[P.S.'s applause.]] No, we can't be indebted anymore. The answer we must have is an answer that guarantees our effective ability to make use of this fund. As has been remembered, this was a symmetrical crisis in the causes, but unfortunately, it is asymmetric in its effects. It is asymmetric, of course, because the productive structure of the different countries is not identical. Less central countries, where the need for air transport is more important, countries with discontinuous territory, where air transport is more important, are, of course, more exposed to the crisis of air transport at European level. Countries where the weight of tourism is most relevant are also more exposed to this crisis. But above all, because the financial and economic conditions of the different countries are not the same, we must ensure that everyone has the same conditions to respond to this financial crisis. A country that is most indebted does not have the same conditions to access a loan as a less indebted country. A country with more budgetary capacity has greater capacity for State aid than a country with less budgetary capacity. And there is no level playing field in the internal market when a State has the ability to support a single company with EUR 2 billion, the value with which Portugal is supporting all companies and all families throughout the month. Thus, there is no internal market with equal rules for all. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is therefore necessary to mobilise the Community budget, to provide it with the necessary funds, and it is essential that this debt issue be issued at European level. The recovery programme must be consistent with the priorities we have set. It is true that reality is new, but priorities are the same.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u154	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u155	The transition to digital society remains a priority, the fight against climate change continues to be a priority, and therefore the recovery programme must be based on strengthening digital, strengthening green, because we will only be consistent with what needs to be done. [[P.S.'s applause.]] To conclude, Mr President, it is necessary to say very clearly the following: either we share the recovery effort or we will all be here to share the losses of recovery. in this issue it is not solidarity, but rationality, because what is at stake is fragmentation or unity of the internal market, what is at stake is recession or prosperity in the internal market, and this does not benefit or is a concern only of the countries most affected by the crisis.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u156	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u157	I very much conclude, Mr President. This must be the main concern of the countries that benefit the most from the internal market, because it will be the ones that will lose the most with fragmentation or with the impoverishment of the same market. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u158	I now give the floor to Mrs Ana Catarina Mendes of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u159	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In fact, Prime Minister this will be a very important European Council, since the crisis we are experiencing is not a crisis created by any Member State, it is not a crisis created by European institutions, it is a health crisis to which an inevitable economic and social crisis is being added. In fact, in his words, we do not need to add any more crisis to these crises and we do not even need to add a crisis of indebtedness to the framework in which we are living right now. We do not need to add to the different national crises a European political crisis that could call into question the European project itself. in a short time, given the usual slowness of the European decision-making process, it is imperative that we all recognise today that we have achieved an emergency support package which cannot and should not be devalued. These support runs from the EUR 37 million investment programme to support the liquidity of health care companies in the purchase of public debt by the European Central Bank, with the injection of EUR 750 million and the flexibility of restrictions on the same purchase ;...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u160	It is 750 billion euros!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u161	... the provision of medical equipment and materials; the financing of research for the search for medicinal products and vaccines for COVID-19; the opening of green corridors so that essential goods and goods could not be missed and circulated; and also the repatriation of citizens through the European civil protection mechanism or even the flexibility of the use of structural funds by the Member States. [[P.S.'s applause.]] If we do not ignore any of these measures or any of these efforts, we do not ignore the very positive achievement achieved by the Eurogroup in the three instruments amounting to EUR 540 billion, without conditionalism, to protect companies and jobs and to help countries support their public accounts. Please note, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, that was not what happened 10 years ago. In the crisis of 10 years ago, it did not respond with this speed, nor did it respond with a package that would respond immediately to the crisis. But the truth is, for the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, if much has been done, it is not enough, and we know that the European answer has and must go much further! That is why at an exceptional time we must have innovation, but also exceptional answers. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is absolutely emerging to revive our economy and, therefore, it is imperative that, even at this emergency stage, we can begin to define the future of our economic recovery. It is even emerging to resume and relaunch the economy and, therefore, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group advocates the existence of a robust recovery fund capable of responding to the asymmetric form—some time ago, the Prime Minister also referred to it—as the crisis is taking place in the different Member States, and that, therefore, once again, some of the fundamental values of the European project are assumed. It is not only rationality and common sense that must prevail, but also the values of solidarity and cohesion, which we must once again have absolutely present in our political discourse. [[P.S.'s applause.]] A fund is needed, Mr Prime Minister, which guarantees the ability of each Member State to decide again on its future. We do not need to add to the challenges of recovery the bonds of debt, we do not need to build the future with one hand, compromising it with the other. No, this is not the time for many Member States to take tactics, it is the time for a political strategy to combat an unprecedented crisis in the European Union. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The expectation of many, and also that of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, is the expectation of the confidence that has been emphasized in the Portuguese Government, in the way it has, over this time, added credibility, in the way in which it faces the challenges in the European Union, because we know that there are no selfish or national responses, there are solidarity responses and strategic responses within our European project. It is therefore necessary to draw up an economic and social recovery programme financed by the European Union budget. We need a recovery fund financed by loans from the European Commission, on behalf of the European Union, in the form of life-long debt or very long-term debt, with guarantees only and only provided by the budget of the European Union itself. But we also need, as the Prime Minister stressed, to ensure a fair distribution of this fund among all Member States, respecting the various balances at stake. We need — I would like to stress — a distribution made on the basis of grants rather than loans. The European response will have to create conditions for the relaunch of the European economy, not only the economy of each of our States, because the strength of everyone gives strength to the whole of the European Union. And this response should take into account the need to strengthen some policies that the crisis proved to be unacceptable and that were, and are, included in our programme. It should therefore ensure the strengthening and conditions for the implementation of the European Green Pact. It should therefore include an industrial recovery policy, guaranteeing European sovereignty in strategic value chains and valuing the transition to digital. And it will have to restore the functioning of the internal market, which implies fiscal harmonisation and flexibility of European rules. We therefore need Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members, to draw up and approve a robust European response to help people, because that is our purpose, and to help states, to help businesses and to help jobs. That he will help in the present, but that he will guarantee the future. from the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, we will not give up in seeking this answer and in this answer we will not give up in pressing and coordinating efforts to support a reconstruction decision without indebtedness. So we'll have a future. And it is in this struggle that the Portuguese Government can fully count on this parliamentary group. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice-President Antonio Filipe.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u162	You now have the floor, for an intervention, Mrs. Depute Isabel Meireles, of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u163	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in this crisis that we are currently living in, I assume I can identify three phases: a phase before COVID-19, a phase that we live in pandemics and a post-coronavirus phase. In the previous phase, we had the 2008 financial crisis, with the problem of sovereign debts, which, as we know, culminated in the rescue of several countries, including Portugal. It was the stage of austerity, which, even today, is an almost cursed word. I recall that Portugal, with enormous effort of families and businesses, left the financial assistance programme without resorting to any cautious programme. It was very difficult times, and at that time European solidarity had hesitated. Also the internal political solidarity in Portugal, among the major parties, did not always exist. It is good to remember that it was a government led by the PSD and the CDS-PP that took Portugal out of the tank. There have been mistakes, of course, but, yes, Portugal has come out with the head raised from this period. The second phase is that we are living, the stage of this disease caused by a virus with an unprecedented propagation capacity, a pandemic that has found its epicenter in Europe. It was the new coronavirus that ended up sowing this time of paralysis. We have never seen so many silent cities, we have never seen so many people confined to their family space, we have never seen a compulsory collection in Europe and, I would say, almost all over the world. This second phase is still marked by pain: 60 % of deaths occur in Europe. The virus exposed the fragility of a European Union that has many members, but with little trunk and less head, because solidarity is also a matter of mind. This solidarity was the first step in the agreement which was reached in the Eurogroup on 9 April, but we need more answers from the Council and the Eurogroup. The hundreds of billions of euros announced by the Eurogroup are only loans that often replicate measures already announced by the European Commission. The measures adopted add, indeed, flexibility, financial engineering, rehabilitation, but there is no fresh money. The SURE programme, for example, has already been announced twice — once by the European Commission, another by the Eurogroup — but the value of the loan is always the same. In response to the crisis, the institutions have, in fact, had an interesting behavior. The European Commission has been creative, the European Parliament has been ambitious, but let us say that the Council has behaved unfortunately disastrously. The Heads of State and Government tend to distrust each other, remain divided and make timid decisions and always at the last hour. The Council's decisions therefore necessarily pollute the Eurogroup. Mr Prime Minister, we know that this is a decisive European Council for the future of the European Union and above all for the euro area. More than ever, in response to this crisis the future of our Europe is being played and who will respond are not the European leaders, because they have already done a little of their share, they are the national leaders, they are the Heads of State and Government, when they sit, now in teleconference, around the European Council table, which must first think in the common European interest. And I repeat, therefore, that if the agreements fail, it will be the responsibility of the national leaders, who have not been able to do so. And I am not saying that this is the case with Mr. Prime Minister, fortunately. So, Prime Minister, my first question is this: will tomorrow at the European Council insist on the coronards or on another shared mechanism for the mutualization of the debt incurred because of the COVID-19, such as the recovery bonds now supported by the European Parliament? Or are we going to continue to borrow on loans? Although we already know that this is not your wish nor so little that of the PSD, because we all know what gives a carousel of debts, that, contrary to what a former Prime Minister socialist said, they always pay in some way, sooner or later and, most of the time, also with palm tongue. The Portuguese may not know about finance, but they certainly know, and very well, what it is to pay taxes. The second question I would like to ask Mr Prime Minister is: what is the Government's position on the federal eurobonds, conceived by the European Commission for the recovery from the strengthening of the Community budget, in which the mutual debt would be managed not by the States, but from Brussels? It's just that now suddenly bonds have appeared for all tastes and spells. Finally, Mr Prime Minister, I just wanted to ask you that tomorrow, when you are at the European Council, remember that we need a European Union with memory, which thinks of the third stage, of recovery and reconstruction, which will be a long stage and of several winters.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u164	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u165	I conclude now, Mr President. We need a Europe that knows how to emerge from the greatest crisis in our lives, a Europe that knows how to choose not to decline, but to rebirth. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u166	I now give the floor to Mr Pedro Filipe Soares of BE.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u167	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister and Mr. Members : We arrived at this situation after a meeting of the absolutely historic European Council, insofar as, before a pandemic, they decided nothing to decide and deliver the hot potato to the Eurogroup. This shows the irresponsibility of the European bodies at the moment. We arrived at the end of the Eurogroup meeting and saw the President of the Eurogroup, Mário Centeno, sing victory but with nothing to present. Moreover, the Portuguese Government, the Italian Government and the Spanish Government soon went on to say, in relation to what Mário Centeno said was the solution, "no, thank you, that was something we would not want to accept. Do not keep on seeking. ” And why? It was that there was no solution, it was just austerity headed to fall upon us tomorrow, because it said there was a line of support, but only for health expenses, and the rest of the money that this line of support could have been under measures that could bring austerity in the future. It was a hand full of debt to blow our hands forward. We were then told that what was really, even important, was the resolution fund. But once again the Eurogroup would say nothing about this, moving the ball back to the European Council. We have now reached the European Council to have a solution to the most important issue of the last decade on which Europe will decide. On this point, we note that the Prime Minister and the Government have come quite close to what the Left Block has been saying for years, both on how to respond to the problem of public debt and on the proposals which, in particular, have presented to deal with this crisis. But more than that, we note that there is beginning to be a number of countries approaching good positions, as is the case with Spain, by proposing a fund of EUR 1 5 billion of perpetual debt and, therefore, financing which will not end up breaking up again in the public debts of the most indebted countries, as is also the Portuguese case. We see, therefore, that there is an alignment of positions in the European Council that can see a solution. So the first question is very direct: are these positions to take seriously? How far is the Portuguese Government going to fight for them in the European Council? We have already heard, on the other hand, the Italian Prime Minister say that he is not available for minimums, because he knows that at the moment that means failing the challenge. The virus problem is not the fault of the people, it is not the fault of the countries of the South against the countries of the North. The pandemic is not responsible for the conduct of public policies of any of these governments or for the choices of any of these peoples. Therefore, to attribute this to an irresponsibility of the South, versus the virtuosity of the North, is unacceptable. That is what the Italian Government has said, as Mr Prime Minister has said. Accepting a minimum response is therefore to say that a narrative of the irresponsibility of the South is accepted on a virus that has nothing to do with this matter. Will the Prime Minister follow the idea that at least Europe is not possible to continue? What can we expect from the Portuguese Government in this European Council? On the other hand, Mr Prime Minister, in the previous debate, was clear about the deadlines for the economic recovery in Portugal, from the perspective of the Government. He told us that he hopes to deliver a reformive budget by the end of June and that he hopes, at that time, to have drawn up the economic recovery plan. But he also mentioned that this recovery plan will depend on the European response, which is perceived. However, the French Government, more specifically the French presidency, has already said that, perhaps, we should not expect much from this European Council, and that perhaps something similar to a recovery fund — whatever it is — only there for June. So I ask: are we going to have the Portuguese economy waiting for what is not enough? What is the government's response to this timing? These are the fundamental points in the question to be answered in this European Council: what money is there; whether it will fall on public debts; where it can be directed, whether for the economy, whether for public services, whether for social security, which is also being sacrificed in this context; and when this money is available. I believe that these are the questions we can ask you in this context. I also ask, and above all, how is it going to strike for answers to these questions in the European Council. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u168	You now have the floor for an intervention on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr Bruno Dias.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u169	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government and Members of the Commission. Members: In view of the framework set out for this meeting of the European Council, we want to bring to this debate three points and a central issue. First point: solidarity involves sharing, rationality implies justice. These values, in this context and in this process, should already mean a substantial strengthening of the budget of the European Union, ensuring its redistributive function and the objective of an effective economic and social cohesion; they should mean a budget built from national contributions, in accordance with the principle that countries with higher income and more benefit from the integration process can and should contribute proportionately more; and should mean a definition of priorities, not to benefit the same as ever, but to support the countries that have lost most with the euro, the single market and common policies. However, the recovery plan indicated does not initially guarantee this perspective. On the contrary, there is a risk of greater concentration of resources, favouring the main European powers and the large economic and financial groups. Moreover, the CFP has already pointed out that it was this same logic — of concentration of resources in the main powers — that it chaired the so-called Marshall Plan, which has been so often invoked as inspiration or example. The second point that we want to address is that there is a need to guarantee access to finance, with measures that hinder the escalation of the burden of debt, as serious as the absence of monetary sovereignty. The CFP therefore considers that steps should be taken to ensure the cancellation of the additional public debt fraction, issued to finance the expenditure resulting from the pandemic and its impacts—more precisely, the cancellation of public debt securities issued by the Member States to finance these expenditure, which have been or have been acquired by the ECB and their national central banks, under the sovereign bond purchase programme or the asset purchase programme due to the pandemic emergency. Third: the current situation makes the role of the ECB even more unacceptable, with its false independence, in which liquidity can be transferred to the bank without limits or conditions and is prevented from doing directly to the States. The proposal of the CFP is to create the possibility that, by way of derogation from Article 123 of the Treaty of Lisbon, the ECB may directly finance States, in particular through the direct purchase of national public debt securities. This prevents the current intermediation of financial markets, speculative attacks on sovereign debt—and there are again signs of a film we have already seen—and the profits of financial capital at the cost of reducing the revenues that States could obtain with a direct sale of debt securities to the ECB. In addition, the CFP reaffirms the need for a public debt renegotiation programme, within its time limits, interest and amounts, as well as the need for measures to curb financial speculation. Mr Prime Minister, Portugal cannot stand hostage to the contradictions, taxes, conditionalisms and blackmails of the European Union. As we said, the virus is enough. What this situation has confirmed is, as the CFP has stated, the urgency of the recovery of essential instruments of sovereignty, from the economic and monetary point of view, placing priority on development, social and territorial cohesion, on the protection of the rights and living conditions of workers and populations. That is the central issue. This is what we talk about when we talk about patriotic and left-wing politics. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u170	You now have the floor for an intervention by the CDS-PP, Mrs Cecilia Meireles.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u171	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Mr Prime Minister began by congratulating the meeting of the Eurogroup, but I must confess that, when I heard him speak at the time of the last Council meeting — and he was quite vocal about what had happened there, rising up against the Dutch minister — defending the Crown and saying that there was even a majority of countries that were already available to accept them, and then I realized what had been the result of the Eurogroup meeting, I was rather disappointed. I was expecting too much. Forgive me the expression, but I think it was a bit « lion's entrance, path exit» or, in the case of « Centeno exit ». And I can therefore only hope that at the next Council meeting things will run more smoothly in accordance with your speeches. It is that with all honesty, what came out of the Eurogroup meeting was a recycling of a line of employment support that had already been announced from the EIB ( European Investment Bank ) lines that had already been announced and the MEE ( European Stability Mechanism ) which had in fact been able to be used without conditionalism. But the truth is that we are talking about a mechanism that had been created in 2012 and the use of half the value planned for the mechanism. Mr. Prime Minister will tell me that it is true that it is used without conditions. Well, it is without written conditions, because it has the necessary conditions for it to be unappealable for countries to resort to it and, of course, goes to debt. Mr Prime Minister will certainly understand better than I do — and it is certainly a matter of concern — how we will find resources, means — money — to simplify — for economic recovery. In fact, I heard him say in the previous debate « attention, we cannot spend too much now, we have to have resources for what comes here». From that point of view, I fully agree with you. But resources, Mr Prime Minister, both in Portugal and in Europe — and I hope that this will be transmitted at the Council meeting — only by resorting to taxes — which I think is impossible, given the tax burden that exists in Portugal and Europe — or to debt, or to monetary policy, which will necessarily have to be common because we have a single currency. So what I would like to ask you is what you will propose in relation to the recovery fund and where this funding will come from. I realized that we were talking about debt incurred by the Commission and the European Union itself, and I was told that with State guarantees. I would like to understand whether or not this money goes to national debt—that is the fundamental issue—and I would also like to see whether other monetary policy mechanisms, which are being used by the United Kingdom or the United States, have been evaluated. Moreover, the ECB has already invested much more money than the lines announced by the Eurogroup, and we should not forget that. I would like to know what you will defend on this subject and also what you will defend on the use of this recovery fund. It is true that it is important to know where the money comes from, but it is also important to know how it will be applied and whether it will be handed over to States or whether it will be handed over to businesses or, alternatively, to people. That is a fundamental issue, even because Portuguese companies and European companies compete in the world. And they compete with companies from other countries, which have more money for support than Portugal has and which also have a much more agile monetary policy. That, therefore, was what I would like to understand.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u172	You now have the floor for an intervention by the PAN, Mr André Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u173	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister: The European Union has to decide whether it will be at the crossroads of the North/South divisions or whether it will definitely take on the role of great economic power, which has refused to be. Therefore, I would like to begin by saying to you, Prime Minister, that you have the support of the NAP for the defence of eurobonds, that you would ensure a risk sharing and would be a way to prevent the increase in debt associated with the pandemic from leading to an increase in national risk premiums or, on the limit, to a new sovereign debt crisis. Secondly, I would like to focus on the Netherlands, a country which defends rigour when it comes to denying solidarity to European partners, but which ignores this rigour when it acts within the framework of the European Union as a true tax haven that consumes resources that should remain in its countries of origin. Portugal loses EUR 236 million per year in taxes for the Netherlands. in a context in which each euro counts, the NAP has the understanding that it is crucial that this immoral tax revenue leak be blocked and that the ways of achieving it are discussed. Our question is whether the Government intends to raise the issue of tax havens or whether it will support other countries that will eventually do so. Finally, I would like to point out that your Government, Prime Minister, in conjunction with the banks and, in some cases, with the ECB, has created economic support lines to address the impacts of COVID-19. We read the disclosure document of these support lines, released on 16 April, and, after analyzing the activities financed by the government, we found that it provides for the financing of activities as cruel as slaughtering animals and as strange as the creation of camels — it is on page 39 of the document. This plan must have certainly had Mário Lino's finger! But it also provides for the financing of polluting activities such as uranium, oil, gas or coal extraction. Let us be clear, Prime Minister : this pandemic is a consequence of how we deal with the nature and an extractive and productive model that we have to change. If we struggle collectively today to flatten the pandemic curve, we must not forget that we also have to flatten the climate change curve if we want to avoid the point of non-return. Therefore, Mr. Prime Minister, your Government cannot, on one day, declare its eternal love for the European Ecological Pact and, on the other, support the financing of activities which are contradictory in relation to the objectives of that covenant. Mr Prime Minister, are you truly committed to the fulfilment of the European Ecological Pact? It is that, if it is, it cannot allow public money to be disbursed to fund activities that have put us in the climate crisis that we live in.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u174	Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor by the ENP for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u175	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister : This collective threat which was about us demanded a joint and cooperative response from the European Union, but what is being seen is the'save who can' in the 'Kingdom of the Vale'. In fact, the war on masks that has also been set up in Europe ends up faithfully translating the extent or dimension of the solidarity of the European Union, which, moreover, is only confirming what the Greens have been saying for years. European solidarity is a mere slogan which does not grant consultation of the prospectus. Just look at the conclusions of the Eurogroup: neither solidarity nor additional funds. The answers only bring greater indebtedness to States, favour the financial system and place States on the dependence of more conditionalisms, more pressures and more demands. In other words, Europe's solutions are still taking even more into account the weaker and more dependent economies of the debt dictatorship. What follows is now known, because we have seen this film: blackmails for structural reforms, pressure to deepen privatization processes and more loss of sovereignty. But, Prime Minister, the disgusting statements by the Dutch Minister should make us think, especially since we know that Portugal loses EUR 236 million of taxes every year, which are going to the Netherlands. Why? Because large companies, earning their profits in Portugal, divert their tax offices to the Netherlands, so as not to pay taxes here. I must say that I welcome the reply that Mr. Prime Minister gave me recently, ensuring that companies that have offshorers are not covered by support under this pandemic. In any case, Prime Minister, I think the weighting of the revival of the economy that Europe is doing should equal the end of this immorality that tax havens represent. We know that this war to end tax havens depends not only on the Portuguese Government, but we also know that the Portuguese Government can take this initiative with the organisations it is part of, from the very beginning of the European Union. I therefore ask the Government's willingness to take this initiative within the framework of the European Union. It is that living in a world where a few live in tax havens and the vast majority live in a real tax hell is an unqualified immorality that has to have an end, for the sake of social justice, for the sake of fiscal justice and for the sake of economies: of ours, of Europeans and of the worlds. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u176	You have the floor, Mr Ventura, for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u177	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister : It is clear that this European Union no longer serves us. I said that from time to time, when others said that this European Union was about to last and was strong. from a financial and economic point of view, the solution now proposed represents more or less 0, 2 % of European GDP (gross domestic product). Only the United States injected 10 % of GDP to save the economy. What a shame in Europe that not even at the most important moments in people's lives can save us! Only 0, 2 %, which will remain for history as a shameful value that European leaders were willing to give to their citizens at a time when they needed the European Union most! But it also does not help our Prime Minister at the European Council to say something and Mário Centeno seems to have another position before the Germans and the Finnishs, appearing to support their positions. We need to understand whether what the Prime Minister tells us is what applies to general state driving policy in the European Union or whether Mr Mário Centeno has free movement to say what he understands and to support Germans, Finnishs and those he wants most in Europe about what he wants. So it's important to know which side we're going to be on. As the Prime Minister will recognize, this does not favor us. I will finish by saying this to you, Prime Minister : one day, you took a chart to Europe. This graph showed that, although we were the largest net beneficiaries, there were countries that, in the background, per capita, per year and per inhabitant, were far more beneficiaries than we: Austria, Sweden, Denmark, the Dutch, now so much complain, Finland, which threatens to leave, as if someone wanted to know whether they were leaving or not. All of them. I'm asking you to take that graph again. Take it, please! If you want, I'll send it, but take it, so they can understand... [[PS laughter.]] ... that there are those countries, such as our own, that may suffer with debt, but that we will not be indebted to the new debt imposed by Europe.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u178	Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u179	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: There are those who like to look at Europe as a kind of bureaucratic construction that only serves as a pig-male, but we would like to see it as an area of freedom and political and economic responsibility for the nations and, above all, for the citizens who make up them. in this European Council, the two visions will somehow be at odds. Marshall plans and giant public return investments will be discussed, in which the role of citizens and private investment is secondary or non-existent. There will be proclamations by a more resilient Europe, whatever that is, but there will be no voice pointing to the labyrinthic and bureaucratic structure as a factor in this lack of resilience. It will be demanded that Europe have strategic autonomy — that is, they have now agreed on the geopolitical and economic dangers of relying on communist China — but no one will confess that for this strategic autonomy it would be necessary to free up the creative and entrepreneurial energy of Europeans. We will want all this to be financed by taxes from all Europeans, but the multiannual financial framework continues to be full of policies, starting with the CAP (common agricultural policy), which prevents the renewal of the economic fabric and does not all benefit fairly. There will be a lot of talk about solidarity, but they will be the most indebted ones, like us, who will see lower rating and increase the cost of debt faster. We are going to talk about agility and reconstruction capacity, but we seem to be doomed to centralism and economic planning, in which only sectors linked to green transition or digital transformation deserve attention. Mr Prime Minister, if you want to speak loudly to someone in this European Council, let those who continue to insist on making the European Union a gigantic bureaucratic structure instead of simplifying and reforming it so that it becomes what it can still be: an area of free cooperation between States which, above all, want to give their citizens the opportunities and freedom they need so much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u180	To close this debate, Mr Prime Minister has the floor again. It has 7 minutes.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u181	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I wanted to say that Mrs Isabel Meireles is right when she says that if someone has gone wrong is the Council. The European Central Bank reacted, and we can't accuse it of reacting neither late nor little. He reacted strongly enough to halt a first escalation of the interest rates that fed the fragmentation of the level of debt in the European Union as a whole. The European Commission has, from the outset, responded by flexible State aid rules, to the rules on the Stability and Growth Pact. It reacted, allowing flexibility in the management of the current multiannual financial framework. He reacted, proposing the creation of a new SURE. He reacted, saying there should be a recovery plan. It is also true that at the level of the European Council we have gone wrong because it has indeed been difficult to establish a consensus. They will say that today's consensus is wider than it was in the past. It is true, but since the decision is taken unanimously, it takes time or is limited. I think we should be fair with the Eurogroup. The Eurogroup responded positively, unlocking three situations that were blocked. It is true that the Commission had proposed the SURE, but the SURE was either approved or then had no legs to walk. It should be said that it is not yet going because some of the Member States continue to create difficulties so that it can effectively be achieved. The possibility of conditionality or non-conditionality for the use of the European Stability Mechanism line is absolutely essential. It is the difference between resorting to that line with troika and troika program, or being able to resort to that line without troika or troika program. Now, what has been guaranteed is that there is no troika program, no troika.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u182	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u183	This line exists, which any State may resort to, if necessary, to in response to a specific objective, expenditure directly or indirectly related to the prevention and combating of this pandemic. A third important step was to create conditions for the European Investment Bank’s line to be implemented and to finance companies directly. The Eurogroup said very clearly that this was the first step, the emergency step. Now, it is essential to take the essential step, which is the essence of a recovery programme. What is the situation in which we reach the European Council? Well, we have reached the European Council with a first consensus that did not exist before: the need for a recovery programme. Secondly, this recovery program must have a sufficient financial muscle, it must be up to the dimension of the challenge we face. at this time, all values, that is 1 billion, that is 1, 5 billion, that is 1, 6 billion, have this dimension. A third point where there is already an extended consensus has to do with the following question: how are we going to fund this fund? With more transfers from States? With higher taxes or debt issues? There has already been an agreement that it should be issued by the European Commission on the basis of Article 122. that of the Treaty. Therefore, the debate that was open about more crownbonds, more eurobonds or more bonds is overcome, because there is already a consensus: it must be made by debt issue. Here, does that mean it's all settled? No, because we need to solve an absolutely essential problem, which is the following: how do the money raised by the European Commission reach each of the Member States? This is the absolutely critical issue. Do they arrive through debt or arrive as non-refundable grant? If they arrive through debt, there is indeed no equality between all Member States, because those who are already indebted will have difficulty accessing that amount and, if they access, they will not cease to be penalized by the markets. If it is, as the multiannual financial framework is, by way of subsidy, then we will all be on equal footing and we must only debate which criterion: if it is as Spain proposes, in a combination of the number of people infected, the fall in GDP, the increase in unemployment, or according to another battery of criteria. But we'll all be on equal footing. That is why the central issue we have to discuss tomorrow in the Council is how it is transferred and how this recovery programme is financed. Should it just be for grants? If I were alone to decide, on behalf of the 28th, it would be only through grants.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u184	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u185	It happens that, despite your sympathy, I cannot decide for 27, and therefore I must also take into account the opinion of the other 26, which I would say is as legitimate as my own, because, in a union of equals, my opinion, unfortunately, is no better than the opinion of my colleagues, however foolish and wrong it is the opinion they are coming to express. It's theirs and I have to respect, as I have to demand that they respect mine. And the solution necessarily goes by finding an agreement. And what is the agreement that will be established? Well, it's hard to know right now. There is one thing we know: it is still very common today to define a number of countries involving Germany, the Netherlands, Finland, Sweden, Denmark, Austria. But I would say that putting Germany in this group is objectively unfair today, because the Netherlands... Sorry, the Netherlands no, Germany — the Netherlands is also distinguished for other reasons — because Germany has had a different position from those countries as a whole: a search and effort position to understand the views of others, to seek solutions and to establish bridges that meet with others. Does Germany think the same as Portugal? No, you don't think exactly the same. But, thinking different things, both Portugal and Germany, they strive to have a common understanding that unlocks the impasse. Yes, both Portugal and Germany have this position and I believe that this is absolutely crucial and important so that we can find a way to overcome this situation. I would therefore say that, most likely, tomorrow's discussion will focus on this point, which is fundamental. And this is particularly important to answer the question that Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has put on how and when we are going to discuss our restructuring plan or to answer the question put by Mrs Cecilia Meireles in order to know where we will invest in the recovery programme. I would like to say the following: we cannot wait indefinitely, but we need to know what weapons we count on. As I have said, we will need to know whether the European recovery programme provides us with a fisga or a bazouca. Depending on whether it is with the fist or with the bazouca, we will have a different fire power in our recovery program. Where should we invest? I have no doubt about that. We must invest in strengthening our productive capacity and consistent with what were the strategic priorities that we have defined and that Europe has defined: the transition to digital society, the face-up to climate change. So, Mr. André Ventura, we have to be consistent...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u186	Silva!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u187	André Silva, excuse me!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u188	I know you're praising him!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u189	No, it was a mistake!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u190	There's proximity!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u191	Both are André and both are Members. Therefore, Mr André Silva, you are right: we cannot be incoherent now by investing in what we do not consider priority investments, and must first keep those we consider priorities. What are the possible balances?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u192	Would you like to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u193	I shall now conclude, Mr President. I think that the possible balances are greatly facilitated by the fact that this reconstruction programme, or recovery programme, or by relaunching, as we want to call it, to be worked in the context of the Plurianual Financial Framework, because it effectively enables all transfers or, on the limit, if it has to be part of transfers and part of loans, we can release financial resources so that programmes such as those financed by cohesion policy or by the competitiveness and convergence instrument or the common agricultural policy are more financed by transfers and other mechanisms, such as some that have often been criticised by many parties, such as those in the area of defence, can be financed on the basis of loans. Perhaps we have been able to reconcile the different financial instruments available to the Union, the different Member States, with a view to those who have greater debt capacity the use of programmes that are most desirable to them on the basis of loans and those who have less debt capacity and more need for transfers to strengthen the financial capacity of the policies and programmes that are based on transfers.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u194	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. You really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u195	On what is the final conclusion at this time, I would say that tomorrow, surely, we will not have a final decision but not to appoint the European Commission to present and work on a European reconstruction programme with strength, determination and urgency. If you want my anticipation of the results of the Council, I would say that these will surely be: we welcome the results of the Eurogroup and appoint the European Commission to work urgently on a reconstruction plan. Thank you very much, Mr President, for your tolerance. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-22.u196	We therefore conclude this debate and today's agenda. I would, however, like to report on the next two plenary meetings. The first, which will take place next Saturday, 25 April, at 10 a.m., will include the solemn commemorative session of the XLVI anniversary of 25 April. The next plenary meeting will take place on 30 Thursday for 3 p.m. and whose agenda is not yet fully fixed, but it is relatively foreseeable that we will have to debate the country's near future on the continuation of the state of emergency or its cessation, as proposed by the President of the Republic. Eventually there will also be legislative initiatives by the Government to debate, but as soon as the agenda is set, it will be made known to the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen. Thus, our work today is completed. Good afternoon to all and until the next Saturday for those who are present at that meeting. The session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 59 minutes.]]
