ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. As and Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists. Let's start our work. [[It was 15 hours and 5 minutes.]] the first item on today's agenda is the general discussion of the Bill No 33 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Supplementary Budget by 2020. First, however, I will ask Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha to make some announcements to the Plenary.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u2	Good afternoon to all and to all. I begin by announcing an opinion of the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members concerning the waiver of the mandate of Mr. Mário José Gomes de Freitas Centeno ( Lisbon electoral circle ) and its replacement by Rita Borges Madeira, with effect from 15 June 2020, including. I also announced another opinion of the same Commission on the waiver of the mandate of Mr. Ricardo Emanuel Martins Mourinho Félix ( Setúbal electoral circle ), being replaced by Sofia Araújo from 15 June 2020, including. The Commission has delivered opinions on waivers and their substitutions meet the legal requirements.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u3	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote on those opinions. [[When put to the vote, they were adopted unanimously and the absence of the CH was recorded.]] Please continue, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I am aware that they have entered the Bureau and have been admitted, several legislative initiatives. First, I refer to Lein's proposals 33 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Supplementary Budget for 2020 and 34 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — prolongs the deadline for an exceptional scheme of measures applicable to local authorities under the COVID-19 pandemic and amends the rules on indebtedness of local authorities. It also entered, and was admitted, the Proposal for Resolution No 1 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves Decision No 3 / 2019 of the ACP-EU Committee of Ambassadors of 17 December 2019 adopting transitional measures pursuant to Article 95. , paragraph 4, of the ACP-EU Partnership Agreement, which falls to 2. the Commission. Bill Nos 447 / XIV / 1 also entered. a ( CDS-PP ) — Alter the regime of the special nursing career, as well as the nursing career regime in public business entities and health partnerships ( third amendment to Decree-Law No. 247 / 2009 of 22 September 2009 and third amendment to Decree-Law No. 248 / 2009 of 22 September ), 448 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Introduce an interpretative standard of Article 285. that of the Labour Code, making its application mandatory for the award by public tender of public services services, which falls to 10. the Commission, 449 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Sets a maximum number of students per class in the school year 2020 / 2021 in pre-school education and in basic and secondary education due to the COVID-19 pandemic, which falls to 8. the Commission, and 450 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Presentation of the report of the ICNF to the Assembly of the Republic, to monitor and strengthen compliance with the national goal of reducing the area of eucalyptus in the forest area, which falls to 7. the Commission. Finally, I refer to Resolution Projects Nos 511 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Sustainable and ecological use of residual forest biomass, which falls to 11. the Commission, 512 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government strengthen the epidemiological surveillance of COVID-19 at national borders, which falls to 1. the Commission, 513 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of measures to minimise the damage found in the fruit and agricultural sector in the face of extreme atmospheric conditions on 31 May in the Central and North of the country, 514 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Support for producers in the North and Centre regions affected by the seasons of 29 and 31 May, which fall to 7. the Commission, 515 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends support measures for international students, which goes down to 8. the Commission, 516 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — By valuing and dignity of nurses in Portugal, 517 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — makes recommendations for extraordinary measures to the Government to mitigate the effects of COVID-19 in higher education institutions, which goes down to 8. the Commission, 518 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends that the Government urgently support producers affected by extreme weather events and promote diversified agricultural production systems which fall to 7. the Commission, 519 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government do not slaughter 31 rats and promote co-existence of uses in the construction of the student residence in Porto, which falls to 11. the Commission, and 520 / XIV / 1. a ( PAR) — Movement of the President of the Republic to Badajoz. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u5	Thank you, Secretary Maria da Luz Rosinha. I should like to inform the plenary that Members have already registered more than enough to have voting quorum, so I would ask the parliamentary groups to proceed, as usual, so that they are no more than 120 Members in the Chamber. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, before giving the floor to the member of the Government who will present the proposed Supplementary Budget Act for 2020, I would like to draw the attention of all those present for the day which, by unanimous determination of the Assembly of the Republic, today we note: the National Day in Memory of the Victims of Forest Fires. It was to remind us that a tragedy such as that which occurred on June 17, 2017 can no longer be repeated that the Assembly of the Republic, a representative organ of sovereignty of all and all Portuguese, decided to dedicate this day to the memory of men, women, children who lost their lives in 2017, but also of all those who, throughout our history, succumbed to the scourge of forest fires in Portugal. On June 17, 2017 it will be in history as the day on which it broke out the most deadly forest fire ever in Portugal, a tragedy whose dimension is not parallel in our recent history and which Parliament, from the very first moment, sought to understand in all its contours, obtaining in an easy and credible way the possible clarifications. This was the case with the operation of independent technical committees. It is thus the operation of a possible committee of inquiry which, in time, will draw its conclusions. To honor those and those we saw leaving in 2017 is, above all, to ensure that we do not again see a tragedy with this dimension. It is therefore in memory of the victims of forest fires that I ask all of us to spend 1 minute silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] We will then start the first item on the agenda, the general discussion of the Bill No. 33 / XIV ( GOV ) — Approves the Supplementary Budget by 2020. To open the debate, you have the floor on behalf of the Government, Mr. Minister of State and Finance, John Leon.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Over the past five years, we have presented and discussed here five State budgets. They were very intense years of work, which allowed us to achieve the first budgetary surplus of democracy, in a context of convergence with the European Union, job creation and family income recovery. With this result Portugal reached the three key indicators of economic sustainability in 2019: firstly, a positive balance of the external balance; secondly, the growth of the economy and employment; and thirdly, the balance of the public accounts. It was the path followed in recent years that enabled Portugal to build solid financial bases so that it would be in better conditions to cope with this COVID-19 pandemic. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The Supplementary Budget we are discussing today has a distinct nature from previous amending budgets. Firstly, this is a different budget, because it aims to respond to the impact of a public health crisis that has also generated an unprecedented economic and social crisis in our lives. In addition, this budget is truly complementary because, starting from the State budget for 2020, it continues to take measures to improve income and investment in the social state which had already been agreed in this House as part of its approval, it adds a financial envelope necessary to finance the measures to combat the impact of COVID-19 and which are provided for in the Economic and Social Stabilisation Programme ( PEES ). But it also constitutes a supplementary budget other than other amending budgets in the context of crisis because it does not apply cuts in the social state or social benefits, nor imposes any increase in taxes. [[P.S.'s applause.]] On the contrary, it funds a set of additional measures provided for in the Economic and Social Stabilization Programme to give greater stability to the income of families and to the financing of companies affected by the crisis. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The public health crisis caused by COVID-19 substantially changed the early economic scenario by 2020. We believe in the Supplementary Budget that this year the economy is 6 %, 9 %, which is also in line with the European Commission itself. There is no such sharp fall in GDP (gross domestic product) in a single year. This scenario results in a decrease in the government's revenue of EUR 8700 million and an increase in expenditure by EUR 4300 million in response to what was planned in the original 2020 budget to address the economic and social consequences of the pandemic crisis. It is therefore expected that as a result of the pandemic the budget deficit will be 6, 3 % of GDP this year rather than the originally planned budget surplus. We really go through exceptional times. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The response to the pandemic meant that, in the first stage of the emergency, we had to focus on responding to the health problem, which resulted in a significant paralysis of economic activity during much of the second quarter. We are now going through a second phase of economic stabilization by the end of the year, the main measures of the Economic and Social Stabilization Programme, focusing policy efforts on the gradual recovery of our economy through support for businesses and jobs and support for families and the protection of their incomes. In order to maintain employment and jobs, the Government has decided to implement a broad package of policies, highlighting that of layoff, support for progressive recovery, measures to encourage job maintenance and the set of active employment policies. In order to promote investment and relaunch economic activity, 15 intensive business-related proximity investments were anticipated and designed an extraordinary tax credit for the investment that stimulates companies in anticipation of planned investments. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In order to support companies, in particular in strengthening access to finance and its liquidity, a moratorium on bank loans was launched, credit lines were strengthened to companies with State guarantees and export credit insurance. Extraordinary changes have also been made in payments on behalf of the companies to which tax and social contributions deferrals have been added. In order to strengthen social support and protect family income, the budget of the National Health Service was strengthened by more than 500 million euros,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... resulting in a total reinforcement of EUR 1350 million compared to 2019, i.e. an increase of around 13 %. Furthermore, extraordinary social benefits were created to respond to the crisis, such as support for informal workers and dependent workers, the extraordinary complement to stabilization and the allocation of extra family allowance benefits in September, in addition to the approval of various benefits. It is therefore a Programme that aims to promote stability in the current context of crisis and uncertainty: stability and protection of family income, stability of jobs and productive capacity of companies and stability in the financing of companies. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Economic and Social Stabilization Programme and its financing, envisaged in this Supplementary Budget, resulted in a process in which the Government, joining all political parties and the social partners, heard the concerns of civil society, in a spirit of commitment and sense of responsibility among all, which I take advantage of here to praise and which constitutes a distinctive mark of Portugal in the way it has reacted to this extreme situation that has affected us. I believe that the Programme incorporates an important part of the main concerns and suggestions that resulted from this effort of convergence among all in an exercise that we have made with total openness and good faith. Portuguese society has shown remarkable resilience in this period. All citizens, companies, associations, political parties, public administration, individually or collectively, have revealed a high sense of responsibility and outstanding national consensus. [[P.S.'s applause.]] A consensus which has, moreover, been internationally recognised, a consensus that, without eliminating the natural and healthy differences that characterize us, has allowed to combine different sensibilities in the search for solutions to the problems of the country and the Portuguese. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This package of economic and social stabilization measures is essential to maintain businesses, jobs and social cohesion. Only in this way will we be able, once again with solid foundations, and at a third stage, to regain our economy. We therefore expect to increase GDP by 4 to 3 % by 2021. [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... and that as a result of this recovery there is also a significant reduction in the budget deficit by 2021, again falling below 3 %, as also provided for by the European Commission. This crisis, unlike the previous one, did not result from a structural problem or the accumulation of indebtedness of countries and sectors, which typically takes more and more time to correct and resolve; this crisis was, yes, suddenly created by the pandemic. It is a very intense crisis with very profound economic and social consequences for which we all need to be aware, because that is the only way we will be able to win. But I also wanted to leave here a message of confidence and hope for all Portuguese. I am convinced, precisely because this crisis has been just the sudden advent of the pandemic, that, when it is overcome and if we pursue appropriate recovery policies at national and European level, as it is happening, we will, more quickly than in the previous crisis, be able to lead the country back to a path of economic growth and employment, confidence and sustainability. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is a shared path and it is a path that we must walk with a sense of responsibility, on behalf of the Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u7	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's get into the debate. Nine Members have applied for clarification and the Bureau has been informed that the Minister will respond in two blocks of five and four requests for clarification. First of all, Mr Duarte Pacheco has the floor to request clarification from the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister for Finance, I will concentrate on three points. First of all, of course, I would like to congratulate you on your courage to take up these functions at a time when the country is experiencing a severe storm. Your forecasts indicate, not to mention any more negative ones, that we are going to experience the greatest recession in our democracy, that the public deficit will be colossal, that the public debt will beat the record. In view of this, you and we are all here looking for solutions to reduce the impact of this crisis, unlike your predecessor, who deserted,... [[Protests by PS MP Ascenso Simões.]] ... seeking a personal interest to the detriment of national interest. [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]] The second point, Minister, has to do with the proposal presented here, which is the second amendment to the State budget for 2020. This amendment — we all understand it — includes measures aimed at reducing the economic and social impact of the current crisis, measures which are generally necessary, go in the right direction and follow many of the measures that the PSD has also presented in due course. Will that be enough? We don't know! Will they arrive in time and time to whom they need, in view of the bureaucratic role that accompanies them? We'll see! And we will always have to consider whether they will come out of role and become a reality, such is the past that this government has already presented. But there is something that is already recorded: it is that this bill has, however, an opacity, that any neutral reader identifies, in order to be able to understand the financial impact on the public accounts of each measure in particular. In fact, UTAO itself (Technical Unit and Budgetary Support) recognizes it and any citizen who can read it carefully also recognizes it. That, Mr Minister, leads me to ask you a question which has to do with the forecasts that have come to the public and which, still today, forecasts have been made by the Banco de Portugal, unfortunately for all of us, indicate that the situation can be more serious. If that happens, Mr Minister, I have to ask you the following: do you maintain the targets of the deficit by strengthening captivations, in which you are an expert, as we all know, or will you present a budget proposal with a view to the third amending budget for the State budget for 2020? Finally, Mr Minister, I have to tell you about the « elephant » in the middle of the room, that is to say the New Bank. Mr. Minister, Mr. President of the Republic said that he was stunned by the request for financial injection made by the New Bank. In fact, I think I can say that it is not only Mr President of the Republic, but also the Portuguese who are stunned by this new request. Is Mr. Minister of Finance too? Is the government also amazed at this new request? This is a concrete question for which I hope to answer. The second question is: when is it concluded and when will Parliament be given the audit, promised by the Prime Minister — and which has not yet arrived — on the management of the New Bank over the past few years? [[PSD applause.]] Finally, what has been more hidden in the glorious alienation that you have made from the New Bank to Lone Star that may come to surprise not only the Portuguese but the President of the Republic himself?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u9	What a shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u10	Can the Minister also explain to us, even if this is the only way forward, so that the President of the Republic will not be surprised again and amazed at something coming to the public? I think we all won with that answer. Mr Minister, I conclude by saying that I hope for concrete answers to the questions I have raised, because the parliamentary debate, with institutional and personal respect, is possible, which has not always happened to your predecessor, but we hope it will be with you. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u11	You now have the floor to ask for clarification, Mrs Ana Catarina Mendonça Mendes.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Minister for Finance, I welcome you for your new position with the confidence that this parliamentary group will have that Mr Minister will continue the line of guidance and strategy that we have defined five years ago, with positive results that allow us to be responding to this crisis today with the determination and strength that we are doing so. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But I would also like to say, in particular to Mr Duarte Pacheco, that there is something that should be satisfied with being this government, this Minister of Finance to manage this crisis because, contrary to the right, we are not presenting today eight amending budgets for cutting incomes, for cutting pensions, for raising taxes! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] On the contrary, sir! That is why this bench means the following: it is in the most difficult times, when it is necessary to respond to an unprecedented crisis, that we can be head-on, without cutting incomes, without promoting emigration or unemployment, but by betting on the economy, employment and protection of people. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] Mr Duarte Pacheco, in fact the white elephant...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u13	White? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u14	...it exists in the room. But it exists since a resolution of the BES ( Banco Espírito Santo ), made by you irresponsiblely and who left this government on inheritance. And it was this government that solved the problem!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u15	Resolved? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u16	Yesterday, you had the opportunity to hear Mr Finance Minister say that it might be good for Mr New Bank President to know how to manage the Bank better rather than apologize with a pandemic to ask for a new injection, which we all reject. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me now to say the following: firstly, we are not discussing a corrective budget to correct bad forecasts, to correct and bring to the Portuguese more impoverishment; we are discussing a supplementary budget that the dramatic moment the country lives demands. And this is the Supplementary Budget that allows to respond to a revival, to a stabilization at this stage of the economy,... [[Protests from PSD MP Lina Lopes.]] ...by betting on companies, which allows you to protect employment and protect everyone's income. But there's one thing that you and the honourable Member have to do. Members of the PSD cannot forget: this is a time that calls for the responsibility of all parties to the country and for the exceptional moment in which they live. [[Protests from PSD MP Lina Lopes.]] There is also a note that I would like to stress: this is an Supplementary Budget which continues to reject, as we have rejected the austerity measures in the last five years. [[Protests from PSD MP Lina Lopes.]] ...and, therefore, Mr Minister of State and Finance, you can above all calm the benches on the right and say that we have made a path over these five years, with the support of the left parliament, to reject austerity and to continue to wager in the economy, employment and income of Portuguese people, because that is what will allow us to relaunch the economy from the end of this year. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u17	You now have the floor, to ask for clarifications, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u18	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the Left Block stands out very well — I think we are all doing so — a reformative budget of a regular budget, since the time to discuss the strategic substantive budget options will come from here to months with the State budget for 2021. This is the time to debate and approve financial measures and means of economic relief and support for the population. This is also a good time to ensure that there will be no extraordinary support for the New Bank and that no injection into the New Bank will be made without knowing the audit to your accounts. This requires responsibility for public money and how we distribute it at this stage. Overall, it must be said to begin by saying that the magnitude of this plan which has now been presented falls far short of what has been presented in other countries: it is insufficient if we compare Spain, Italy, with Germany, which had much more comprehensive plans than what is now presented. But even within the objectives that are proposed, this Budget is insufficient in some areas and has some omissions in relation to the Stabilisation Programme, which has measures that do not reflect the Budget. The proposals presented by the Left Block, some of which have already been announced today, are very precise and aim to solve very specific problems in social support, to ensure that no one remains without support, and in public services, which were on the front line of the response. We therefore intend to extend the unemployment allowance to all people who have not had any support in the context of crisis. This measure was generally adopted here and there is no reason not to be introduced into the Supplementary Budget. We want to extend the stabilization supplement not only to those who have lost their salary through the layoff, but to those who have not reached the layoff because it was precarious before this measure and was dismissed, and therefore entitled to the stabilization supplement, and we want to put an end to the pay cuts imposed by the layoff. In health, we want to implement the contracts of professionals and value and recognize their efforts, through the risk allowance. It cannot only be rhetorical recognition of the efforts of health professionals. We also want to eliminate, in advance, the moderate rates for complementary means of diagnosis, because this can help all those who have moved away from the SNS (National Health Service) to return to the health services they need. In public school, we want to strengthen the teaching body and reduce the size of schools. Schools need strengthening and attention, also to compensate for the additional effort they have had at this stage. Finally, we believe that this collective effort requires enormous rigour in the way we allocate public funds and therefore it is necessary to prohibit entities that have offshore links on the Banco de Portugal list from being able to access any support and we also want to add 1 percentage point in the spill, i.e. in profits above 1 million euros. It is not to prevent any company from having profits, it is only to ask companies to keep their profits above EUR 1, EUR 5 million that can contribute with a little more to strengthen social support and strengthen public services in the first line. I therefore leave a simple question to the Minister: does the Government come to this debate with the aim of improving the budget and democratically accepting the result of the budgetary debate in the Assembly of the Republic or seeking only a stamp for a process that is already completed, even if it is insufficient? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u19	Mr Duarte Alves of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u20	Mr President, Minister of State and Finance, the Supplementary Budget we are discussing here is marked by a great insufficiency in the face of the size of the problems facing the country, which are structural problems that have worsened with the epidemic crisis of the COVID-19. We can say that, on the one hand, the measures that the Government had in the Stabilisation Programme resulting from the intervention of the CFP are not here, such as the support of €438 to self-employed workers who have lost their income, the measures under family allowances and several other measures in social benefits that are not covered by the joint which we are going to vote on. On the other hand, what is in fact in the bill focuses on measures that will only favour large businesses, which have already been the major beneficiaries of layoff and other measures and leaves aside workers and micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. The Government recognises, with the measures it submits, that it has failed to support the overwhelming majority of the business fabric, consisting of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. The support did not reach small businesses, which were on the brink of bankruptcy, and now the government is proposing a tax benefit policy for the acquisition of these companies, encouraging, with public resources, the concentration of capital. The disappearance of this business fabric, the reconfiguration of the national economy in this direction of its concentration, corresponds to the guidelines of the European Union, which the Government has enthusiastically joined, making available here the public support that has been lacking to save these companies. Tax credit for investment will also represent a tax bond for large economic groups without the government distinguishing large companies from small businesses, which sectors should be supported and the types of investment to be supported. It is all this tax benefit, which is not accompanied by a real industrial policy and a level of public investment that revives the national economy and, in particular, investment in the productive sectors. On the extension of the deadline for the postponement of tax damages yesterday at the hearing that took place, neither the Minister nor the Secretary of State for Tax Affairs were able to answer clearly the following question: how much will this measure benefit the bank? The bank, which has complained of an additional waste of only EUR 33 million. But how many million will look for this measure in taxes that stop paying? It will certainly be much more, but I look forward to your answer. Speaking in bank, please clarify to us once and for all whether the Government undertakes not to continue to deliver millions of euros to the New Bank, using the backbones of the privatisation process left by its predecessor, which allow to go beyond EUR 3.9 billion. It is not if the request is extemporaneous, it is not if the request is shocking, it is if it guarantees to the Portuguese that it will no longer make any transfer to the New Bank. Finally, Mr Minister, on TAP ( Portuguese Air Transport ), we find it unacceptable that the EUR 1200 million mobilised for its recapitalisation are not accompanied by the transformation of that capital entry in order to ensure its public control and the nationalisation of the company. It is necessary to recapitalize the TAP, yes, but not to be an appendix to any foreign airline. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u21	To conclude this first block of requests for clarification, Mrs Cecilia Meireles of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u22	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister of State and Finance, first of all, I would like to congratulate you and say to you that I heard from the rostrum, and I listened to Mrs Ana Catarina Mendes, inflamedly agreeing, that this is a budget that does not apply cuts. I begin by telling you that it is worth remembering here all those who, unfortunately, have lost their jobs during the pandemic; all those who, during the pandemic, and who, in many cases, still cannot open their shops today, cannot open their businesses and do not have how to earn their lives; and those 850,000 workers who were in layoff, for whom there were cuts, because they received only two thirds of their wages. Mr Minister and Mrs Ana Catarina Mendes may say that the State has no other resources than taxes and that the pandemic is difficult. But at least these people deserve the truth of recognizing that they have been required to sacrifice and heavy sacrifices. [[Protests by PS MP Ascenso Simões.]] Therefore, it is particularly disrespectful to say, in relation to these people, that there were no cuts and pretend that none of this happened. And this is also difficult to explain why it is true that the State does not have other resources than those of the present or future taxes, but that applies to people who experience difficulties in the pandemic, both companies such as TAP and the New Bank. I believe that people will realize that public resources are scarce, but they probably do not perceive the duality of criteria and that this is only spoken in some cases. And I tell you, with all honesty, that I don't understand this duality either. Secondly, and at the same time as I saw you welcome the spirit of commitment here in Parliament, which is true, I must also tell you that — and I take advantage of the presence of the Prime Minister — it is with great surprise that I have seen you in recent days somewhat scruffed for having been opposed and trying to create an environment of crispacy and institutional crisis between Parliament and the Government. Mr Prime Minister, in Portugal, the crisis we have is enough, we do not need an institutional crisis. I have taken note of an opinion, indeed of the communication—even though the Prime Minister has said that he has been sent to the parties, to the CDS he has not arrived—and I would like to tell him that you can even put all the lawyers of the Government and the country to discuss whether or not the Members have the power to present amendments, but one thing I say to you, Prime Minister : we can discuss whether or not they have power, but I, as a Member, have no doubt that we have a duty to represent who has elected us. So with responsibility and looking at the crisis, and sticking to the pandemic, yes, we have a duty to put forward proposals, and so on. They are responsible proposals, which, in fact, will not affect the total revenue of the State, but which, for example, means that, in a very difficult situation like the one we live, the first thing that can be asked, rather than discussing support, is that the State does not withdraw advances on account of a tax that will not be due, as is the case of the IRS (tax on income of natural persons), on withholding from the source and then returning in 2021. Therefore, I think it was of the most elementary good sense that the retention tables at the source were reviewed so that in 2021 there were no reimbursements and people could keep the money. And it's not state support, but state support does not take the money away from them. Secondly, on a question of fairness, what does it mean for the State, which is often late to pay and which has debts with people and companies, to require them to pay taxes when they are owed money? The correctness of accounts and a current account between State and taxpayers is a measure of equity at any time, and at this time it is a measure of necessity. None of them affect the state's revenue, but it affects the income of families, and the CDS will not fail to propose. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u23	To reply, Mr. Minister of State and Finance John Leon has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u24	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for the questions you have put to me. I begin by answering the question put by Mr Duarte Pacheco's PSD Member on the deficit target. Mr President, our commitment is to the Economic Stabilization Programme, which we need at this stage. We will not play a rigid role in the goals of the deficit, we will naturally let the automatic stabilizers operate. There will still be great uncertainty in this context that we all recognize. Throughout this period we will have the greatest concern about the stability of companies and the protection of family income. As to whether I am amazed at Mr New Bank's statements, yes, I am. We believe that these statements were extemporaneous, made out of time. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As we said yesterday, Mr President of the New Bank must, yes, concentrate on managing his bank as efficiently as possible, on valuing assets in order to achieve the best possible results during this year. No new cash injections are planned in this Supplementary Budget. The communiqué that came out of Banco de Portugal in the meantime confirms everything we mentioned yesterday in the Committee on Budgets and Finance. [[P.S.'s applause.]] However, on the bank and the banks, we realized yesterday, in this parliamentary committee, that, concerning this Supplementary Budget, the main and only concern of the Members. PSD members were with the additional contribution of the banks. The gentlemen. Members were against the additional contribution of the banks to finance the sustainability of social security. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The Portuguese will have difficulty understanding this PSD position against the additional contribution of banks. And it was important to realize if they kept that position. Mrs Mariana Mortágua, as I said, no new cash injection is planned in the New Bank. The result of the audit is scheduled for July and there will be no new injection as a result of this audit. In reply to the question put to me by Mr Duarte Pacheco on delays in financing companies by credit lines, we were also amazed yesterday at the fact that the main concern of the Members was the main concern. PSD Members, after all, are no longer with the speed of these loans but with the quota risks associated with these credit lines. [[Protests by PSD Member Afonso Oliveira.]] The PSD needs to clarify to the country and to the companies whether it is concerned about the speed of these loans or about the quota risks associated with them. And you should also clarify whether you have any doubts about these loans. It is that we have no doubt and we believe that they must be done quickly to ensure the sustainability of companies and that, following this quickly, we must seek to be careful to ensure that quota risks are reduced. With regard to the question raised by Mrs Ana Catarina Mendonça Mendes, of the PS, on the strategic line, I want to say that in this framework we have maintained a line of continuity with what has happened in the last five years, a line of continuity adapted to the new scenario. And this line of continuity has a fundamental concern with stability: stability in support of family incomes and the protection of their incomes, stability in job maintenance and productive capacity of companies and stability in their outlook. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We do not propose any increase in taxes, we do not have any increase in taxes. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I understand that Mrs Cecilia Meireles is a stranger and there is no increase in taxes. It is so used to, in these contexts, propose higher taxes which you find strange there is no. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u25	And a cut of 600 million euros in social security! Open... [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Cecilia Meireles.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u26	On the questions raised by Mrs Mariana Mortágua on social benefits, she wanted to note that in the Economic and Social Stabilization Programme the Government was concerned to listen to all political parties and social partners and to seek, within a spirit of commitment, to incorporate these concerns into the Programme. I also note that, in this context, the benefits of unemployment benefit have been extended, and the social unemployment benefit extended until the end of the year has already been approved the reduction of guarantee periods so that people more easily have access to unemployment benefit, a set of measures has already been taken with the concern to protect the income of workers, not only of workers on behalf of others but also of self-employed and informal workers. Two new extraordinary measures are planned at this level, allowing one for independent workers and informal workers to support up to 1 IAS (indicating social support) if they wish to adhere to this measure. With regard to corporate taxes, we believe that, in this framework of uncertainty, we should not add any more uncertainty and instability to its operation. Companies have also been severely affected by this crisis and it is important that the State ensure a framework of stability and confidence in this context. Finally, I refer to two questions that have been raised about the TAP. Mr Duarte Alves of the CFP, we agree that the State should intervene with rigour and concern in the matter of the TAP. As you know, we are also subject to a legal framework within this intervention. at present, what is planned is emergency aid, which will last for six months. This emergency aid is currently foreseen in a basic scenario of EUR 946 million which are assumed in this Supplementary Budget as an estimate of expenditure we will have in this context. The value may, in an extreme case, in view of the uncertainty created by the pandemic, reach up to EUR 1200 million. And once this emergency aid is completed, a restructuring programme is followed, in which TAP will try to find new capital for this restructuring programme. in this framework of the restructuring programme, the conversion of part of the state loan to capital may also be in equation and in this case the State would also be a shareholder of the TAP. With regard to investment tax credit, which is an incentive measure for companies not to add investments but instead seek to anticipate investments, I highlight two important aspects here. On the one hand, it is a measure which has an obligation to maintain jobs, i.e. companies, to access this investment tax credit, must ensure that jobs are maintained.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u27	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u28	On the other hand, since there is a limit value for tax credit, this measure, in proportional terms, benefits small and medium-sized enterprises more than large companies. Finally, on the question raised by Mrs Cecilia Meireles of the CDS, on the amendments to this Supplementary Budget in particular, I would just like to say that there is a judgment of 1986 of the Constitutional Court,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u29	Leave it! I know that part!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u30	... which follows this perspective and which says that Article 167 ( 2 ). the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic applies to amendments, in the specialty, of the Supplementary Budget. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u31	Mr Minister, a second group of requests for clarification follows. To that end, Mr André Silva of the NAP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u32	Mr President, Minister, when we thought we had seen everything about the New Bank, we discovered in recent days that the sale contract of this bank is so bad that it foresees the possibility of an injection of money due to the health crisis, that injection that Antonio Ramalho has already hurried to say he will ask. In view of this, it is necessary to clarify whether the Government is going to give in to this blackmail of the New Bank and whether it is also going to renegotiate the New Bank's sales contract so that no more money will be injected in this bank during the health crisis. in this Supplementary Budget, the Government allocates zero euros to combat climate change and EUR 1200 million to TAP, the third largest national pollutant. Now, in the post-pandamy period, we must follow an economic recovery based on a climate-neutral model. But that is not the way to this budget, as the government is supporting clean businesses without environmental compensation. As has happened in support of KLM or Air France, we hope that any support granted to TAP will be accompanied by environmental performance counterparties such as the demand for reduction of emissions, the elimination of night flights or the end of the fuel tax exemption. Therefore, we would like to know whether the government is available to integrate these types of counterparties into the TAP. A third aspect which I wanted to address, and which concerns the Budget, is the following: the Government foresees a loss of revenue in the order of EUR 472 million on oil products ( ISP ), but paradoxically it keeps the tax exemptions in force in some polluting sectors, which will cost the State more than EUR 500 million only this year. We know that they are proud that they won't be taxed, so we still don't charge carbon taxes, which we don't follow. We live at a time when, more than ever, we have to compensate for loss of revenue. Does it not seem to you that this is the right time to put an end to these perverse subsidies, to these exemptions? Finally, I would like to ask you about the regulation of a NAP proposal, enshrined in the State budget for 2020 : the extension of the social energy tariff to all unemployed people, something that will help many families, especially in the context in which we live. Can you tell us when this regulation comes out, that it is already so late for the needs of people and the country? [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u33	You now have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr José Luís Ferreira, of the ENP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u34	Mr President, Minister for Finance, this Supplementary Budget represents the Government's response to the crisis caused by COVID-19 and seeks to materialize the Economic and Social Stabilization Programme also presented by the Government. In anticipation, I would like to say that the Greens recognise that some of the concerns we have brought to the government have ended, although partly, by having reflected in this Supplementary Budget. However, we must also recognise that the answers that this budget carries are, in our view, far from what is necessary. And they are far from necessary not only from the point of view of support for families and support for micro and small businesses, but also in terms of public investment and measures to curb the growing wave of unemployment which continues to run to very worrying levels. And now the Minister will say to me: 'Yes, but money does not give for everything'. But Mr Minister, it could give more if the government, for example during this period, had prevented banks from collecting spreads in access to the lines of credit that the Government has established. There could be more if, for example, the Government could see access to support for companies which have their tax office in tax havens, such as the Greens have defended since the beginning of this process and as some countries have already done, as is the case for six countries in Europe. These are funds that could be channelled to strengthen social support or to strengthen public investment, which, in fact, is far from desirable for the recovery of the economy. These are funds that could further strengthen the National Health Service, which leads to this Budget, remember, half of the funds planned for aid to TAP. In any case, we note that some Green concerns have been expressed in this budget. We are talking about the need to extend over time measures to support families and micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. We are talking about the new supplement for stabilisation of workers' incomes, such as the complement for those who have been in layoff, or the specific social support for show arts professionals, or the payment of the extraordinary family allowance. We are talking about the "suspension" of payment on behalf of the IRC (tax on the income of the public) for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, even if this suspension has to have quotes, since it is not exactly the suspension that the Greens propose, it is more a late payment without penalties. And we also talk about the extension of the moratorium to bank credit or the launch of new lines of financing with bank guarantee, which can be decisive for the survival of many small and medium-sized enterprises. There were, however, other concerns of the Greens, which could represent important contributions in this context. And we are not just talking about the new rules of the simplified layoff regime, which does not completely remove the injustice it represents for thousands of workers, even if it alleviates this injustice. We are also talking, for example, about the creation of a treasury fund so that small businesses can cope with fixed expenditure they have incurred during the period when they have not recorded any revenue. I am referring to the rents of the facilities, energy, wages and others, which the government had said were on the radar of their concerns. But, Mr Finance Minister, my request for clarification concerns another Green concern, which has been announced by the Government and which has to do with a matter which has recently moved to the finance portfolio. I mean the removal of asbestos in school buildings. And why? It is that the supplementary budget document not only does not allow us to understand what the money is intended for this purpose, as we still have no guarantees that it will continue, because the government, by putting this money on an extended cake to other investments, has left its implementation dependent on the priorities that the authorities have set in the range of these investments. It was important, Mr Minister, to tell us whether you are in a position to ensure that the programme of removal of asbestos in school buildings is actually going to advance, taking advantage of the fact that schools are closed, as the government has announced. To finish, and about the white elephant,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u35	It's not white, it's in the room!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u36	It is not white, but about the elephant in the room, I wanted to ask, Minister, who brought the elephant in after all. I just don't ask the question because we all know the answer: it was the PSD and the CDS that brought the elephant into the room,... [[Congrats from PS Members.]] [[CDS-PP and CH rice.]] ... because whoever created the New Bank problem was the PSD/CDS government, moreover, with solemn guarantees that there would be no cost to taxpayers. That is why I am not asking the question but registering the Minister's intention to ensure — I will not guarantee, but the intention — that there will be no more injections into the New Bank without at least an audit. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u37	Now, yes, it is Mr. André Ventura's turn to ask questions to Mr. Minister for Finance.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u38	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Ministers, very late. Mr. Minister, first of all, I would like you to explain to us how the tax credit of the Gaspar Victor Budget, which was pure propaganda, is now the Government's great measure to save the economy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u39	He misses Gaspar!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u40	Since we have heard the words of the President of the New Bank and now we have heard the President of Montepio say that there was a tsunami in the institution and he will need help, I would like you to assure this Parliament that there will be no more than one cent this year for the New Bank and Montepio, paid by taxpayers' taxes. I would also like you to tell us whether or not you will have the courage, which the PS said it would have, to give risk allowance to those who were in the front line against this fight — teachers, health professionals and police. Finally, Mrs Ana Catarina Mendes, I don't know if there is an elephant, much less a white elephant, in this room. But, if there is,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u41	Oh, it exists and it's white!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u42	...I know he has a name: he is minister of this government, called Pedro Nuno Santos, and he is about the TAP. And it was important to know whether such a restructuring plan, such capital injection, will lead to redundancies in the TAP and structural reduction...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u43	Thank you very much, Mr. You've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u44	...of that company. We know that they want to kill the company and it was important to know if they also want to fire their employees.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u45	After all, at this stage there were not four or five, but only three requests for clarification. You have the floor to answer, Mr. Minister of Finance John Leon. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Cecilia Meireles.]] Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo cancelled his registration to request clarification, as I was informed, to replace him with an intervention. The Member of the CDS-PP is not registered to ask for clarification now, but to intervene at a new stage of the debate. So I have to trust the work that the Bureau does and that is what I intend to continue to do. The CDS-PP has already spoken in this question session to the Government and therefore there is no reason to intervene twice, unlike the other parties. The organization of work is this. I don't think there's any problem. There are Mrs. Members who first say that they do not sign up and then sign up and there are others who do precisely the opposite.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u46	Oh, I get it!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u47	I know you got it, but I want everyone to understand, not just the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, but also those who see us live. To respond to the requests for clarification, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I would like to speak on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u48	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr André Silva, in the contract between the Resolution Fund and the New Bank there is no provision beyond EUR 3, EUR 9 billion.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u49	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u50	In fact, this was confirmed by the statement that Banco de Portugal issued yesterday. I would also like to make it clear that no more money is planned for the New Bank in this Supplementary Budget, with no more injections to the New Bank this year in the Supplementary Budget. [[P.S.'s applause.]] On the environmental and energy issues which Mr has raised, on which we have shared some measures throughout the State budgets, he would like to mention the following : either under the State budget or under the Stability Programme, many measures are planned, in different contexts, related to this environmental and energy concern. I am sure that in a more strategic direction within the framework of a State budget, as Mrs Mariana Mortágua has just mentioned, we can, together, continue to draw our way towards our strategic concerns, reaching commitments for the adoption of measures in this area. Now, this is a specific budget, to respond to a specific problem caused by the pandemic, and it is a budget that gives the necessary financial envelope to frame the response measures to the pandemic. As the question of the social energy tariff is not the subject of this Supplementary Budget, but a matter within the framework of the State budget, I think that this question can then be fully clarified by the Minister who protects this area. I would also like to highlight the question of asbestos, which is a very important issue. In fact, in the Economic and Social Stabilization Programme, in the framework of the package of measures to stabilize economic activity, additional funds, financed by European funds, will be provided to enable a very significant intervention in the removal of asbestos in schools. Finally, Mr Ventura, from the Czech Republic, as I have already mentioned, no additional funds are planned to be injected into the New Bank this year — no more money will be injected this year. With regard to Montepio, there is also nothing planned. We are following the situation carefully and I have nothing more to add. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u51	in this new round, the Bureau records 14 more entries for requests for clarification, to which Mr Minister will answer in two sets of seven. For the first request for clarification, Mr Jorge Costa, of the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u52	Mr. President, Mr. Minister for Finance, Mr. Government members, the State budget for 2020 included a legislative authorisation to the Government for the creation of electricity consumption scales, applying reduced value electricity supplies to reduced and intermediate VAT rates ( value added tax ). The proposal presented by the Left Block today strictly follows this model of the Government and the one sent to Brussels. It has moderate but sensitive impacts, a relief between €4 and €5 on the average monthly bill of electricity consumers. We propose the creation of two steps of contracted power: below 6, 9 kVA, serving one in six consumers, and the step of 6, 9 kVA, which includes a quarter of the consumers. The proposal is that 150 kWh monthly be established as reduced consumption, which should be taxed at lower rates of VAT. The parliamentary leader of the Socialist Party today reacted with praise to this proposal of the Left Block, as if the Assembly, with the legislative authorization it has given, had lost to the Government the powers it has, in tax matters, and continue to be. We do not lose any powers in this matter, Madam Member!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u53	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u54	In fact, when Mr Prime Minister presented his proposal for a State Budget, he stressed here in Parliament that it would be to apply this year. If it is planned, if it is provided in the 2020 budget and only pending European authorisation, why would Parliament now stand still? Why would Parliament not now give shape and approval to that particular measure? Oh, my God! We have the time: the Brussels agreement is already known, we have the majority, because in this House there is no party that is against the reduction of the VAT rate in electricity and we have urgent reasons - and these, yes, are what justifies the presentation of this proposal - which is the need for response instruments to the social emergency, and this, the reduction of the VAT rate, especially for these low consumption, is such an instrument. Mr Minister for Finance, a further delay of the government will already be a retreat, adding to the suspicion of the government's preparation of an insufficient VAT reduction and for few consumers. So we finally implement the reduction in electricity VAT. Now she needs more. If it's not now, when will we? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u55	It is the turn of the PSD Parliamentary Group, through Mr Ricardo Baptista Leite. You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u56	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Minister of Finance, with the crisis of COVID-19 were cancelled and 1, 4 million medical consultations were postponed, 41 000 surgeries, including 2500 cancer surgeries, of cancer patients were cancelled. This Supplementary State Budget provides for EUR 34 million for the replacement of the care activity, which already had waiting lists, in many cases, over one year. It is a drop in an ocean of needs and it is not really understood the resistance to use the whole health system, including the private and social sector. It is not acceptable to tell a cancer patient that he will no longer have access to the health care he needs because the government does not want to. The PSD has all the support to make the budgetary changes it needs to ensure this response. The same is true of health professionals. We are at a time of crisis, we have already had shortages of thousands of professionals, starting with nurses, but not only, and what we see, in this Supplementary Budget, is €200,000 for staff. I do not need to explain to the Minister that this is not enough, at a time of crisis, and much less to prepare the next winter. Just as resistance is not understood to reward health professionals who have been in the front line. It is not understood why the Government does not accept the proposal of the Social Democratic Party, making use of this Supplementary Budget, to reward those who have been responding to the crisis of COVID-19. to professional players, if they win the World Football Championship, we give public money, as a prize for having represented—and well! — the Portuguese State and the Portuguese nation. Why is it that, in the face of the greatest ever public health crisis and this emergency, professionals who have put health at risk, who have abstained from holidays, weekends, holidays, who have stopped being at home not to infect their relatives, cannot at least be partially recognized? You don't understand. Just as it is not understood, Mr Minister, that if you are asking public health doctors in the Algarve to return the money you received for the extraordinary hours of the work you did. Why? Because the public health doctors from the rest of the country are not being paid for by the extraordinary hours they have done. It does not seem acceptable to us, because we have to prepare for the future and the public health system will be of critical importance. See what the Health Directorate specialists recommend: they are calling for an investment in the public health device so that we can control the pandemic, currently under way, and to prevent the impact of the next wave, which can happen in this winter. Now, when we look at the investment provided for in the Stabilization Programme, we see €700 000. I even thought that I had missed a zero, because it's not understandable, when we know that the public health device is what keeps our economy open, it's our barrier to continuing to keep the economy working,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u57	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u58	... that is not invested in public health in this country. [[PSD applause.]] This is beyond simple measures, Minister. You don't understand how we're not doing everything we need. For example, we allow borders to be opened and people enter this country, through airports, without any control, unlike all other countries. If you want to understand the impacts of this, look at New Zealand, which had zero cases and currently has the Armed Forces on the street. In order to ensure the preparation of the next winter, the government acted badly and late with regard to the invitation to tender for influenza vaccines. He announced an invitation to tender for 2 million vaccines, but as all countries anticipate, we have only 1, 6 million vaccines and there are 400 000 Portuguese who will not be vaccinated. Looking at this Supplementary State Budget, I don't see 1 € to go get the vaccines to another location. So, I ask you, aren't you going to vaccinate? Who are the people who won't vaccinate the 400 000 Portuguese? Or are they going to include this money later? Mr. Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, we cannot waste the effort made in these three months. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u59	It is Mrs Hortense Martins of the PS Parliamentary Group. You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u60	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, the PSD has just done the exercise of trying to confuse the Portuguese!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u61	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u62	I would expect more of you, Mr. Ricardo Baptista Leite, because I expected a serious intervention, which corresponds to the responsibilities that we all have here to tackle a fundamental problem that is this public health crisis. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the truth is that this budget has the answers that the country needs and that add to a State budget that entered into force in April, the State budget for 2020, which has more than EUR 11 720 million — a huge number! — for health. And we have to see that, in fact, public health was, and it is, something that has to be welcomed, and it is in this Budget, with the need to be strengthened. But it is not only at the level of reinforcement for equipment, it is also in the need to improve access to health, in the increase of hospital consultations, in the increase of surgeries and, also, Mr Deputy, in access to oncology. Obviously, the priorities have been set by doctors and no one who needs consultation should be left without it. That's what we need to say. [[PSD Member Protests Ricardo Baptista Leite.]] The fact is that this budget has this reinforcement in consultations, as well as the strengthening of intensive medicine, drugs and more vaccines, and it must be said that our national health system is one of the best at the level of vaccination, and you know that. But this Budget also includes the appreciation of professionals in the National Health Service, with more than 3,000 professionals who will be restricted to it and will thus strengthen our response. This budget brings us more than EUR 500 million, which adds to the EUR 941 million already contained in the State budget by 2020. This is why it was necessary to give the Portuguese, either at the level of better health care, or at the level of better access to the same care to respond to this pandemic, which we have this programme presented by the Government here. We know that this crisis has also spread to the economy and we also know that there can be no health in the economy if there is no good health for our citizens. So, Minister, I ask you if you do not agree that surely the way to strengthening the National Health Service is to re-growth in our economy and in employment, which is the way that we all have to go back to. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u63	To make requests for clarification, you now have the floor — and now is the time — Mrs Ana Rita Bessa of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u64	Mr. President, thank you, I will take the moment then. Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, one of the areas most affected by the pandemic was the school, of course, still mostly closed. in this context, on 9 April, Mr Prime Minister, at a press conference of the study initiative at home, had the opportunity to say — and I will mention what is in various media — the following: « A commitment that I am in a position to take is that at the beginning of next school year, » — and reinforce this idea, at the beginning of next school year — « what happens, we have ensured universal access to digital platforms, either online or in equipment, for all students of basic and secondary education». Therefore, and in other words, what Mr. Prime Minister announced to the country on April 9 was that, in mid-September, or when the beginning of the next school year is determined, about 1 million students in basic and secondary education would have a computer to be able to have their classes. What's more, this is what's been reported. Now, Minister, one thing that I am also in a position to guarantee is that this unconditional promise made on April 9, to assign a computer to each student, has no materialization either in the Stabilization Programme or in the Reformary Budget either. Yes, we are talking about acquiring computers and licences for public schools and for students of the Social Action School — which, in general, goes up to meeting the CDS proposals — but we would agree that between waving to families with a computer per child and then starting to start phase 1 of a digital transition investment, from just four years late, it is not exactly the way of confidence that Mr. Minister of Finance told us in his initial speech. So I wonder what families can expect to have in fact in September at the beginning of the school year, and in which part of this path of trust will have remained the word of Mr Prime Minister, given on 9 April. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u65	Mr Diana Ferreira of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor to make requests for clarification. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u66	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, the reality of recent months has been to deepen the inequalities and exacerbate the situations of economic and social difficulties experienced by families, which, of course, is not disengaged from the dismissals of thousands of workers and cuts in wages, much because of the layoff but also because of the loss of other workers' incomes, such as the meal allowance. All this in a country marked by the reality of low wages, in which more than 10 % of workers are in poverty, and to this reality there are numerous workers who have intensified the pretext of the virus. On this whole reality, the CFP has intervened and put forward several proposals to guarantee rights, ensure wages and other incomes of workers and to strengthen social protection. Mr Minister, the Government's Stabilization Programme has measures that are close to what the CFP has put in particular in extraordinary support, in the value of an IAS, for independent workers—and it is important to say here that the overwhelming majority of these workers are false independent workers who should, indeed, have an effective link that guarantees them more rights—but also for informal workers, and the CFP argues that all this precarious situation must be eradicated. The Stabilisation Programme also provides for a strengthening of the family allowance, although not with the necessary scope, changes in the scope of the RSI (social income for inclusion) or even extension until the end of the year of the social unemployment allowance, and the CFP has put forward specific proposals for this benefit and we have advocated the extension of all social benefits. But, Mr Minister, these measures identified in the Stabilisation Programme, and which Mr Minister referred to in the previous speeches, have no concrete translation in the lines of this bill, are not in the articulate that we are going to vote today. That is why it is important to know how and in what ways the government will implement each of these measures we have outlined. As it is also important to know whether large companies, which have benefited largely from the layoff and the exemption from TSU (unique social rate), will receive more public money in support of the normalisation of the activity. We speak of companies such as FNAC, Navigator, Bosch, Transdev, Faurécia, the Pestana Group, Continental Mabor or Douro Azul, which fired 500 workers to then have 10 million euros available to buy Media Capital.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u67	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u68	Will these and similar companies, after maintaining their accumulated profits over the years, seek even more money from the state's coffers? Mr Minister, there is another matter to be touched on. In June there is an average of 1606 new daily enrollments due to unemployment. In May there were 1441, since 1 March there have been more than 100,000 registered unemployed. On 8 days of June, collective redundancies already covered 617 workers, more workers than in the entire month of May. Super Bock, who distributed EUR 50 million in dividends, announced the dismissal of 10 % of its employees. It is also clear that it is necessary to stop, to ban layoffs. It is also clear that wages must be guaranteed in full to all workers, in order to combat situations of poverty and to guarantee dignity in the lives of workers every day, and what matters is whether that is also the way the government is willing to take. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u69	To make requests for clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Bebiana Cunha of the NAP. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u70	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, if the State Budget for 2020 brought the good news of an important strengthening in health, although we cannot forget that a significant part was for the existing debt, with the COVID-19 the SNS had a real proof of life, demonstrating once again the fiber of our health professionals. With this Supplementary Budget, the Government has a 4 % increase in health, but the government's options bring concerns to the NAP. Firstly, there is no increase in funds for hospitals. In the face of the difficulties of the various health units in the country outside, which need material and/or human investment, we would like the government to explain this budgetary option and it is considered this way that guarantees the best health responses and reduces waiting times. Secondly, in the current scenario, in which the implementation of an effective epidemiological surveillance network, in this case at COVID-19, is essential, more public health specialists are needed in our country. It is important to know, indeed, how many specialists in public health foresee this Budget. Thirdly, the appreciation of the professionals, which we recognize through palms and praises, should be recognised objectively. The inclusion of four-month health professionals is not sufficient. It is necessary for the Government to take up the commitment to resume negotiations for the revision of wage tables and the regularization of careers, establishing a timetable for that purpose. It is that if for the State Budget for 2020 this was not possible and we had an overhaul, then it is not possible now because we live in a crisis. That's what the government has been saying. So, for this government, when will this be possible? Fourthly, mental health. In the pre-COVID-19 period, the government has finally committed itself to implementing the 10 community mental health teams, but in the current context, in which we foresee situations such as unemployment, loss of income, various problems that will result from these socio-economic conditions and that are clearly added risk factors for developing mental illness, it is urgent to know whether this government investment in mental health has a long-term view in the post-COVID-19 or whether it is just a quick thought. Fifth and last, higher education, which has had a chronic de-investment, reflecting the job instability of teachers and researchers, the lack of investment in research scholarships, the insufficiency of social support to students, in the inclusive education network park. We know that the breakdowns of family income and unemployment inevitably affect our young students and young employment. If, on the one hand, the government pushed the belly for next year to teach the digital transition in education, on the other hand, in the case of higher education, not even caution. How is it that, in this context, the Government does not provide for additional funding for higher education, with a view to encouraging research, ensuring that Portuguese young people do not have to open up to higher education and to support students to continue for teachers and doctors? [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u71	To conclude this first block of requests for clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Sara Madruga da Costa, of the PSD Parliamentary Group. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u72	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister for Finance, the question I have to ask you is so simple, but so simple, that many Portuguese are probably wondering how it might be possible to do it again. Mr Minister, if the Government has granted moratoriums to individuals, and if the Government has guaranteed the payment of loans and credit lines to companies, and well, then it explains why your Government at a time of pandemic refuses to grant a moratorium and an endorsement to Madeira three months ago. Why, Minister? Where's the problem? Is there any legal or practical impossibility? The Minister is well aware that there is therefore no explanation of what the problem is and what his Government has against Madeira. What is your government's problem with Madeirans? Don't tell me it's because the regional government is the PSD! Is it because of the PSD, Minister? Oh, my God! That would be totally unacceptable, Mr Minister, because the Macedonians are Portuguese just like the others. Or has your government forgotten that? Oh, my God! Mr. Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, we do not accept — I repeat, we do not accept — that a moratorium on Madeira is not granted. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u73	To reply, Mr. Minister of State and Finance João León has the floor. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u74	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would begin by answering the question put by Mr Ricardo Baptista Leite of the PSD, and I would say that I am amazed now.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u75	Well? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u76	I am, in fact, amazed at the statements made by the honourable Member. First of all, in this context, are you concerned about private health? Oh, my God! [[PSD Member Protests Ricardo Baptista Leite.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u77	With people's health!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u78	If there is something that we all understand, in the context of this pandemic crisis, it was the importance of strengthening the National Health Service. It was a lesson for Portugal, for Europe, and in particular for countries based exclusively on the private sector such as the United States, where the response to the pandemic resulted in a social disaster. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I am also amazed by the reference to the funds that are included in the State Health Budget. Does he not remember that it was the PSD government that cut EUR 1000 million from the National Health Service budget? Oh, my God! [[P.S.'s applause.]] We, in a single year, in a difficult context, from an economic and financial point of view...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u79	Tell that to the people who are waiting!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u80	... — and we have no excuse for the crisis — we did not hesitate to increase 500 million more in the health budget and to reach a total of EUR 1350 million.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u81	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u82	I am still amazed at some of the questions you have raised about the vaccines and just wanted to tell you that, contrary to what you have said, we have reinforced at least 50 % the expected value for influenza vaccines. The information we have is that the vaccines that are already hired are 1, 6 million and are reaching 400 000,... [[Protests from PSD Members.]] ... which means that in total, it will increase 600 000 compared to last year. We have the greatest boost of vaccines against the flu that happened, sir! I don't understand your questions. [[P.S.'s applause.]] With regard to the question put by the Member of the Left Block on Electricity VAT, I would like to point out that in this context the initiative of the legislative amendment was the Government. It was an innovative solution, with environmental and social concerns, which, fortunately, was welcomed. It is an initiative for the implementation of which the Government has a legislative authorization, and therefore, in time and when it has the final approval of the European Commission, it will implement this measure. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I would also like to draw the attention of the Member of the Left Block to ensure that amendments to the Supplementary Budget, within the framework of the Constitutional Court's understanding, must of course respect the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u83	No, no! That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u84	That's recent, then? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u85	Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, I would like to point out that we understand what she said about digital school, but if we look at the Supplementary Budget carefully—and it may not be clear, in fact, I understand your question—you will see that there are three words that, in different ways, finance this digital programme. First of all, there is a more limited amount that was already planned in the Budget; then there is a substantial reinforcement of EUR 260 million, which is already included in the Supplementary Budget, of Community funds, to which other funds from Community funds which are not included because they are in regional operational programmes (POs), which are implemented through municipalities. I would also like to answer the questions put by the PCP Member Diana Ferreira, telling her that we share many concerns she has mentioned, but our fundamental concern is the protection of employment and family income. We note that they also consider that there was some concern in welcoming some of the concerns of the CFP, although not in its entirety, but we realize that they are not always able to receive in full. As you have mentioned, support to an IAS for self-employed workers is planned for a gradual improvement in the income of workers in layoffs up to 90 % at the end of the year, and extraordinary benefits are also provided for under the family allowance and an extension of other subsidies, such as the social unemployment allowance, by the end of the year. The problem of employment is a question that we have to follow very closely by the end of the year, because there is a great concern to ensure that jobs are maintained. I would also like to point out that, in the context of the policies we have agreed over the years, it refers to the great concern that we have with the improvement of wages and that in the last two years we have achieved the greatest increase in the minimum wage verified, passing this year to €635, which is also a very important measure to reduce inequalities. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u86	Mr. Minister, there are seven others. Members registered to make requests for clarification. First of all, Mrs Lara Martinho of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u87	Mr President, Minister of State and Finance today we discussed a Supplementary State Budget which, four months ago, would be unthinkable to discuss. This pandemic changed the world, changed our country and demanded another kind of response from the government, but also from the regional governments. The reality is that this Supplementary State Budget, like what has been seen in recent months, presents a number of important measures to support families, workers and businesses, and that is what I wanted to focus on. In the Azores and Madeira, the Regional Governments, and by exercising their autonomy, have adapted and created new support to meet the specificities of the Azorian and Madeiran families and companies. It is therefore essential to safeguard not only that all measures created at national level are applied to the whole country but also that conditions are given for the Autonomous Regions of the Azores and Madeira to meet current and future requirements. In this context, the new recovery plan and access to new European funds must meet the special conditions and challenges of these two regions. But this Budget also solves a problem: it already guarantees the financing needs of autonomous regions and not only in 2021, as recommended by the PSD and the CDS. Mr Minister, in our regions, many people question national solidarity, which, four months ago, did not happen. It is therefore crucial that this Government give clear signs of its solidarity and commitment to the autonomous regions. My question, Minister, is whether the conditions are met not only to respond to the social and economic emergency caused by this pandemic but also to fulfil the commitments previously made with the two autonomous regions. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u88	You now have the floor to ask for clarification by the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, Mrs Joana Mortagua.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u89	Mr President, Minister of State and Finance, I would like to ask you to clarify a heavy absence of this Supplementary Budget, which is the public school. It is an acquired data that distance learning exacerbates inequalities. And this does not depend on the digital resources available, this stems from the remoteness of children and young people from school, which necessarily has social, pedagogical and access to fundamental rights of young people and children. These damage, these consequences of the distance from the children from the school will be as permanent as the longer the distance lasts. That is why we believe that this budget should have an idea of what investment is creating the conditions for as many children as possible to return to safe schools. There may be many ideas and many factors that weigh on this issue, but they will all agree, and it is, in fact, to be discussed internationally, that there is one that is decisive, that is the decoupling of classes and the availability of more teachers, more therapists, more non-teachers to accompany the students returning, and that, over the course of this time, have lost a lot of material, and also to be able to unfold the classes. According to the Budget that brings us here, the school year will be equal to all previous years or, worse than that, will be equal to the last months of the school year that now ends. None of these options will have any other result than a tragedy for the worsening of social inequalities. So what I ask you, Minister, is where the investment is planned to adapt schools, so as to receive students at the beginning of next school year. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u90	It is the time of the PS Parliamentary Group, through Mr Carlos Pereira. You have the floor, sir, to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u91	Mr President, Minister of State and Finance, I would basically like to start with three notes and end with a question. The first note, as I could not fail to be, was to congratulate him on his duties and to wish him the greatest happiness in office. If it goes well, it goes well for all Portuguese and that is, in fact, very important. But at the same time as I tell you this, I would like to reassure you, Minister, by telling you that when a party congratulates a member of the government, in any way implying a negative comparison with another personality, that way of intervening says much more about that party than anything else you want to achieve.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u92	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u93	I think this is very important for the Minister of Finance to feel calm about what he has to do from here to the front. The second note I leave concerns Mr Duarte Pacheco. I would like to say that it is still loaded and even unusual that it is the PSD to bring to this debate the « elephant » of the New Bank. And it does not stop being charged and unusual because Mr. Duarte Pacheco knows that when the PS arrived in the government in 2015, the « elephant » had already left the entire lobby. It was all ruined, Mr. Duarte Pacheco! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by PSD Deputies Duarte Pacheco and Filipa Roseta.]] It was the PS, and the PS government, which placed all the nuts that you left of the New Bank. The third note, Mr Minister, has to do with Mrs Cecilia Meireles' intervention, which she insisted today, once again, after insisting on yesterday's hearing, in the forced comparison — very forceful, it is said, in favour of the truth — between the effort that this Government is making to save jobs and safeguard people's incomes and what you know very well because you supported it very strongly in the past, which is the card of austerity imposed by the PSD and the CDS. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Cecilia Meireles.]] It's all very different, Mrs Cecilia Meireles! in this Budget, if Mrs. Deputies notice, there are no radical cuts in social benefits, there are no radical cuts in public investment, there are no radical cuts in wages, there is no colossal increase in taxes. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Cecilia Meireles.]] Therefore, Mrs Deputy, it was good, for a certain political honesty, not to continue with this forced comparison, because that deceives the Portuguese and it is not to salute. Finally, Mr Minister for Finance, the question I would like to ask you has to do with a very important issue and a aspiration of the Portuguese economy, which is the Banco de Fomento. There is a great aspiration on the part of companies that it is possible to create a public instrument that can more effectively and efficiently distribute public policies by companies, ensure their capitalisation and private investment. My question is somehow to understand how the mechanism will be implemented and whether we are in a position to ensure that the country will have the Development Bank in full operation, as the economy and businesses need, when the next Community framework is in force and the recovery fund is available. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u94	You have the floor now, too, to ask for clarification, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u95	Mr President, Minister of State and Finance, the Supplementary Budget provides for an increase in the resources of the IHRU (Instituto da Habitação e da Rehabilitation Urbana) of EUR 55 million, something which, being positive - we recognise - it - is less than EUR 5 million, of the cost associated with the planned housing measures in the stabilization plan. This IHRU sub-financing is of concern to us because of the limitations it may bring in the future. So, Minister, what we would like to know, from now on, is why we should not take the opportunity from the Amending Budget to ensure a greater supply of public housing. Another question that we would like to ask you has to do with the stabilization plan, because we are also planning to create an urgent housing stock exchange, which will enable us to implement the country's Housing First programme, as the NAP has supported from the very first moment and cannot fail to welcome it. However, the government, instead of increasing the funding of municipalities, who have implemented these types of programs on the ground, opts for a bureaucratic model that we do not know how or when it will be applied. So, Minister, what we ask you is whether more effective implementation of these programmes could not be achieved by increasing the funds of the municipal social fund. In conclusion, another issue which, in our view, has been left behind and has to do with strengthening financial support for local authorities in animal protection matters. We recall that 50% of Portuguese families have pets and have been affected by this financial crisis, seeing their jobs and revenues threatened.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u96	You've outlived your time, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u97	I conclude now, Mr President. They have asked for help from animal protection associations to feed animals and the question we ask them is whether they will continue to support local authorities for animal welfare programmes or whether we will finally also make progress in this area. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u98	You have the floor for a request for clarification, Mr João Dias, of the CFP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u99	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Minister of State and Finance, I would like to ask you about what the health program is in this Supplementary Budget. We all know the requirements put to the National Health Service by this epidemic. Of course, we must take measures to treat patients with COVID-19, but we must also have measures to ensure health care for patients with other diseases, because they unfortunately did not enter quarantine and continue to emerge in our population. This budget, with regard to the strengthening of the National Health Service, in our view, is far from what is necessary in order to respond to the demands placed upon it. First, and of course, it is necessary to combat the coronavirus ( SARS-CoV-2 ) and at the same time to recover the suspended activity and continue to maintain the regular activity of the National Health Service. Secondly, Mr Minister, it is necessary to convert the contracts of workers engaged in the fight against the epidemic, which should become effective links. Thirdly, it is necessary to increase the installed capacity for acute beds, intensive care beds and, of course, also in terms of palliative care and continuous care. Finally, it is necessary to strengthen the National Health Service with regard to the need for more health professionals, in particular human, technical and professional means, in the area of public health. As far as the budget is concerned, Mr Minister, there are three very important headings in this health programme. Of course, as regards investment, only 15 % of the funds provided for in this State Health Budget is for investment. We can also look at the important item that is staff expenditure, which is 0 %, or, to be more objective, 0, 04 %! It's a lot of zeros, but they're on the left, and that means a lot. After that, more than 80 % of the money is for the purchase of goods and services. We must therefore ask the Minister : are you giving the public institutions the answer that they should acquire services in private? Is that the message that the Government wants to convey with this Supplementary Budget? So, Mr Minister, I would also like to ask you whether the Government is committed to ensuring that future contracts will be transformed and contracts integrated into the National Health Service with effective links? I know that the Minister has said that the institutions can redirect the money to other items. However, Mr Minister, it is important to provide the National Health Service with professionals. It would be fundamental! When Mrs. Minister of Health said in this House that health professionals deserve all our support, is this support and this message that the Government transmits to health professionals — 0, 04 %? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u100	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u101	I will finish, Mr. President. I would like to ask you, Minister, if you guarantee that the health needs of the users will be met through the National Health Service or if more than a million will go right to the pocket of the economic groups operating in the disease business? The message this Budget transmits to us is that it does not have the National Health Service. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u102	You have the floor, for a request for clarification, Mrs Marina Gonçalves of the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u103	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Minister, today we are discussing an Supplementary Budget that responds to a public health crisis and an unprecedented response to Portuguese families and businesses. That is an answer that is made in two times. in the first phase, the Government and Parliament defined a set of measures to support companies and workers, at a time when confinement and suspension of activities were necessary. Today we are discussing a second phase, where the economic recovery is prioritized, where employment promotion, public investment and more and better state are prioritized. And it's never too much to point out, sirs. Members, who, contrary to what we have lived five to six years ago, what is at stake is not a reduction in family income, it is not a paralysis of the economy, and that the cuts that Mrs Cecilia Meireles spoke about are not the cuts we are talking about today. Today we are talking about truly exceptional measures, measures that aim to safeguard people's employment and, above all, we are talking about more state, more social protection, more social benefits. That's what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u104	If it were your salary! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u105	This is a continuation of the 2020 State Budget, a guarantee of protection for the people, and we always have the same priority: to respect Portuguese, to dynamize the economy and to strengthen the social state. The Economic and Social Stabilization Programme is very clear in this respect: it speaks of the strengthening of important social benefits; it speaks of the safeguarding of new answers needed at this time of pandemic; it speaks of measures to promote training and employment; it speaks of the acceleration of key public investments for the country and our companies, with particular focus on strengthening the public housing park and the progressive elimination of architectural barriers in public services. And do so by treating them all equally, without social exclusion, without discrimination, without incentives to emigration, from young people to young people. The State intends to create the basis for the construction of a better society, even though in unimaginable times to combat a virus that no one distinguishes.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u106	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u107	Nothing we have discussed here should be seen as an exceptional response or an isolated response. For the Socialist Party, strengthening the social state is a natural process of responding to the needs of the population. Mr Minister, unfortunately, we have already heard from the mouth of those who have abandoned the Portuguese people when it was most necessary that the State failed, that nothing came out of the paper.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u108	Mário Centeno?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u109	For the Socialist Party that is not the reality. With the same humility with which we assumed that there were failures, with the same humility with which we assumed that there were answers that had to be improved and that, today, they are also here in debate, we also highlight what has been done. It is never too late to highlight the investment that has been made and all the measures to support families, businesses and workers. I would therefore ask you to remind us here of what has already materialized, of the set of measures defined in recent months. How many companies have been helped? How many workers were supported? How many families have been helped? I know that I am not asking for new numbers, but I am certainly asking for forgotten numbers for whom I fear to make these debates a very serious political struggle. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u110	I have the floor for the last request for clarification of this group, Mr José Soeiro, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u111	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Minister, we have proposed the extension of the layoff by the end of the year, but we believe that the support for companies must be redesigned so that they do not go through the cuts in workers' wages. We therefore wanted to ask whether the Government was available for this income protection measure and also for the protection of the internal market. Secondly, I wanted to talk about social deprotection. More than half of the unemployed in our country do not have access to unemployment benefit. The Minister spoke here of the proposal that exists for self-employed and informal workers, but there are tens of thousands of workers who do not have unemployment benefits and who are neither self-employed nor informal workers, i.e. they are neither in the self-employed nor in the informal workers regime. Who are we talking about? We are talking about workers on behalf of others with discounts, but they do not have the guarantee period for unemployment benefit and do not fall within the condition of social unemployment benefit resources. It's tens of thousands! We are talking about lawyers and applicants, who are neither independent nor informal, nor are they in the general social security regime. We are talking about domestic workers, who are also tens of thousands, who are neither informal nor independent and have no access to unemployment benefit. We are therefore talking about tens of thousands of workers who still do not have an answer. Last week, Parliament approved an extraordinary unemployment and cessation allowance which would cover all these situations. The Socialist Party did not join in this proposal, but Parliament approved it and it would be very important if it were to be included in this Supplementary Budget. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u112	You now have the floor to answer, Mr. Minister of State and Finance João León.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u113	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for your questions. In the intervention just now, I ended up not answering two questions. The first, more specific, placed by Mrs Sara Madruga da Costa, concerns the financing of the Autonomous Region of Madeira. I would like to point out that in the Supplementary Budget we propose two types of measures. One allows the additional indebtedness of the Autonomous Region of Madeira by more than 10 % of its GDP and also exempts it from the indebtedness limits provided for in the Financial Act of the Autonomous Regions.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u114	That's not what I asked!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u115	With regard to the question which the honourable Member has put on the follow-up to the question of Madeira financing, the Government will always have, as in the past, attention to the issues and the capacity to finance the region. I would also like to point out that the interests of the region have now been quite reduced in view of the level of interest set by the previous government of the PSD / CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u116	What about the moratorium?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u117	I would also like to refer to the important issue of the moratorium that puts there is a framework, which is as follows: within the framework of the European Union, there are typically no moratoriums between public entities, between regions and the State or between States. What we did, and we consulted the regional government at this level, was to give an additional debt capacity to cope with the depreciation of the loan that the region would have to make.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u118	That's a check without cover! That's a blank check!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u119	In the previous intervention, some questions were also answered regarding a set of questions on the health area. One had to do with the issue of mental health more specifically. As you know, the issue of mental health is also a strategic issue, of concern, that had a package of measures agreed with the partners who approved the State budget and that the Government will maintain, not letting any of these measures fall. On the contrary, the Government is seeking to strengthen responses in the context of mental health in the context of the pandemic crisis. I would also like to respond to a very good question put by Mr João Dias of the CFP on health matters. He is right because it is not obvious what is foreseen in the Supplementary Budget, but given the context of high uncertainty that currently exists about needs and to give more flexibility to the Ministry of Health in the management of these amounts, in addition to the reinforcement, which was more than the expected, directed to the Directorate-General of Health, the following amounts were affected by an allocation that was centrally available in the ACSS ( Central Health System Administration ). This appropriation is intended to cover much of the expenditure planned under the Stabilisation Programme, in particular the investment in increasing the number of intensive care beds. It is also important to strengthen responses in the context of the recovery of the programmed activity, and this will require more spending on staff than at present are not provided for in this specific heading because they are in such centralized appropriations. Therefore, these expenses are also not included in the funds for hospitals, as Mrs Ana Rita Bessa recently pointed out, because they are still included in the centralized appropriation, which the Ministry of Health will more easily affect according to the needs of the different entities of the SNS. That is why there is no provision for this amount in staff expenditure. Then there is also an important specific amount to provide the added needs of individual protective equipment, which we expect to continue to be necessary by the end of the year, within the framework of the national health system. I also wanted to answer questions about IHRU. In fact, there is an additional strengthening of IHRU within the framework of housing programmes, which adds a very significant reinforcement coming from the State budget. There is in this Budget Supplement a concern, which also fits with the Stabilization Program, to dynamize the maintenance and recovery of works in various social neighborhoods of the IHRU, in addition to the recovery of some state heritage, for affordable lease. In this context, a concern that we have in the State Budget and which is reinforced in the Supplementary Budget, is Housing First. With regard to the specific question you have asked, more specifically, whether this programme should be managed at the central level or in conjunction with local authorities, I think it will be better answered by the Minister who is protecting this area, who will be able to clarify these issues in the best way. Finally, I would like to mention, as Mrs Marina Gonçalves of the PS has asked, the strategic difference with which we have faced this crisis: we have sound starting financial bases and we are responding to the crisis in a completely different way than the one she had reacted to before. It is a response that has the fundamental concern to ensure stability, to protect family income, to protect the productive capacity of companies and to maintain jobs. It is a response which is also concerned to ensure that companies continue to operate, with access to means of financing through various channels — either through bank moratoriums or with additional lines of credit with State guarantees, either through contributions and taxes, or through the measure provided for under IRC. I would also like to answer the questions put by Mr José Soeiro's Member of the Left Block, which relate to unemployment benefit. In fact, unemployment in the current crisis framework is a concern of all, it is a social concern that we all have to be very careful and monitor. I would like to note that we have sought, at the level of the Stabilisation Programme and other measures we have been taking, an extraordinary set of measures in this area. There is an extraordinary measure envisaged especially for self-employed persons and even informal workers and there are new measures, measures that do not exist. It is planned to extend the social unemployment allowance by the end of the year, but we must also ensure access to all those who may need it, in addition to other measures. There was also the concern — another very important measure that has been taken — to reduce the guarantee deadlines for access to unemployment benefit.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u120	Only the social!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u121	No, the government has already legislated to reduce the guarantee deadlines for unemployment benefit.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u122	It was the CDS!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u123	The government has previously enacted,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u124	If Mr José Soeiro wants to vote in favour, please! The project is CDS!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u125	... but, Mr José Soeiro, if you wish, I can bring the decree of the Government, in which the guarantee deadlines for access to unemployment benefit are reduced, in which, I repeat, the government has already legislated. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Finally, I wanted to leave a message to all Portuguese and this House, a message of stability and hope. A message of stability in response to the crisis at this stage of economic stabilization. We do not propose, in this Supplementary Budget, any tax cuts, even though the parties to the right are very surprised, which even propose, in this framework, the creation of a temporary structure of the troika times, which they cannot forget, and speak in tax increases.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u126	Liar!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u127	We do not propose any increase in taxes in this Supplementary Budget,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u128	I said put on the expense, don't raise taxes!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u129	...we do not foresee any increase in taxes for the future. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We have a fundamental concern about the stability of the economy, in which there will be a significant recovery period of the economy, with an adequate response at both national and European level. This crisis did not have a structural origin, the Portuguese economy had a sound financial and economic situation. This crisis resulted in a sudden outbreak of a pandemic, which caused a very significant economic and social effect, with consequences also for public finances. I am convinced that once the pandemic has been overcome, and with the appropriate response both nationally and in European terms, we will recover more quickly than in previous crises and return to growth in the economy and employment, confidence and sustainability. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u130	We are still in the debate. Mr Rui Rio of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u131	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The debate of this Supplementary Budget is marked by the absence of the member of the Government who has led, technically and politically, its preparation. It makes no sense — and it is the only case in Portuguese democracy — that a finance minister, after drawing up and making a proposal for a profound amendment to the State budget, abandons the Executive on the day before he starts to defend himself in Parliament. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u132	They spoke more of the internal divisions and misunderstandings in the government than the institutional and political respect by this Assembly of the Republic, which is the same as the Portuguese people. [[PSD applause.]] at such a difficult time for the Portuguese economy, this attitude is not to applaud, even though I myself have only been here for a few months, to have already planned that Prof. Mário Centeno was in the run in this government. What never occurred to me was that, in the context of a pandemic and a serious economic crisis, the Minister of Finance left the day before he defended the document aimed at munifying the country with the budgetary allocations necessary to combat the same crisis. [[PSD applause.]] But reality is what it is and therefore despite clearly condemning this notorious failure of the government, the PSD wishes the new Minister of Finance the greatest happiness in the performance of the responsibilities that he now has. Prof. João León has the important task of curbing the spending impulses that, not rarely, assault socialist governments. A particularly relevant task on the eve of the country is to receive a great deal of money from the European Union to help us get out of the crisis we are experiencing. We must be very careful in applying these funds and capable of not yielding to political and party temptations that are not solely those that guarantee the best and most effective recovery of our economy. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u133	The supplementary budget we are debating today is an emergency budget, dictated by a very difficult economic, health and social situation. Its parliamentary inviolability originates from a huge degradation of the quality of life of all Portuguese people. Therefore, the early Social Democratic Party said that only a very exceptional reason could justify its vote against. The 2020 State budget undoubtedly needs additional financial allocations to combat the pandemic and relaunch economic activity. Therefore, on behalf of the national interest, we will make it possible for the Government to submit to Parliament, even though it does not agree with what the PSD would present if it had the responsibility to draw up.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u134	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u135	But if this is what Portugal needs at the moment, then that is exactly what the PSD will accomplish. [[PSD applause.]] This proposal for a budget amendment is drawn up on the basis of an overly optimistic macroeconomic framework which, if not verified, will lead to even more worrying indicators of deficit and public debt than those with which it is expected to reach the end of this year. The product will hardly fall more than the 6, 9 % projected and actual unemployment will not exceed 9, 6 %, with the consequent insufficiency of the public expenditure inherent to it. The tax revenue will also easily fall further than EUR 5, EUR 2 billion, due not only to a probable withdrawal of private consumption, above the 4, 3% contained in the proposal, but also due to the optimistic projection of the IRS revenue, which, very hardly, will achieve a value equal to that of last year, as the government in it foresees. The PSD submitted its proposals for economic recovery in due course. I will not list them here, nor demand their full inclusion in a supplementary budget which is not ours, but I will mention two which I consider of particular importance, one in the economic area and the other in the social area. In the economic context, the payment of government debts at 30 days and, in the social area, the strategic strengthening of home support. The moment we go through is the ideal time for us to leave behind the fame of the rolling State and assume the position of a good person, who pays what it owes in time and time. We have the conditions to obtain the necessary financial resources to pay to those who have provided the State and to inject into companies the liquidity they need so much. In addition, it would also be good if the Ministry of Finance returned the 2019 IRS that belongs to them and that it is too long to be returned.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u136	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u137	If the State wants to be respected, it must be able to honour its commitments in the right time and in the right time. With regard to strengthening home support, it certainly has to do with combating pandemics, but it has to do with the country's strategic need to have a more structured response to the ageing of its population and to an evolution of society which, in the voracity of its daily life, primarily harms the elderly. Supporting them in their growing solidarity must be a fundamental objective that the current health crisis — to which this Budget aims to respond — has made it even more evident. Mr President, there is, however, a statement that marks this Supplementary Budget in a highly worrying way: the astronomical value that is destined for TAP. in this proposal, the National Health Service is strengthened in pandemic time by EUR 504 million and the TAP by EUR 946 million. It is therefore acceptable to give TAP almost twice as much of what is given to SNS when the underlying reason for this crisis is precisely a public health problem. The TAP is technically bankrupt and has continued to damage the new shareholder model, which this government invented and which constituted the worst business for the state. [[PSD applause.]] TAP was unable to present a business plan after three months of paralysis and, in the redesign of its routes, showed to have only a vocation for regional company, ignoring that Portugal goes from Melgaço to Vila Real de Santo António and also has two important autonomous regions. Despite its tragic financial situation, TAP gave extraordinary wage prizes when it accumulated losses, and did not cut the salaries in the same molds in which all other Portuguese companies that entered Layoff had to do. It is legitimate to ask whether the tax money that can now be put into the TAP will also pay everything that, under identical circumstances, no other worker was entitled to this crisis that we are living in. [[PSD applause.]] TAP cannot become another New Bank, a black hole that continuously sucks the taxes of the already massacred Portuguese taxpayers. Not approving this Budget would mean that the company would close by tomorrow, since the private shareholders—which in it they command—do not seem to be available for it to risk their money. But approving this Budget does not mean for the PSD that the State should bury more EUR 1000 million in the TAP without a realistic and credible business and restructuring plan and that it does not, in parallel, assume two absolutely nuclear aspects: the responsibility for managing the exact proportion of its participation in the financing of the company and the imposition of a logic of public service throughout the national territory. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As I said, the PSD will enable this National Emergency Budget. It is not, nor has it ever been, on our horizon, the intention to create even more problems for the country than for those who already have, due to the health situation that the world is going through. It is our duty to be on the side of the resolution and not on the side of creating problems. We cannot abdicate from our ideological matrix or from the political supervision that we have to do as the main party to the opposition, but it prevents us from contributing democratic responsibility, as far as our possibilities are concerned, to the well-being of all Portuguese people, because what we must all move is surely the national interest and the prosperity of Portugal. [[PSD applause, stand up.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u138	Mr João Paulo Correia of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u139	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The exceptional and completely unexpected situation in the country, Europe and the world, resulting from the COVID-19 disease, led to the implementation of measures to respond to economic and social difficulties. The state has mobilized to the fullest extent: extraordinary and urgent measures have been implemented; measures have been taken to respond to the health crisis; financial support has been granted to families, workers and businesses. If, today, it is consensual that these measures were adopted in time and with the appropriate scope, it must be acknowledged that for this they contributed, and much, the state of our public accounts, last February, to public administrations with budgetary surpluses, the National Health Service with the greatest initial allocation of its history, the public debt to decrease to close to 117 % of GDP and the interest in public debt in historical minimums, at a time when there was a new threat to the financing capacity of the State and the national economy. at the same time, economic behaviour followed the growth trend in recent years: GDP grew 2, 2 % in 2019 — it was three consecutive years in convergence with Europe; unemployment was around 6 %; exports reached 44 % of GDP in the last quarter of last year, culminating in four consecutive years growing above the European average. It is therefore important to recall that Portugal faced this health crisis at the best time of its public accounts and with a full-fledged economy, which made the difference in the state's response capacity and in the country's external credibility. It made a difference at the time, as it also makes a difference now, when the government presents the budgetary review under discussion. contrary to previous budgetary revisions, the option to designate this revision « Supplementary budget » arises from the need to distinguish it from revisions which have been known as « rectifications ». This review does not correct budgetary deviations or cover disastrous political options, as happened eight times between 2011 and 2015. The Supplementary Budget gives financial implementation to most of the Economic and Social Stabilization Programme, which in turn seeks to support the efforts of families and businesses in the transition period between emergency and economic recovery. It is referred to as the Supplementary Budget because it responds to immediate needs in the fight against the health crisis, in the protection of workers' incomes and in support of the resumption of economic activity. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the level of economic recovery depends on the way and speed of repair of the economies with which we most directly relate in the European State. The ECB's « bazauca » ( European Central Bank ) was relevant when it announced the asset acquisition programme amounting to EUR 750 billion. It was also relevant to the Eurogroup when it announced a package of measures to protect workers, businesses and European States. It was crucial for the European Commission, when it announced the European Recovery Fund. by recognizing the importance of the European Union budget's 'power of fire' in the construction of urgent and structural responses and in the mobilization of means of support for the Member States, we are at the same time recognizing that the action of the Portuguese Government in the European institutions has made the difference. That is to say, we are recognising the merit of Mr. Prime Minister's work with European leaders and the former Minister of Finance Mário Centeno within the Eurogroup. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is true that we are living a cycle of some uncertainties as to the duration and intensity of the effects of the crisis. By the time of the Stability Programme, there were more uncertainties that would become felt, which generated quite fragility in the forecasts advanced by several entities on the evolution of the national economy. But despite the uncertainties of today's times, it is up to the government to draw up this Supplementary Budget, based on a macroeconomic scenario which we believe to be realistic and which is in line with the European Commission's forecasts. This budget gives rise to many measures of the Stabilization Programme: it strengthens the National Health Service in more than EUR 500 million, which adds to the reinforcement of EUR 900 million approved in the State Budget for 2020 ; it will be hired around 2700 professionals; it is given continuity to investments in hospital units; investment in the universalisation of digital education will exceed EUR 400 million; social protection has new income protection measures, such as the stabilization supplement to compensate for salary losses for those in Layoff and the supplement to the family allowance for the first, second and third steps;... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... will be re-edited the bet on the expansion of the social equipment network, through the third generation of PARES ( Social Equipment Network Enlargement Programme ) ; investment in small works will have EUR 520 million; support will be extended to enterprises, especially to micro and small enterprises, with new fiscal measures, with the extension of moratoriums, with a new edition of credit lines with State guarantee, with the strengthening of credit insurance, with new corporate capitalisation measures and with the creation of the Development Bank. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not forget the political-party quadrants who have rushed to take the ghosts out of the closet of a recent past, claiming that it would be inevitable to cut the cost and increase taxes and that the government would have no alternative but the path of austerity. It was a kind of ideological reaction of those who still feel frustrated and traumatized with the failure of the recipe served to the Portuguese by the time of the last economic crisis. For here is the Supplementary Budget, which does not delay or reverse any measure of the State Budget by 2020, does not increase taxes and does not cut expenditure. It's a responsible budget. The Government demonstrates that, even in an Supplementary Budget, there is a strategic basis: a strategy for sustainability and economic and social growth. It's a budget that leaves no one behind. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u140	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, from the Left Block Parliamentary Group, now has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u141	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This budget has said it - the government and we recognize it - is different from the corrective budgets presented by the right. The PSD and the CDS looked at the Assembly of the Republic as a resonance box of a majority and authoritarian government for the country and the Constitution. We well remember how these budgets were unconstitutional. We have repeatedly been to the Constitutional Court and have won several times in defence of people's rights, against this authoritarianism of the PSD and the CDS that removed them. I am glad that these times of authoritarianism before the Assembly of the Republic are no longer here today, because this House is just the mirror of the country's representation, of its democratic will. So if the government in power is the Socialist Party, it is because Portugal and the Portuguese wanted it. But if the Government does not have an absolute majority—and it does not have an absolute majority in the Members of the Socialist Party—it is because Portugal and the Portuguese did so. It is therefore strange that in the presentation of this Amending/Supplier Budget, so different from those on the right, there is a blackmail about the Assembly of the Republic brought by the Government, threatening with recourse to the Constitutional Court. There is something wrong with this story, because the government seems to have just moved the opinion it sent to the Assembly of the Republic. If I had read it in condition, I would have found that even in that 1986 opinion — already over 30 years ago — the Assembly of the Republic may, within the same object, amend the amending budget. And what is the object of this amending budget? Oh, my God! It is to bring the increase in expenditure, and well, to enforce the Economic and Social Stabilisation Programme. That is why it is called « supplementary ». It is just so to respond to the crisis and the social emergency today lived in the country. If someone came to propose something outside this political context, it would indeed be a mistake even politically, but it is not in any mind of the Left Block that idea. It is, yes — which may even seem strange — the fulfilment of some of the wishes that the Government says it has in the Economic and Social Stabilization Programme, but which does not correspond to the figures that come in the Supplementary Budget. That is the fundamental reason, from our point of view. The budget is insufficient, because it does not bring the euro enough to meet what the government said it wanted to do; it is insufficient, because it also fails to reflect some of the warnings that the Left Block has already made to the government at the various meetings we have had. ‘Do not leave anyone behind’ — a slogan repeated recently by the Socialist Party Member — is not to forget many thousands of informal workers, the cultural sector and the green receipts, who did not have access to State support. The government, even in the proposal it brings, forgets them. « Don't leave anyone behind » is not to forget the workers of the SNS. As far as contracting is concerned, what comes from the proposed Reform Budget is quite different from what the Government presented in the Economic and Social Stabilization Programme and, now, it is far from what it envisaged in the 2020 State Budget, which we have discussed here.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u142	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u143	I shall conclude, Mr President. 'Do not leave anyone behind' is also, tomorrow, not to leave what the government itself said it wanted to do today, that it is to revise the VAT of electricity, in the forms which the Government said in the Assembly of the Republic wanted to do and that the European Commission itself accepted it to be fulfilled. If there is a desire to respond to the social emergency, of which the energy issue is also a fundamental point, why not comply with what has already been said and approve the Left Block proposal? Oh, my God! One step back, Prime Minister, would also take that step forward. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u144	Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u145	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister and other members of the Government, Mr and Mr Members, Minister of State and Finance: The Liberal Initiative even admitted that this debate would serve to convince you that this budget amendment law is not as bad as it seems. In fact, yesterday I had the opportunity to suggest that I assume from now on that the responsibility of this law is that of former Minister Mário Centeno, such that the Government is prepared to appoint — or I would like much — for the Banco de Portugal, even before this Parliament has finished discussing new rules for appointment. A contempt for this House which, I think, is only allowed to the PS, who is the owner of all this. This diploma is bad because it does not have enough information to make it clear exactly the impact of the proposed measures. We say that, we tell UTAO and the government itself. According to the words of the Minister, said yesterday, the excuse is that the corrections of the governments of the time of the troika were also so, neither did they have any information. So we learned that for this government, it is enough to be as bad as the governments of the troika. And the governments of the troika are every day here vilipendi, criticised and diabolized. Sad lack of PS ambition, I say! This diploma is bad, because it's not transparent. I refer to two examples: the white paper to move in budget headings when changing the current article 8. that of the Budget, not realizing why — I asked, but no one answered; the loan to TAP, which is already assumed to be not reimbursed by classifying this loan as a capital expenditure. It's a bad degree, because it's incoherent in relation to various measures...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u146	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u147	I shall conclude, Mr President. As I was saying, it is a bad degree, because it is incoherent in relation to various measures and, faithful to the DNA (deoxyribonucleic acid) of the PS, it is a diploma that is unable to simplify, unnecessarily complicating several measures, such as tax credit or payments on account. But above all, it is a bad diploma, because it is stuck to the recent past, focusing solely on containment and stabilization, without anything that will bring us into the future.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u148	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u149	Waiting for the inspirations of a minister and the millions of Brussels, under the conditions of Brussels, with the priorities of Brussels, I am sorry, but it is not a strategy. Thank you very much, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u150	It is the time of Mrs Joacine Katar Moreira who is not registered. You have the floor, for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u151	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: A supplementary budget was an inevitability, but this budget should be of social emergency and of absolute combat to inequalities, and it is not. It is a very Socialist Party-style budget. It gives us the idea that you have enormous anxiety in fighting for individuals, for citizens, for their real and daily needs, but it is a Budget that ends up taking care of more than necessarily the urgent and real needs of the population. It is obvious that there will be an investment in IHRU and an environmental fund to strengthen the supply of transport, but we must also point out that in the medium term this investment and this budget will not meet the real needs of the country and people. What is expected of an additional budget is that it fills in shortcomings, but unfortunately this Supplementary Budget does not necessarily do this. It is also necessary to emphasize the absence of investments for exceptional and temporary measures that improve social protection.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u152	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u153	It should also be noted that, with regard to the payment of charges, an exceptional scheme is needed to support more disadvantaged occupational groups, workers without any means of subsistence and in situations of enormous fragility.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u154	This is Mr Fernando Anastácio's turn from the PS Parliamentary Group. You have the floor, for an intervention
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u155	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Ministers: This Supplementary Budget was prepared by a government team that presented five Budgets, which approved them in the Assembly of the Republic and executed them. [[PSD Member Protest Duarte Marques.]] He executed them well, as promised and without need of rectifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u156	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u157	Therefore, the team that presented this Budget, led — and very well! — by Prof. Mário Centeno, still as Minister of Finance, has done a good job and has credibility for this good work rather than other budgets of past legislatures, particularly in the right, the PSD and the CDS.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u158	Well remembered! [[PSD Member Protest Duarte Marques.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u159	And it is the Budget that is being presented and defended by someone who, as part of this team, has contributed to this work and therefore gives every guarantee to the Portuguese that we will continue on the same path that has brought us here, and well! [[P.S.'s applause.]] In fact, it was also at the time of the PSD to solve some contradictions that it maintains. I do not understand how, on the one hand, Dr. Rui Rio continues to say—and I said it here! — that Prof. Mário Centeno would be in constant conflict with this government and that is why he has left and, on the other hand, the PSD considers that such a person who is in conflict with the Government cannot be indicated by this Government to the Banco de Portugal. They resolve there this contradiction about the qualities of Prof. Mário Centeno and the reasons for government change.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u160	It's a fight!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u161	As regards the concrete budget, we noted with satisfaction that it was said by the PSD that it would make it feasible, but they also said that they would make it different. I know you'd make it different! We are perfectly in agreement on this, because if the proposal were the PSD we would not be here to increase taxes or maintain it... [[PSD protests.]] Don't! We'd be raising taxes, questioning the job... that's what we'd be doing. I'm glad it's different and we're glad it is. [[PSD protests.]] As for the bank, during this debate a great concern of the Democratic Social Party was transversal when it is talked about. The Social Democratic Party is the first to worry about the bank in particular and when it comes to providing support to it is on the front line, but then, when it comes to asking the banking sector for an additional contribution to stabilize social security, for example, reactions are tremendous. [[PSD Member Protest Duarte Marques.]] We realize which side each one is on. Some are on the side of the Portuguese Banking Association, others are on the side of the Portuguese and taxpayers. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Finally, with regard to TAP, as Mr Rui Rio has acknowledged, the current shareholder is not ready to move forward with the capital. I remember that the current shareholders were chosen by a government of their party. [[It's true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u162	Therefore, it is good to have the responsibilities for whom we choose. Now, if the model of the TAP recommended by the PSD and CDS was in force and there had been no partial reversal of this privatization, I also assure you that today we would not be discussing the feasibility of the TAP. Yes, we would be confronted with redundancies and the settlement of the TAP. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u163	That's what we'd be facing, but it's quite different. [[PSD protests.]] This is why there is a majority in the country governed by the Socialist Party and the PSD and the CDS are in opposition. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u164	For an intervention, Mrs Clara Marques Mendes of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u165	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, at this stage of the debate, almost finished, I wanted to leave two notes. The first note relates to the Economic and Social Stabilization Programme, in which the Government announces as a novelty an extraordinary financial support measure for the normalization of business activity. This is a new step only because it has finally left the role because it was already promised and enshrined in legislation since March 2020. It is a measure that should have already arrived at companies, even because there are many companies that have been in layoff for a month or two, for example, that have not requested an extension and that at this time they should have received this extraordinary support. So the government has failed once again what it has promised companies, it has failed once again with the support it claims to be so necessary — and indeed - it is! — to ensure jobs. Yesterday, at the hearing of the Minister of Labour in the context of the general appraisal of the Supplementary Budget, I had the opportunity to put this question to her precisely, but the Minister was unable to explain why the Government failed. This is a very important note, because, at a crucial time for the maintenance of jobs, the government could not and should not have failed in this way. The second note that I wanted to let you deal with the labour market, and I also had the opportunity yesterday to put these questions to the Minister of Labour — because he is experiencing a dramatic situation. We have come to see an exponential increase in unemployment. It is a fact that the pandemic came to reverse a situation that was improving — we did not deny it — but already before the pandemic the PSD drew attention to a situation that is now extremely important, which is that of the link between training given and the actual needs of companies at the level of vocational training. This articulation does not exist and what we currently have are formations that do not guarantee employability. The State cannot spend money on solving statistical problems, because we know that someone in training ceases to count as unemployed and that is not what is intended.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u166	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u167	The State cannot fail, especially at this time, and must ensure the existence of a greater articulation in reality, on the ground, located. Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Ministers, although unemployment is extremely high, there are sectors of activity that demand labour, particularly the metallurgical sector. Once again, this results from a failure of the government because it is unable to articulate the necessary training with the needs of the labour market. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u168	Mr João Almeida of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u169	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The social dimension of this amending budget is relevant. Throughout this pandemic period, from the CDS bench, we have often talked about people, private institutions of social solidarity ( IPSS ), authorities, companies, and it is for those who, in this amending budget, do not find the answers that we understood should be given. Of course, in the context that is present for people, what appears to us about layoff is a confusion based on a legislative authorization that does not clarify how the regime will work and much less ensures that the problems that have occurred in the past will not be re-occured. Then there are issues such as the unemployment benefit coverage rate, which is lower than ever before and which has fallen more than ever has fallen during the period of the troika, for example, which requires exceptional measures that are not in this Budget either. Mr. Minister of Finance, I would like to inform you that the reduction, by half, of the deadline for guaranteeing unemployment benefit is due to a draft law of the CDS and I am very pleased to know that Mr. Minister joins it. This draft law of the CDS is not yet legislated, but, of course, the guarantee that the Minister is in favour of it will give the Socialist Party the indication of the vote necessary for it to be approved quickly in the overall final vote and so that we can help the Portuguese unemployed. However, there are issues that are still open at this time. For example, that of those companies that have not closed, that have kept themselves open with effort and that have a kind of clock bomb by September. Why? Because, in addition to all commitments, they still have those who, from a fiscal point of view, have been able to postpone and those who result from the payment of extraordinary remuneration during the months of July and August, and in industrial enterprises there is still the problem of August being a month in which turnover is substantially reduced or practically non-existent in many of them. So if for the present and the recent past there were no important answers for the future. I shall end with the following questions: where is the revision of the partnership agreements with the IPSS that need to be strengthened? He's not! Where are the incentives for investment so that Portuguese companies can effectively achieve competitiveness, give more employment and pay better? They're not! Where is the investment in vocational training for Portuguese workers?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u170	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u171	Even above when there is European money to finance it and the Budget does not have the national counterpart so that we can make this leap...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u172	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u173	... and we can qualify workers, improve the competitiveness of companies and have a social cohesion based on subsidiarity, which has proved right now and which would deserve an investment by the government. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u174	To conclude the stage of the debate, you have the floor for an intervention, Mr Minister of State, Economics and Digital Transition, Pedro Siza Vieira.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u175	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This pandemic has fallen on the world in a very rapid way, at the speed of globalisation in which we have lived over the last few decades. It fell on the markets for which we export, and 75% of our exports go to the countries of the European Union. Our exports fell almost 40 % during April. It's a crisis that doesn't just touch us, it hits all of Europe and everyone. in these circumstances, there must be responses from the only actors who can respond to the size of this situation, which are the States and, in particular, in our case, the European Union that we are also part of. The European Union has already given us the sense of a response, to bet on a rapid reconstruction which, at the same time, launches the foundations of a more just, more ecological and more inclusive society. For now, it is up to us to react and react as a country, as a state and as a community. We have reacted in the way we respond to the health emergency and also in the way we strengthen our institutions and our society to face an absolutely historic breakdown. It is necessary to support and invest in our health system; it is necessary to provide social responses to those who, suddenly, are deprived of income or see it greatly diminished; it is necessary to support our small and medium-sized enterprises; it is necessary to support companies which suddenly have no economic activity, but need to preserve their productive capacity to be prepared for the recovery that will come. It's a moment of great uncertainty. We do not know what the pace of international recovery will be, but we know that the more determined the national response we are able to give, the more cohesive we maintain our community, the more we maintain the preservation of our businesses and jobs in our country, the more we will be prepared to respond to the need to resume in the future. This Supplementary Budget is the translation of how, with national resources, combined with the European resources that we have mobilized for this emergency, by the end of the year, we will ensure precisely the following: better health response, better social support, better ability to preserve the functioning of our companies and prepare ourselves for the answers. This is the Budget which corresponds to an economic and social stabilisation plan and which, following all the management of the health crisis, the Government called for detailed discussion with the parties represented in this House. I am convinced that almost everyone can recognize themselves in the way we deal with the emergency and in the way we take action. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This joint response, which is the response from the country, is also the response that the Government is preparing to carry out in the service of Portugal and Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u176	We shall move immediately to the closing stage of the debate. To open this stage, you have the floor of Mrs Joacine Katar Moreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u177	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We cannot fail to balance the multifaceted nature and even unknown of the impacts that this pandemic will bring to the national economy and to the international economic system. However, we already know the implacable nature of the COVID-19 in the social fabric and in the intensification of structural situations of unemployment, poverty, work insecurity and difficulties of access to accessible housing. It must be remembered that, even during my election campaign, I have successively associated social justice with environmental justice issues, and that was my approach in the last budget. In the current Supplementary Budget, we cannot forget the important and fundamental need for the intersection of these two areas: that of the environment, on the one hand, and that of social issues, on the other. They are fundamental to safeguard citizenship in a context of health emergency and, for this reason, I will put forward proposals that will meet the scourge which is the invisibility of the most vulnerable in this Supplementary Budget, as is the case for informal workers, of the homeless population...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u178	Thank you, Mrs. Member. You have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u179	... and of all those who are, daily, in distress and anxiety, because our Budgets always manifest themselves as insufficient to meet their needs.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u180	It is now the time of Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative. You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u181	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At the close of this debate, which confirmed what the Liberal Initiative said during the debate, it was almost essential to list the reasons that lead us to vote against this budget amendment law. This is a diploma which has several serious problems and which is not duly and in detail substantiated. UTAO itself underlines the existence of information omissions and the lack of response from the Ministry of Finance services to many of the doubts raised. It's a diploma that's not transparent. I repeat : the meaning of the current article 8 change is not understood. the budget, a genuine white letter for the government to move in the budget headings at its disposal, does not distinguish the budgetary impact of the COVID measures from the other PEES measures, does not realize what will be financed by national funds or European funds, does not strengthen the powers of supervision of the Court of Auditors, but at the same time reduces contracts subject to prior visas. It is an incoherent diploma in which some measures apply to all companies and others only to SMEs (small and medium-sized enterprises), in which some measures prevent redundancies, while the EUR 1200 million to be buried in the TAP will require redundancies, but above all it is a diploma in which no recovery strategy is seen, in addition to waiting for what someone in Brussels decides for us. [[PS protests.]] With an ambitious recovery strategy based on courageous reforms, we would have the opportunity to create a country where it would be possible to fight again to get up in life to work. But that's not what the PS wants! from the point of view, we will continue not to give real opportunities to a whole generation of young people, a generation that will not forgive this government for this missed opportunity.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u182	Mr. André Ventura has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u183	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister : This is the budget of Mário Centeno without Mário Centeno. Thus, only there is a clear indication of the disrespect the Socialist Party's Government has for this House. But this is also the Budget that silences a large part of the opposition. The opposition, which spends months saying that there is a lack of transparency and that there is more money for here and there, is the same one that today will make this Supplementary Budget of the Socialist Party viable. I say so that the Portuguese know that this bandage they present now will be made viable by those who pretend to oppose it. This is a Budget that forgets those who were in the front line, who don't give a word, a penny, an incentive to those who fought most against this phenomenon: teachers, medical professionals, health professionals, firefighters, security forces. They were completely forgotten! But this is also the Budget that sends the New Bank and Montepio forward, for one day to resolve, and that puts the great elephant of the TAP, which today we have to discuss, about this room. There is no restructuring plan, there is no business model, there is no single project to know what will happen to TAP over the next few years, with so much money and so many millions of taxpayers out there. There are those who say that this Budget has grace, but it only has grace in one thing, which is the fact that it marks the end of the Socialist Party's state of grace. From now on, from this Budget, every month and every year that passes will be another stone in what we have had from a government that has led Portugal to the greatest crisis that there is memory.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u184	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u185	Eight months ago, Dr. Rui Rio said it here, talking about the crisis there. I said it, too.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u186	Thank you very much, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u187	I am sure that, within a few months, we will be here pointing our fingers at the government for the greatest crisis that there is memory in our history. [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u188	You have the floor for the Greens, Mr José Luís Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u189	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As we have already mentioned, this Supplementary Budget, although it reflects partly some of the concerns of the Greens, is still, in our view, insufficient to respond to the set of problems ahead. It is insufficient, because support for families will not allow them to regain their purchasing power, which will have negative effects on domestic demand. It is insufficient, in addition to unfair, because the new layoff rules, despite mitigating this injustice, do not completely remove it and, therefore, with people losing part of their wages, persists the negative part of the anti-recessive nature with which this measure is normally presented. And it is insufficient from the point of view of public investment, which is fundamental to the revival of the economy not only because of what it represents in itself, but also because of the drag effect that it powers at the level of private investment. When we talk about public investment, we talk about public services, we talk about the need to promote our production, especially agriculture, in order to recover our food sovereignty, we talk about soft and active mobility or the need not to miss the train we were able to catch before the crisis, with regard to the use of public transport through the PART (Programme for Tax Reduction in Public Transport), a measure — I remind you — whose effects were very meaningful for people and whose results, from the point of view of greenhouse gas emissions and the fight against climate change, indicated that we were on the right track. But this insufficiency also stems from some government insistence, which continues, for example, to extend support to companies based in tax havens or to allow banks to decide which companies, by meeting the legal criteria, have access to credit lines or not. But it also stems from the option of allowing banks to apply spreads on loans made under the credit lines. That is to say, despite the positive signs that we recognize in this document, particularly in terms of the conditions for access to social unemployment benefit or social income for inclusion, in specific social support for arts and entertainment professionals, in measures around self-employed workers, or in the creation of an additional contribution to the banking sector, we believe that this Supplementary Budget is still insufficient in view of the seriousness of the situation and, therefore, the Greens will generally abstain. However, we will not refrain from making contributions that we consider important in the responses that are required. We will therefore insist on the layoff without wage penalties, on the creation of a treasury fund for micro and small businesses and on the need to be serious about recycling as a way to respond to an environmental problem, but also as a way to boost job creation.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u190	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u191	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: When, at the beginning of the year, we voted on the 2020 budget — the ostrich budget as at the time the NAP called it — we were still far from assuming that we would only be discussing and voting on corrections to it a few months later. The fact is that the arrival of a virus and the installation of an unprecedented health crisis in our recent history have brought us additional challenges with which we did not have, putting us again in a position of instability and enormous uncertainty about the future. It would be expected, in the face of such adversity and demand brought by the COVID-19, that the Government, obliged to put its head out, through the execution of its Budget, would be aware of the erratic meaning of some of its policies. After all, the investment in the National Health Service, which the government said was sufficient, was, before the health crisis, a quick thought; the bet on the digital transition, from which it was pumping and circumstance, had not even come out of the role; and the fight against the climate crisis, which deserved great prominence in the Government Programme, remains a mere statement of intentions. The truth is that there is still a huge gap between what the government would be supposed to do and what the government does effectively. in a particularly critical period, perhaps the most critical of our lives, in which fears about collective health are mixed with fears of a brutal increase in deficit and public debt, in which a total reduction of revenue is expected to exceed EUR 4 billion and where the future outlook is now more dependent on debt, or on Community support, which can never reach the necessary molds and amounts, is particularly incomprehensible the option of allocating resources to finance certain activities and sectors. It was already the case — we have already emphasized it — in a favorable health context and even more so today, when there are so many who cry for support. We see millions being injected into the bank in this budget, for example under tax relief schemes, at the same time that substantial support is not given to municipalities and autonomous regions, truly strategic and fundamental partners either in combating the virus, or in helping populations, in particular the most vulnerable and those in poverty, and that have often been called to replace the central State. We see millions flying to save TAP, but only crumbs remaining for culture professionals. We see the Government invoking labour law to deny social support, for example, for young people with precarious links or for the recognition of the work of essential service professionals, while still granting tax stamps to pollutant entities. Even in areas where important steps were taken, such as social housing or health, it is clear that we could and should have gone further, so there had been courage to better affect existing resources. There was no such courage, and this was because, once again, the government "has put its head on the sand" when demanding whom most should, preferring to penalize, even indirectly, families and those who live on the incomes of their work. Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The NAP does not endorse the view of those who consider everything wrong in this Budget, but also does not outline the idyllic view that the response given by the Government is sufficient and necessary. We believe that there is room for improvement and we will not fail to make our contributions, in the field of expertise, to respond to the multiple dimensions of this crisis, whether health care, economic, social, humanitarian or ecological. For these reasons, we will abstain from voting on this proposal in general. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u192	I now give the floor to Mrs Cecilia Meireles of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u193	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have already left the state of emergency caused by the COVID-19, although, obviously, we continue to face the pandemic. During the emergency period, Parliament fully demonstrated that it was able to generate institutional agreements and consensus so that Portugal would react as a country, one country, to the emergence of the pandemic. Certainly, we will maintain that sense of state. The racism and aggression we witnessed by the government and the PS, both during the week or, above all, in this debate, the aggressiveness and indignation with which those who dare to disagree with the propaganda installed or recall certain facts that have not been challenged speak for themselves. Above all, the conditions under which we discuss this Budget, which has been presented by one minister, but which is today discussed by another, show that the PS and the Government are beginning to have some forms of authority or authoritarianism, which are not a good remedy for us to get out of this crisis. As for the Budget we are discussing today—and the context in which it is presented, as I said, does not advise it—I would like to remember that this is a supplementary or amending budget, or what you want to call it, which is based on an Budget from which the CDS disagrees. It is a budget that does not answer the essential question that we should now be discussing, which is the question of recovery — indeed, the Budget itself says that it intends to stabilize the economy and that then, in phase three, we will talk about the recovery. That is the debate we should have had here today, and it is the debate that is worth spending. It is a budget that does not contain fundamental proposals, such as those mentioned during the debate and which have to do with income and employment, and which also leaves out many of the answers. Finally, it is a Budget that fails in an essential test: the test of simplicity and the speed with which the measures reach companies. If there is something that the pandemic has shown we have spent a lot of time discussing the measures and their design, but the most serious problem was not the design of the measures, they did not arrive as quickly as necessary to the companies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u194	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u195	And this budget continues to give no answer to this fundamental problem. For these reasons, the CDS will vote against this bill, in general. Certainly, we will put forward proposals, in the field of expertise, to improve the Budget and we will not leave, however much the irritation or aggressiveness of the Socialist Party, to tell some truths and to draw attention to the problems. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u196	For an intervention, Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u197	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The questions that we have brought to debate and the absence of an effective response given by the Government reveal the inadequacies of the proposed Supplementary Budget. This is a proposal which, on the one hand, is far from the necessary response to the problems resulting from the epidemic outbreak and its use by the economic groups, which led to abuses in terms of workers' rights, to the increase of exploitation, to the cuts in wages, to the destruction of jobs, and which, on the other hand, does not respond to the difficulties of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) in maintaining economic activity and the numerous shortages experienced in public services, especially in the National Health Service. The CFP will abstain from voting on this proposal, in general, contributing to the continued discussion of the speciality and giving the opportunity for the final outcome of the Budget to be substantially different from the initial proposal. It is necessary to respond to the impact of the outbreak, to protect wages and employment, to prevent bankruptcy and to ensure the resumption of the activity of the MPMEs, to ensure the functioning and relaunch of the economy—that is what this Budget should respond to. The government opted to bring a restrictive proposal, leaving out several sectors affected by the outbreak, whether in terms of workers' salaries, social protection, health, education, transport, culture and science, housing, associivism, whether in the economy, in particular in support of the MPMEs. The Budget does not include a set of measures contained in the Economic and Social Stabilization Programme, some of which, although limited, were close to the CFP proposals. This includes strengthening support for self-employed persons, taking account of current income for the purpose of social benefits or the allocation of an extraordinary family allowance. The budget reduces the measures put forward for the allocation of benefits and support to the economic groups, making a class option, with emphasis on extending the layoff by the end of the year, mobilizing public resources not to respond to the interests of workers and the needs of thousands of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, but to satisfy the interests of large capital. We will intervene, as we have always done here, with concrete proposals to solve the problems facing the workers, the people and the country, proposals which are intended to ensure: the full payment of workers' wages, putting an end to cuts in their incomes; the prohibition of redundancies; the strengthening of social protection, especially for workers who, regardless of their employment link, are in a situation of great vulnerability; support for MPMEs, preventing their closure and ensuring their role in the resumption of economic activity; the strengthening of the SNS to ensure their capacity in the treatment of patients with CVID and patients with other diseases, but also to respond to what has left these months to be done and to strengthen what was the main instrument with which the Portuguese people can count at this stage. As for TAP, the company must be put at the service of national interests rather than private groups. Therefore mobilisation of EUR 1000 million for its recapitalisation must be accompanied by the nationalisation of TAP. The final positioning of the CFP will depend on the content of the Budget, which will result from the discussion in the specialty, and the inclusion of solutions that we consider necessary for this moment. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u198	For an intervention, Mrs Catarina Martins of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u199	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Members of the Government, Members of Parliament and Members of the Commission. Members: The health, economic and social crisis is evidence and the responsibility of the public response is consensual. The last three months have revealed a broad parliamentary understanding of the relief measures to the population and it is also true that the Government has accepted Parliament's demands, particularly on the left, namely: the evictions have been suspended and access to essential goods, the protection of social security by the Budget and new social protection mechanisms have been guaranteed. We have therefore reached the debate on the budget with the assurance that it will be viable. But that certainty is just the beginning of our work. I'm asking three questions. First of all, is this Budget enough? Is this all the effort that the country can and should make? Secondly, what is needed? What are the priorities? And thirdly, are there conditions for significant progress in Parliament? The first question I answer is no. This budget is beyond what is necessary. The pandemic is not overcome and the social crisis is at an overwhelming pace. It is not enough to extend the measures, it is necessary to take a new step in social protection, in the health response, in support of the economy. And it is possible to go further: the effort this budget makes is lower, as a percentage of GDP, than in other European countries. The additional effort of this Budget is even below what, on a six-year night, PSD and CDS injected into the first BES resolution. Is our country worth less than a part of your banks? Of course not! The answer to the first question is the second: what further measures? The Block presents clear priorities: ensuring unemployment benefit to all workers; not leaving the precarious behind in the extraordinary support to those who have lost income; protecting pay in layoff; more contracts for public school, for one school year in safety; strengthening firefighters, who access COVID and also fires; more professionals for the SNS, with a risk allowance for those in the front line; and the end of moderate rates in tests and examinations. We want justice in the answer: to exclude offshore support and to require large companies, profiting from the crisis, a contribution to the response to whom they need. Finally, yes, Parliament has conditions for these advances. It has constitutional conditions, as demonstrated earlier procedures for amending the budget law, and has political conditions. The Government should not adopt a tax rhetoric. during this crisis, he was able to work with the forces of Parliament ; now, at a time of important choices, Prime Minister, does not fall into the temptation of self-sufficiency. A very large majority committed themselves to the decline in light VAT still this year and, last week, the special unemployment allowance, proposed by the Block, was generally approved, which leaves no one behind. It is now necessary to move forward in measures such as these, to make this Budget a stronger answer. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u200	For an intervention, Mr Afonso Oliveira of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u201	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There are some facts at the end of this debate that we want and are worth recording. First of all, the moment during this debate the Minister for Finance dropped the deficit by 2020. For the answers you gave, it was already seen that the government's forecast of 6, 3 % deficit has already fallen, it was already, it was. It has already failed to predict at the beginning of the debate! [[PS Deputy Protests Ana Catarina Mendonça Mendes.]] Secondly, the Minister for Finance has already demonstrated his ability not to answer the questions raised, and let me tell you, at the beginning of the discussion, it is not good. Third, frankly more positive: the exceptional character of the moment we live. As I said today, the President of the PSD, and very well, « it is not on our horizon to create even more problems for the country than those arising from the health situation we live in ». This is a positive fact and has a name: « responsibility ». Fourthly, in the middle of the pandemic and an unprecedented economic crisis, we saw the replacement of the Minister of Finance Mário Centeno, who resolved to "leave the boat" at one of the most difficult moments in our collective history. The acts and these facts remain with those who practice them! Fifth fact, which has been seen during this debate also to be very important and of the greatest relevance: the government's macroeconomic scenario is excessively optimistic in view of the forecasts of the main reference institutions. If we speak only of 2020, the Government points to a reduction in GDP of 6, 9 % when the OECD ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ) provides for 9, 4 %, the Council of Public Finance provides for 7, 5 %, the IMF ( International Monetary Fund ) provides for 8 % and the Banco de Portugal, as you know, still scored for 9, 5 % yesterday and said it could reach 13 %. The Minister of Finance has just arrived at the Government in these functions, but let me advise him to be more concerned about the seriousness of the numbers ahead and less of the little important issues, for which he realized in this debate that there is a fall, which is a shame. What is very important is that public policies supporting the economy and Portuguese are supported in a macroeconomic framework that adheres to reality. This is one of the cases where overoptimism is not a good counselor and is a cause for concern. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In view of these facts, there is a conclusion that we can withdraw. There is a huge risk in this Supplementary Budget, which is the response to the scale of the pandemic crisis becoming limited and insufficient — limited and insufficient! That's the big risk! It is a risk that can lead to corporate bankruptcy, a risk of growing unemployment, a risk of increasing poverty and inequality. These are the risks that the Government has an obligation to combat, either with this Supplementary Budget or with the Budget coming out of the Assembly of the Republic on 3 July, which may be different from what it has entered. As was clear in this debate, the Portuguese can always count on the only attitude that can be demanded at this time: a sense of responsibility. And it is with a sense of responsibility that we will achieve this Supplementary Budget, always on behalf of Portugal and the Portuguese. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u202	I now give the floor to Mr José Luís Carneiro of the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u203	Mr President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mr Prime Minister, Mrs. Members: The force of will and the conduct of Portuguese and Portuguese, reinforced by the example of cooperation between the Presidency of the Republic, the Assembly of the Republic, the Government and most political parties, and the working method of Mr. Prime Minister, open, dialogue and consultation with the health authorities and with the institutions of the country, have allowed to control the epidemic and ensure the response of the National Health Service, resist fear and trust in the future, mitigate the effects of the crisis on the economic, social and political foundations of the country. We've lived and we're going to live still very difficult times, but we're going to get past them. We have won the most critical stage of the emergency, we are winning the phase of defination and we are going to work to overcome the economic and social crisis. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, stabilising and strengthening the vital tissues of society, the economy and the state is the purpose of this Supplementary Budget, essential for us to achieve more cohesion and solidarity at the recovery stage, for which we will already have the robust solidarity of the European Union. The healthy democratic scrutiny of this Parliament, which is important to emphasise, must not under any circumstances diminish the value of the journey made by all of us to face the pandemic crisis and to now respond to a serious economic and social crisis. The international community has praised the effectiveness of our response. And it is not only in Spain that cooperation between power and opposition is appreciated. The Portuguese and Portuguese, who prefer weighting, balance and predictability to radicalism and instability, recognize and value the effort of political convergence among all of us. The Economic and Social Stabilisation Programme aims to support part of the still lasting effort of families, businesses and institutions in a transitional period between the emergency phase and the economic and social recovery phase. The Supplementary Budget is therefore instrumental in this implementation. In the front, we have very difficult times. The European Commission foresees a very significant breakdown in world economic activity, with harmful effects on our country's main trading partners. In Portugal, significant economic breakdown will have serious effects on unemployment, poverty and inequality. However, the 2021 forecasts already point to a recovery, with an expected increase of more than 4 %. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, only the continuity of the sense of individual and collective responsibility in terms of public health, combined with the strong commitment of cooperation between political, economic and social forces, will allow us to face the future with a prudent optimism. Converging at the moment is not an act of heroism, it corresponds to the ethics of democratic responsibility.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u204	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u205	Difficult the path of overcoming this crisis or acting with tactics will be incomprehensible in the eyes of those we have sworn to serve. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u206	For the last intervention in this closing period, Mr. Prime Minister, Antonio Costa, has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u207	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Supplementary Budget we are discussing today is a key piece in the response to the crisis caused by COVID-19, which has reached not only health but also, in a brutal way, the incomes of families, employment and businesses. This proposal responds in a clear and objective way to the question asked a thousand times and a thousand times answered: no, austerity is not the answer to this crisis. [[P.S.'s applause.]] They do not cut wages or pensions or pay taxes, they protect the employment and income of Portuguese people, they do not « tighten the belt », they create a « oxygen balloon » to help families and businesses overcome this difficult time. in the first stage of the emergency, the efforts were concentrated mainly on the containment of the virus, in the context of global economic paralysis worldwide. We are now at a different stage of stabilization, in which we want to support a sustained recovery of economic activity. If, so far, we have tried to control the pandemic without killing the economy, it is now necessary to revive the economy, but without uncontrolled the pandemic. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Therefore, it is no longer a matter of financing the suspension of the activity, but of encouraging the reopening of establishments and the search for goods and services, in accordance with the requirements of public health. This is the result of the Economic and Social Stabilization Programme, which the Government has recently adopted and which welcomes many of the suggestions made by the parties represented in this House, which, in fact, have rushed, many of them, to complain about the ongoing initiatives there. This Supplementary Budget is an important part of the financial expression of this Programme, complementing the financing resulting from the reprogramming of Portugal 2020 and the new European funds. First, in order to support the maintenance of employment and workers' income, the Supplementary Budget replaces, from August, the current simplified layoff regime, promoting the increase in the number of hours worked and the increase in the remuneration of workers covered. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Secondly, the Supplementary Budget compensates for the breakdown of income by strengthening social benefits and creating a new stabilisation complement, which aims to fill gaps in our entire social protection regime, and also enhances our social state's masterpieces, now adding to the 900 million euros of the strengthening of the National Health Service, already provided for in the State Budget for 2020, plus 500 million euros,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... making the budget of the National Health Service for this year 2020 amount to EUR 11 730 million, 10 times more than the so-called investment in the TAP,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... adapting the public school to the new digital age or promoting access to social housing, without forgetting the strengthening of partnership with IPSS and other social partners, in particular in strengthening the home support programme. Thirdly, it supports the productive fabric, increasing the liquidity of companies, adding to the moratoriums and credit lines a reduction or exemption from the payment on behalf of IRC ; but, now, it is particularly noteworthy that the answer to the need for companies to capitalise on the creation of a specific fund to capitalise small and medium-sized enterprises or support their resizing. Fourthly, the Council of Ministers will approve, by tomorrow, a set of diplomas necessary to combat bureaucracy, expedite the State and strengthen its capacity to prepare for economic recovery. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In addition to matters which will be the subject of a proposal for a law, the Government will approve, by tomorrow, the graduation of the IFD ( Financial Institution for Development ), the Portuguese Mutual Guarantee Society and SMEs Investments in a real promotion bank that can directly support companies, without the need for intermediation of the banking system. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : in the same way that this Parliament has been able to show convergence in the emergency response to the health crisis, it is important that we also do so now, at the moment of stabilization, as well as, above all, in the challenge that we will continue to build together an ambitious national recovery programme. It is enormous our responsibility: responsibility for the Portuguese to focus, with all our energy, on the economic and social recovery of Portugal ; responsibility for having extraordinary resources available by the European Union, which are a unique opportunity to optimize. No one will forgive us, particularly young generations, if we spread energy or waste the resources now available. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is a national challenge, it is a patriotic requirement for which we are all summoned: the government, of course; of course, those who, on the left, have turned with us the page of austerity and with us have built a path of more growth, better employment, greater equality, with certain accounts, trajectory that cannot go back or be left to step, but on the contrary, must be resumed with renewed stability on the horizon of the legislature ; hopefully also, with those who have been and are opposed and should not confuse the healthy statement of an alternative with the lack of a sense of democratic commitment; and necessarily with the social partners in their plurality. This is a collective challenge, of the whole society, as we collectively have faced COVID-19. Together we are stronger, together we will overcome the virus and together we will recover from this crisis and do even more and better for Portugal. [[PS applause, stand up.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u208	Mrs. Members, we shall generally vote on the Bill No 33 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Supplementary Budget by 2020. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PS were adopted against the CDS-PP, CH and IL and abstentions from the PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] This diploma goes down to 5. the Commission. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u209	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u210	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u211	Mr President, it is to announce that the PSD Members, elected by the electoral circle of Madeira, Paulo Neves, Sara Madruga da Costa and Sergio Marques will present a vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u212	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We move on to the last item on the agenda, which is from the preparatory debate of the next European Council, under Article 4 ( a ). the Act No 43 / 2006 of 25 August with the amendments introduced by Law No 21 / 2012 of 17 May—the Law of Monitoring, Evaluation and Pronunciation by the Assembly of the Republic in the framework of the European Union Construction Process, together with the debate on the various instruments of economic governance of the European Union integrating the European Semester, in accordance with Article 4(1) ( d ). the one of the same Law. To open the debate, you have the floor on behalf of the Government, Mr Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u213	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We said that a joint and robust response to the economic and social tsunami generated by the COVID-19 crisis was urgent. The proposal presented by the European Commission and which will be discussed at the next European Council offers a joint and robust response, and it is now up to the Council to ensure the urgency of its implementation. The proposal responds to the two fundamental objectives we had set for the preparation of the Multiannual Financial Framework ( QFP ). Firstly, maintain the current level of funding for cohesion policy and, secondly, ensure the current level of financing for the second pillar of the common agricultural policy ( CAP) for rural development. Both of these objectives are satisfied with the European Commission's proposal. On the other hand, the European Commission's proposal responds intelligently to the economic and social crisis caused by the COVID-19. First, it significantly increases the European Union's own resources from 1, 2 % to 2 % of the European Union's gross national income to 27. Only by looking at grants, without financial mechanisms or funds available for loan, the strengthening provided for in the European Commission proposal means more than 47, 8 % than what is the current multiannual financial framework 2014 - 2020 or more 41 % of what was the initial proposal of the European Commission, submitted in May 2018. Secondly, this strengthening of the European Union's own resources is achieved through a debt issue, with long periods of lack and maturity. The period of lack of this joint debt issue extends until 2028 and its maturity extends for 30 years from 2028. Thirdly, the form of payment provided for this debt jointly issued by the European Union gives the Member States room, or to reach agreement on the creation of new own resources, which the Commission also proposes several examples to ensure long-term financing of this debt, or of course in return for the increase in the contribution of Member States over the financial programming periods from 2028. It should be borne in mind what is the alternative. In the case of a stronger contribution from the Member States, this means more Portuguese taxes to be transferred to the European Union ; in order to create new own resources, this means more taxes to be charged in the economic area of the European Union to finance the European Union. Fourthly, this Commission proposal links the recovery programme to what the future is. First, in the strategic objective of dual transition, digital transition and climate transition. Secondly, in strengthening the strategic autonomy of the European Union, in particular in our efforts to reindustrialise the Union and us, Portugal, and to relocate many of the activities we have relocated to other regions of the world in Europe. If there was something that this crisis made clear, we cannot be dependent on such extensive value chains and so far from the centre of Europe. Third, in the resilience response to the crises. As has already happened in the past, the European Union must have instruments to respond to crises, both civil protection crises and public health crises, and crises that arise in particular from an economic and social point of view. Finally, the European Commission proposal has a good balance, a good balance between those who believe that support for States should be made on the basis of grants and those who believe that such support should be essentially guaranteed through loans. The European Commission proposal ensures that support for States will be two-thirds of grants and one-third of loans. A good balance is also obtained regarding the governance model of this new Recovery Fund: it is not a blank check, nor a new troika. What is created, inspired, in fact, in the Portuguese proposal for the budgetary instrument for competitiveness and convergence, are investment and reform programmes designed by each country according to their own realities and needs, but duly coordinated among themselves, in a global logic, to achieve strategic objectives that are common. And here are the strategic objectives: digital and climate transition, Europe's strategic autonomy, strengthening the dynamics of the internal market and strengthening convergence and cohesion. Here, the position of the Portuguese Government is very clear: this is not the time to discuss details, this is not the time to measure whether we could go a little further or whether we should stay a little further. This is the time to urgently respond to an emergency challenge. And for this we need to work to ensure that this European Council — the last one that I hope will take place at a distance — opens the doors for the first Council of the German Presidency to reach the agreement at the beginning of July, either for the approval of the next Plurianual Financial Framework or for the recovery and resilience programme of the European Union. To waste time is to weaken Europe, it is to endanger the income of European families, jobs and businesses. There is no time to take risks, there is time to decide, and this is the time of commitment. And here we are to say « yes » to this compromise proposed by the European Commission. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u214	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's get into the debate. You have the floor on behalf of the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group, Mr Luís Capoulas Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u215	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This debate, in addition to its importance and topicality, stems from two legal imperatives concerning the participation of the Assembly of the Republic in the issues of European policy that the timetable coincided with in this session. These are: the debate on the European Semester and the debate on the next European Council, which will take place this week, mainly on the future multiannual financial framework and recovery plan, within the framework of the European Union's response to the crisis resulting from the COVID-19. Due to the current context, this year's European Semester is obviously and necessarily the object of a specific approach, around two dimensions: the immediate response, in terms of economic and social policy, to combat and mitigate the impact of COVID-19 ; and the relaunch of the activity and growth trajectory, according to the objectives assumed of ecological transition and digital transformation. There is positive recognition by the Commission in the report on Portugal of the progress made by our country and of the consistency of national policies with the European guidelines, as highlighted by the recommendations for 2020 and 2021. However, for the full implementation of these objectives, it is absolutely necessary for the Council this week and probably the following of July, as well as the European Parliament's decision in autumn to confirm the recent Commission proposals and the speech of the main European leaders. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are living, as we all know, a historic moment, a moment of no doubt of great difficulties, which we must turn at national and European levels into a great opportunity. We are pleased, and we are also proud, because you do not say so, that the position of Portugal and its Prime Minister has gradually been extended and is today a majority position in the Council, well translated into the Commission proposals that will be discussed at the European Council meeting this Friday. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u216	But the Budget is the same!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u217	We are all reminded of the diplomatic actions carried out by the Prime Minister and the Government to harmonize positions between the so-called Friends of Cohesion and the multiplicity of bilateral contacts, including with France and Germany, to establish bridges between the various actors in the Council. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group considers it very positive, both the Franco-German initiative and the Commission's proposals, and recognises the great importance of the qualitative balance which they mean, and that few, even a few weeks ago, they risked Vaticaning. We are fully aware that the proposals under discussion are still far from being a given, given the strong objections that they still deserve to some Member States, even having a formal rejection in their national parliament. It causes us, therefore, the most strangeness, and even some outrage, the devaluation that some political forces have been making of these objective facts that are a historical turning point in the European Union and that make us believe in the relaunching of the European project and the existence of leaders in the face of the challenges of the troubled times we live. Only a total distance from reality or an attempt to diminish the role and contributions of the Government of Portugal for purely internal policy purposes can justify such positions. We therefore believe that the Commission's proposals are an excellent basis for the difficult negotiating process that is going on and we hope that the final decision will have a close set-up of the current proposals. I recall, for the most forgotten, that in 2014 the government then proclaimed as a huge victory for Portugal the results achieved for the period 2014 - 2020, which resulted in a global cut in real terms over 10 % compared to the previous table. The current Commission proposals to be approved as they are would guarantee Portugal an increased volume of financial support, considering only the component of deep-disbursed subsidies, above at least 40 % compared to the current framework, in addition to the advantages of flexibility in implementing rules of various financial instruments and simplification of procedures, alongside the concentration of resources, contrary to traditional ones, in the early years of the programming period. in this regard, on behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, in addition to urging the Government to continue, without fail, its political orientation in European matters, which has credibility and prestige in the country and contributed to the renaissance of the founding values of the European Union, I should like to ask the Prime Minister what his expectations are with regard to the results of the next European Council, as well as what red lines Portugal will not exceed within the framework of concessions which the pursuit of unanimity will necessarily impose, so that in the end, a result in which all 27 can be recognised. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u218	On behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Isabel Meireles has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u219	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In the cloisters of the Jerónimos Monastery, to remind us of travel that so many have made for us, we celebrated the 35 years of the Portugal Treaty of Accession to the then communities. Portugal thus became 11. the Member State. The Schengen Agreement was also signed 35 years ago, which is one of the former books of Europe and allows the free movement of persons and workers. But the virus reminded us, again, that what is a Europe without this freedom of movement, reminded us of what is to be counted dead, reminded us of what is to practice war medicine, reminded us of what is to be threatened by the internal market, due to anti-competitive practices not only between Member States, but also between economic blocs, particularly at the level of state aid. That is to say, the European project is no longer, unfortunately, life insurance. However, the Recovery Fund can be a beacon on the horizon that rips several dogmas because it will be financed by loans obtained by the European Commission itself, a risk-sharing mechanism in relation to the resulting debt and therefore a perfectly innovative formulation. However, personally, I am not very excited or positive about the next European Council. Why? Because the positions of some countries are too extreme. Then, because it is crucial—and sometimes the rush is an enemy of consensus—that these funds, including the Plurianual Financial Framework, are ready in January 2021. And also because, in the midst of all these negotiations, there will be significant delays, and I assume, the German presidency will want to take the praise of the closure of this negotiation. I therefore ask the Prime Minister if he believes that this week's European Council will bring white smoke to the Plurianual Financial Framework and the Recovery Plan. Another difficulty, which has not been much talked about and which seems extremely dangerous to me, is the conflict of legitimacy between the Court of Justice of the European Union and the German Constitutional Court. The latter considers that the purchase of assets by the European Central Bank exceeds the mandate of this institution, violates the law of the European Union and, worse than that, considers that Germany should no longer participate in the programme and that the debt securities on its balance sheet should be sold under a long-term strategy. However, since the Bundesbank has a subscription of about 21, 5 % in the capital of the ECB, it is therefore the most important member, it includes the impact of this judgment of the German Constitutional Court on the fight against pandemic, in particular the ECB, which has done absolutely exceptional work in the various crises.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u220	It's just solidarity!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u221	Therefore, after Mr Bruno Dias, I ask the Prime Minister how he sees the resolution of this conflict, which has to do with the recurring issue of the primacy of European Union law on national rights, in particular when they violate the Basic Law of the countries, i.e. their Constitutions. In the meantime, the Government approved the Economic and Social Stabilization Programme to halt the hemorrhage caused by the pandemic, at least until European aid comes. But you, Mr. Prime Minister, said, and I quote: "There is no plan to save us from pain. This crisis is hurting and it's going to hurt. » Does this not mean, Mr. Prime Minister, that we are going to have such austerity, even though we have always refused? Finally, and because the PSD likes to make a constructive opposition, we leave here a contribution, a suggestion, if there is a lack of consensus in this or in the next European Councils. I am referring to a mechanism of enhanced cooperation, which is envisaged in the Treaties, and which enables States that claim it to move forward as quickly as possible in European integration, of which the example of the euro and the euro area union is the most complete. That is, if this budget, and in particular the European Commission Recovery Plan, fails to achieve unanimity in the Council, it would be to go for enhanced cooperation and remain with the other Member States only with the negotiation of the multiannual financial framework. I know this is a very "out of the box" suggestion, but sometimes this is how the solutions to questions are found with a difficult to enforceability.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u222	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u223	If possible, I would say—and forgive the immodesty—that could rival the harmony of a Mozart sonata. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u224	It is the turn of the Left Block Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Fabíola Cardoso has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u225	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: COVID-19 has already infected more than 8 million people and caused 200 000 deaths, only here and in Europe. But the pandemic also accentuated pre-existing social inequalities and caused the destruction of jobs and the slowing down of large sectors of the economy. Today we are preparing for the next European Council and the promise of solidarity now announced is different from what happened during the sovereign debt crisis. Nevertheless, the doubts about the emergency response on the European Commission's proposed Economic Recovery Fund are many. Perhaps Mr. Prime Minister can try to answer some of them. Is the announced fund sufficient to deal with the emergency situation, not only health but also economic and social? I recall that only the increase in the projected deficit by 2020 — EUR 13 billion — is virtually exhausted from Portugal's share. Will the announced amounts be made available without responsibly conditionalities or will we be walking towards a near future equal to a recent past of conditionalities to the troika? Will we turn to the next generation a future of austerity? Will the Portuguese Government agree to a proposal that further reduces the amounts or worsens the conditions associated with it? If the new own resources, intended to finance the payment of the debt, are not approved, will they accept the alleged lost fund to turn into debt? For the Left Block, a subfinanced and over-conditioned recovery fund does not guarantee the necessary effectiveness and size. In the face of an unprecedented crisis, solidarity is required without austerity. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u226	The data are scary and reinforce what the Left Block has been saying. According to Eurostat, the number of employees decreased five times in Portugal than in the European Union in the first quarter. The biggest targets have been workers in a precarious situation, including by companies, large companies of perfect economic health. But there are double unprotected. According to data from the National Institute of Statistics, 90 % of the jobs officially lost in Portugal in the last three months were occupied by women — 90 %! And we still have little information on how the pandemic affected racialized populations, with functional or non-regulatory diversity, in sexual terms. We can't let the tree cover the mountain. In other words, we need to look not only at the urgent need for an emergency, but also to dare to think about the future. We've learned something in the last few months, or everything would be the same. If a few months ago we opposed a too small multiannual financial framework which penalized essential sectors for national sovereignty and development, such as cohesion and agriculture, I would ask: what has changed? The provision of resources cannot be a waste of money on obsolete modes of operation. The major strategic priorities must defend decarbonisation and digitisation, yes — a round 'yes'! — but must also ensure, in return for European support, a concrete improvement in times, links, working conditions, gender equality, inclusion of all people, and should be addressed to companies not linked to offshore and include strategies for strengthening, democracy and citizen participation. These are the conditionalities that also need to be placed on the negotiating table. The recovery effort should focus on reducing inequalities and discrimination. In order to have a future, Europe, in addition to being green and digital, should also be socially fair and inclusive, guaranteeing each person a dignified life, fulfilling his motto — « United in Diversity ». Don't you agree, Prime Minister? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u227	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u228	You have the floor by the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr Bruno Dias.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u229	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As the CFP has already pointed out, in the face of the outbreak of COVID-19, the European Union has dropped the mask of solidarity and cooperation, revealing its true nature and the prevalence of the interests of the main powers and the interests of the major economic groups, to the detriment of the defence of the peoples. A Recovery Fund of EUR 750 billion was announced to support economic recovery. The proposal provides for EUR 500 billion to be distributed by the States in the form of grants, which means a sum of EUR 15 billion for Portugal, which does not compensate for the consequences of the euro, the single market and common policies and which is far from responding to the needs of the country. It is said that the majority will come as a subsidy to States, but it is omitted - what will happen later in the invoice, i.e. that a loan contracted by the European Commission will have to be reimbursed by means of increases in State participations or, more likely, by future and additional cuts in the funds to which each State will have access, and/or by means of blackmail already in progress on the so-called 'own resources' and 'European taxes' in the framework of the tax union project. And we have already seen this film: further, the reimbursement needs will be a pretext for creating new taxes on States on behalf of draconians « adjustment paths » to the budgetary objectives and the debt reference values imposed by the European Union. Moreover, a glimpse of this is already possible in the latest « country recommendations » issued by the European Commission. In practice, however, we would be in the face of an advance on account of future payments, with the aggravating of new shares of national sovereignty being committed, in tax matters, to the definition of an industrial development policy in the shadow and on behalf of an artificial European sovereignty. At the same time, all the measures under discussion are associated with the criteria of the European Semester, an ambitious reform plan, an even greater deepening of the single market, the concentration and privatization of public services, including in health services, and the financing of large projects within the framework of the so-called « digital and environmental transition », aligned with the interests of multinationals and new rows, and threads, in the exploitation of workers and peoples. Such steps, to be implemented, would mean a much more serious abdication of sovereignty at the economic level, of revenue and tax sovereignty, a deepening of the already unsustainable indebtedness of the country, a tighter framework of external dependence and constraints and additional taxes. Regardless of the contradictions that mark this and other discussions in the European Union — and which are inextricable from their nature —, what is confirmed is that this framework puts, with even greater emphasis, the need for a break in the political options in this area; it puts even more urgency and urgency in the alternative proposals presented by the CFP in April and here we have taken up this preparatory debate of the European Council, and we are now returning to it ; and it is also more important for our collective future, the question of convergence in the fight against the European Union's taxes and the release of the country from submission to the euro, in conjunction with the renegotiation of public debt. This is the way that becomes increasingly necessary, for a free and sovereign Portugal and for the construction of a future of progress and development. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u230	You have the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the CDS-PP, Mr João Pinho de Almeida.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u231	Mr President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr. Ministers and Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: The next European Council is certainly important and we all want this European Union reaction process to a totally exceptional situation, but it is also moving towards the end of matters that were open, which did not have a solution in which Portugal was reviewing itself. I remember that in the last debates we had here before European Councils, we all agreed to reject what was at the time the European proposal for the multiannual financial framework. So it is important that we discuss everything, one part and the other. The first question — the reaction to the pandemic crisis and what Portugal has defended since the beginning, in a logic of opposition to loans. The solution will have grants and loans, and it has a very significant weight of subsidies. This is important, that is what the Portuguese State has always defended. But it is also important to say to the other side, and Mr Prime Minister did not forget this in the initial intervention, that even subsidies have to be paid, because they mean indebtedness to the whole of the European Union, which obviously will have to be paid, and that implies making choices, for example between taxes paid in the national context or taxes paid in the European context. That is an interesting question for us to know what we are discussing. Mr Prime Minister did not run away from the issue — I welcome him – and he said that the second hypothesis, if we do not have European taxes, is to increase our national contribution. This contribution must therefore come from national taxes. It would be interesting for the debate to know the following: if that were the case, how much more would we have to increase national participation? I ask this in order to know what we are actually discussing, what comes to a question that I will put next: apart from this fiscal issue, is there an institutional issue or not? Is there a possibility that an amendment to the decision-making method on these matters could be put on the table? Can it or should it not be at this time that the end of the unanimity rule and the veto in fiscal policy are at stake? I ask this because it is an issue that we need to know, because we cannot say that it is better to have subsidies than loans and think it is a detail if we have to disregard the main instrument we have today, which is the right to veto in tax matters. Is there a risk or not? In addition, the Plurianual Financial Framework was bad, we all agreed. There is now an extra significant amount, because there are significant extra needs. What does the Prime Minister think is in addition to the Recovery Fund and all the instruments created now that it makes a multiannual financial framework, which was bad for seven years, good for seven years, although only part of these funds is applied? What's the difference this makes? One last question, Prime Minister: the outlook for each country's economic development is relevant to the eligibility for the funds to which we will have access. Portugal, the Portuguese Government opted for a recession forecast significantly below that of other institutions. I wonder if the fact that the Portuguese Government has made this forecast, which is beyond the forecast that other international institutions make, may or may not prejudice Portugal's eligibility for these funds, because of course we will be considered as a State that has a more favourable situation than it might actually have. [[Congratulations from the CDS-PP and PSD Member Duarte Marques.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u232	For an intervention, Mrs. Cristina Rodrigues of the NAP has the floor. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u233	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The crisis of the COVID-19 has deeply affected all the world's economies and represents the greatest challenge imposed on Europe after the Second World War. the importance of the European Commission's proposals for the recovery plan and the next multiannual financial framework, which will be discussed at the European Council on 18 and 19 June. These proposals have already been discussed at the last meeting of the Economic and Finance Council, in which the enormous differences between the positions of the Member States in several key points have been made clear, in particular as regards the overall value, that the so-called frugal countries want to be much smaller, and the type of indicators to be used, and that Germany, Poland and Spain consider that they should be pre-crisis and most other disputes, arguing that the level of impact of the pandemic should be the focus. This amendment will allow the European Commission, in addition to promoting new taxes — in particular on polluting industries, which, in our view, must happen as soon as possible, or financial transactions — to go to the financial markets - and then distribute these values by the Member States in the form of grants and loans... [[Pause.]] I changed a sheet, so the intervention was a bit weird. [[Pause.]] Europe needs a joint and effective response in the current framework, and if the recovery instruments and the planned multiannual financial framework are not implemented, it is the future of the European Union itself that will be at risk. It also stresses the importance of the European Semester, which represents the European Union's economic policy coordination system, and aims to ensure sound public finances, preventing excessive public deficits, avoiding excessive macroeconomic imbalances in the European Union and supporting structural reforms in order to create more employment and growth and stimulate investment in the European Union. We must therefore make every effort to ensure that this systematic reflection is met and that it results in a solid interconnection between the European countries in order to overcome this profound crisis. [[Pause.]] Once I've changed the leaves again, I'm going to go to the questions, because it seems to me that it's easier. [[Laughing.]] Mr Prime Minister, will you, at the next European Council, defend the proposals put forward by the European Commission for the recovery plan and the multiannual financial framework? And, in particular, as regards the types of transfers, should or should not be a majority of grants to the detriment of loans? With the change of Minister of Finance, is the government thinking about changing the type of castrative policies of public services, significantly reducing captives? What are the main changes the Government is considering in the economic policy plans of the European Semester to adapt them to the new post-COVID reality and to the establishment of the Recovery Fund? [[Congratulations from PSD Member Duarte Marques.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u234	Madam Member, you have concluded in large and without changing any more leaves! Open... [[Laughing.]] Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Greens has the floor for one speech. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u235	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This Council will certainly focus its attention on the response to the social and economic crisis that the peoples of Europe are also living in the wake of the pandemic that has settled between us. But the European Union has shown us for a long time that it has only little or nothing in union. So when we hear what is going on again and again and again that there comes a great cake from Europe to address the effects caused by the health crisis. We have more than enough reasons to stand back because, as it is said in my land, "when alms is much, the poor distrust" and we are so suspicious of goodwill, coming from who comes. We have heard the announcements that much of the money is given as grants to the Member States, notices, and indeed repeated until exhaustion, but nothing is said about the possibility of payment of the loan that gives the Fund, which will be supported in future by the countries themselves, by increasing contributions or by creating European taxes. That is to say, we do not know whether we are faced with a truly supportive aid or whether we are talking about a mere advance to be paid by the respective Member States in the future. It would therefore be very timely for us to understand the real nature of this Fund, which, moreover, is still dependent on approval. And it was important not only because of the effects it will have in the future, if we have to bear it, but also because of what can be done, in particular more transfer of sovereignty to the European Union, this time in tax matters, and so can represent in terms of deepening, in the view of some, which is the process of integration. In other words, what I would be interested in is whether we are facing a bazouca or whether we are facing a boomerang, which comes, but which comes back, and here worse, because when we return to Europe it may still have side effects on the level of our sovereignty. Mr Prime Minister, the question I would like to ask you is whether the Government is available to resist any attempts at new transfers of sovereignty from our country to the European Union if this question is being put within the framework of this recovery plan.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u236	For an intervention, Mr André Ventura, of the Arrival, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u237	Mr President, Prime Minister : First of all, and in preparation for what will be one of the most important European Councils in history, it was important to know, as already mentioned, what will be the amendments and Portugal's position on tax defence, because we all know - in fact, just read a little about what is going on in Germany, either in Holland or in other Member States - that the current rules on tax matters may be changed and that the rule of unanimity may be at issue. What is the position of the Portuguese Parliament? I also believe that this is, here in Parliament, the time to make a vehement condemnation of what Spain has done in relation to the reopening of borders with Portugal, announcing a date unilaterally, without consulting the Portuguese Government. That must deserve your condemnation here in this House. I shall finish, because the time I have is not very long, addressing a matter that concerns me, Prime Minister. And without changing the leaves, I wanted to tell you the following:... [[Laughs from the PAN deputy Cristina Rodrigues.]] Mr Prime Minister, several European countries have opened up borders, but some continue not to accept Portuguese tourists. This should be deserved by the Portuguese Government for a forward-looking position of repudiation. in this group are countries such as Cyprus or Bulgaria. I didn't even want to believe in hearing that Bulgaria doesn't allow entry to Portuguese tourists! Sounds like a joke! In fact, they are saying that the Portuguese cannot come in, and your Government, Prime Minister, is pleased with this! We need a firm position to say that if they don't want Portuguese tourists in their territory, we don't want tourists from them in our territory either! And we need to say more: Portugal and the Portuguese economy do not play or play political games, because what has happened with Lithuania, Cyprus, Slovakia and other countries of the European Union is that they play with the Portuguese, and what belongs to one government, whether it is socialist or any other color, it is to put those states in order and say that in Portugal this kind of political game with our nation will not be admissible!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u238	For an intervention, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u239	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister : At the European Council tomorrow and after tomorrow we will not only talk about the multiannual financial framework, nor about the Recovery Fund. We will also talk about other things, such as what will happen on Monday next, at a video summit between the European Commission and China. And it is not by any chance that the European Commission, in view of this video summit, has already put forward proposals today to prevent companies benefiting from subsidies from foreign States, such as the Chinese State, from having unfair advantages in the single market and in applications for Community funds. Therefore, the European Commission has done what I suggested weeks ago in this Parliament, and what Mr Prime Minister has tried to escape, which is to establish and take advantage of this post-pandemic phase to have a new economic relationship with China and to lay the foundations for this new phase of collaboration. I have not yet heard from the Portuguese Government and the Prime Minister any position on this, so I would like to know whether or not the Government is following the concerns of the European Commission in this matter and whether this is going to be raised at the European Council tomorrow. Perhaps it does not follow the concerns exactly the same way, because we know that the Portuguese Government, the PS government, loves very much the companies that are very close to the state. And this problem will also be put in Portugal shortly, because due to the Recovery Fund, and also in accordance with the words of Minister Siza Vieira, we will have « more resources in Portugal in the coming years than we have ever had ». So the question begins to be important: with what criteria will the government distribute this money? Will it do so through the Development Bank as a result of the merger of entities that have no experience in the distribution of such funds? What levels of viability and profitability will the government require for projects at European and national level? Finally, how will it prevent the distribution of European money to more ‘friendly’ companies and non-productive investments, as has happened with previous socialist governments, damaging the country's economy and our image as a worthy investment destination?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u240	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u241	In conclusion, Mr President, asking the Prime Minister whether he will ultimately be the firm voice in defending the interests of Portugal within the European Union, either in terms of geopolitics or in terms of transparency in the financing of the resumption.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u242	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the conclusion of the debate, and Mr President-in-Office Antonio Costa has the floor. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u243	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, and as regards expectations for the next European Council, they are obvious. Having already been marked one for the beginning of July and admitted a second still in July, it is clear that this Council will not decide anything. What is going to happen in this Council? Well, I believe that the generality of countries will do something to contribute to delay the decision, that is, each one will radicalize their positions to mark territory. What Portugal will do is not draw red lines, but it is signaling green ways, so that there will be an agreement as soon as possible. And that agreement is possible and necessary. I wonder if we have a bazouca and whether the amount of funding is sufficient. We all have a good idea that the crisis we are facing is an astronomical dimension, but we must look at all the instruments we have. And we have, of course, the next multiannual financial framework, which has EUR 1100 million. A new recovery fund of 750 billion is created on this multiannual financial framework for the next seven years. And it must be borne in mind that three lines of financing have still been created, which have already been approved within the framework of the Eurogroup, chaired by Mário Centeno, which create more 540 billion security financing, and that the European Central Bank has a programme which, in the first phase, had 750 billion, which now added more than 600 billion, which represents 1 billion and 300 billion. This means that, as a whole of this package, we actually have a very significant reinforcement. If it's the ideal... well, the ideal, in political life, does not exist at national level or at European level. That doesn't exist! But it is impossible to look at these numbers and not recognize that this is not a « strike », that is not a « hunter », that is a « bazouca ». If we discount all financial instruments, all loan-based lines and look exclusively at the "subsidies" dimension, see that in our case alone this means a reinforcement of 37, 9 % relative to the current financial framework. So in the coming years we will have a huge responsibility, which is for all of us and that is that at the same time we must complete the implementation of the current Portugal 2020, we must start the implementation of 2030 and we still have this recovery programme, which adds to all this and which, only in grants, if approved in these terms, will provide more than EUR 15 billion for Portugal, apart from what we can have access through loans. This is an enormous responsibility for all of us, it is a unique opportunity, and if we waste energies that are not to focus on economic recovery, or if we waste these resources, no one can forgive us. So when you ask what the government is going to do, what I can tell you is that what the government is going to do is what I have called for. We must be able to build a great national project around this programme, because it is not a programme of this government, it must be a Portugal programme for all Portuguese, and this concerns all of us. Members and not just the government. If you want me to say only about the government, we are here for that, but we want, and we think it is useful, that it is a programme not of the government, but of the country as a whole. If we look carefully at the set of issues that blocked the agreement on the multiannual financial framework, we must recognise that the Commission proposal goes beyond that problem. The first blockage issue was whether national contributions should be 1 % of gross national income of 1, 07 %, 1, 11 % or 1, 2 %. at present, with the Commission's proposal to increase its own resources, what we are going to have is a budget that does not have 1 %, 07 %, 1 %, 11 % or 1 %, 2 %, but 2 % of what is the European Union's gross national income. And the mechanism is created through a joint debt issue by the European Union. Well, debt, like all debts, has to be paid. How is that debt paid? The European Commission clearly says that there are two ways to pay: or we create our own resources — if you want European taxes — to finance the payment of this debt at 30 years, and from 2028 onwards, or then the Member States, in their national contributions, will have to take into account that there is this new charge to pay, over 30 years, also from 2028 onwards. Therefore, the question that is raised here is that by today until 2028 States are either unable or unable to understand themselves. And on European taxes, for those who speak in sovereignty, let us be clear: either there is a European tax to tax the digital economy or there is no national sovereignty to tax the digital economy;... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... or there is a European tax to tax financial transactions or there is no national sovereignty to tax financial transactions. And that doesn't mean that we don't have to have complex because we're small, because the truth is that the big states that created "Google fees" and fees with various names for the digital economy there created, but not one of them is applying,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u244	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u245	... because there are no conditions for applying them effectively at the borders of each State.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u246	What about Europe? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u247	So here, the question is not whether or not there is sovereignty, the question is whether these activities are exempt from taxation or whether we find a fair and effective way of being taxed, because they are making unfair competition to companies that work and pay taxes in each of the states where they are based. [[P.S.'s applause.]] On the one hand, the countries, like Portugal, said that we could not accept cuts in cohesion or in the second pillar of the common agricultural policy and what we see in this Commission proposal is the replacement of the current amount of financing either of cohesion policy or of the second pillar of the CAP; on the other hand, the countries that said "we do not accept, because we do not accept the phasing out and the future disappearance of the fights to which we have the right". If I wonder if the fights are fair, I must say no, I think they are absolutely unfair, but if they are a possible compromise to, on the other hand, maintain the levels of cohesion financing and unlock this agreement, I think it is worth it. It is that there is one thing that is very clear: if each one sits around that table with his red lines, there may be the hours that we have that we will never leave there with a multi-annual financial framework or an approved recovery program, because each one obviously has its own interests. And if we want to defend our own, we must also understand and accept that which is the interests of others. That is why, when they ask me whether the balance between grants and loans is reasonable, what I say is that, obviously, I would prefer it to be all subsidies and that there were no loans.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u248	Grants that are actually owed!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u249	But I think that a Commission proposal which says that two thirds are grants and only one third of them are loans has a reasonable balance and it is worth accepting - so as not to delay the progress and conclusion of an agreement on this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u250	Would you like to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u251	We will probably have a different position than the other states. My position in the Council will not be to draw red lines, I will not want to be the symmetric of frugals, I will simply want to do what seems reasonable to me at the time we arrived, which is to say that the Commission's proposal is a fair balance between the positions of the 27, that it is urgent that it be adopted and that if it is not adopted in this Council,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u252	You have to finish, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u253	...as I believe it will not be, it should be approved immediately at the beginning of the German Presidency. Allow me, Mr President, one last word for Mrs Isabel Meireles. I know that austerity has been so painful that all pain seems to be austerity, but the truth is, when you beat the cinnamon on a table, for example, we suffer pain and it is not austerity. And this crisis is causing a deep pain! It's causing deep pain in people who are losing income, it's causing deep pain in people who are losing jobs, it's causing deep pain in companies that are closed, it's causing deep pain in companies that are failing, it's causing deep pain in companies that are having difficulty finding markets...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u254	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u255	But none of these pain situations result from austerity. Austerity would mean going, now, adding pain to pain, cutting income or making a brutal increase in taxes. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u256	Well, we didn't raise taxes or cut income, on the contrary,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u257	You want to finish, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u258	... we support incomes and give incentives to support companies and families, so that we will win and overcome together this painful phase that we are living. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u259	Mrs. Members, we have thus concluded the preparatory debate of the European Council and on the various instruments of economic governance of the European Union. I will now give Mr Nelson Peralta the floor to give us some information. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u260	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I announce that Mr. João Azevedo Castro, of the Socialist Party, elected by the electoral circle of the Azores, was present in this plenary session through videoconferencing.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-17.u261	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have come to the end of our work today. The next plenary session will be held tomorrow at 3 p.m. and will have a agenda with several points of debate. Firstly, we will hold a current debate required by the PSD on the theme « Pedrogão Grande, three years later ». Secondly, we will examine Parliamentary Inquiry No 3 / XIV / 1. a ( CH) — Establishment of a parliamentary committee of inquiry to the procedures for the acquisition of personal protective equipment in the context of the fight against COVID-19. Thirdly, we will appreciate Petition No 641 / XIII / 4. a ( Platform « For the Construction of the Feijó Health Centre » ) — For the construction of the Feijó health centre, in conjunction with Resolution Projects Nos 478 / XIV / 1. a (BE) — Construction of a health center in Feijó, 485 / XIV / 1. a (PEV) — By building health center in Feijó — Almada, and 487 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recommends to the Government the construction of the health centre in Feijó, municipality of Almada, Setúbal district. We shall also proceed to the assessment of Petition No 651 / XIII / 4. a ( José Carlos Correia et al.) — Nursing career (for just valorization and dignity due to the proper transition of nurses), together with Law Projects Nos 405 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Alter the Decree-Law No. 71 / 2019 of May 27, in order to ensure a fairer transition to the category of specialist nurse by nurses who have performed or perform leadership or head office, 407 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Identification of nursing career ( first amendment to Decree-Law No 71 / 2019 of 27 May, third amendment to Decree-Law No 247 / 2009 of 22 September, and third amendment to Decree-Law No 248 / 2009 of 22 September ), and 447 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Alter the regime of the special nursing career, as well as the nursing career regime in public business entities and health partnerships ( third amendment to Decree-Law No. 247 / 2009 of 22 September 2009 and third amendment to Decree-Law No. 248 / 2009 of 22 September), in general, and with Draft Resolution No. 516 / XIV / 1. a (PA) — For the valorization and dignity of nurses in Portugal. Finally, we will appreciate Petition No 653 / XIII / 4. a ( Portuguese Nurses' Union) — Disengagement of progressions - by just counting points to all nurses, along with Bills Nos 403 / XIV / 1. a (BE) — Change the regime of the special nursing career, in order to ensure pay positions and career progressions more fair and consistent with the recognition that nursing professionals deserve, and 406 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Consideration of all points for the purposes of defrosting careers. We are thus at the end of our work. I wish you all very good afternoon. See you tomorrow. The session is closed. [[It was 19 hours and 29 minutes.]]
