ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists. Let us begin our plenary session. [[It was 15 hours and 7 minutes.]] Let's start with a set of ads, which will be made by our Secretary of Table Maria da Luz Rosinha with the efficiency that everyone recognizes. Please, Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President, and very late to all. I begin by making an announcement that should have been made at yesterday's session — indeed, it is the first time that, following the amendments made to the operation of the Assembly of the Republic — but for obvious reasons, it was not the record of the Members. Members who were present by video conference. I therefore give an account of the presence of PS Members Marta Freitas and Olavo Câmara and PSD Members Sara Madruga da Costa and Sergio Marques, elected by the Autonomous Region of Madeira, and the PSD Member António Ventura, elected by the Autonomous Region of the Azores. I'm going through making the usual ads now. They have entered the Bureau and have been admitted to a number of legislative initiatives. First, I refer to Parliamentary Assessments Nos 16 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Concerning Decree-Law No. 23 / 2020 of 22 May, which lays down the rules for the conclusion of health management partnership contracts, and 17 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Concerning Decree-Law No 20 - F / 2020 of 12 May establishing an exceptional and temporary scheme for insurance contracts. Law No. 398 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Allocation of compensation in addition to pay supplements for work performed under risk, penosity and insanity conditions ( amendment to Law No 35 / 2014 of 20 June 2014 — General Public Works Act ), which falls to 13. the Commission, in connection with 10. the Commission, 399 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Application of the risk, penosity and insanity supplement ( amendment to Law No 35 / 2014 of 20 June 2014 — General Labour Act in Public Functions ), which falls to 13. the Commission, in connection with 10. the Commission, 400 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Provide the consumer with information on the purchase price to the producer or fisher of foodstuffs, which falls to 7. the Commission, 401 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Regulates the supplements of the compensations and other royalties of risk, pesosity and insanity ( sixteenth amendment of the General Law on Public Works ), which falls to 13. the Commission, in connection with 10. the Commission, 402 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Amends Law No 89 / 99 of 5 July, which defines the conditions for access and exercise of the performance of the Gestive Language Interpreter activity, which falls to 10. the Commission, 403 / XIV / 1. a (BE) — Change the regime of the special nursing career, in order to ensure pay positions and career progressions more fair and consistent with the recognition that nursing professionals deserve, which goes down to 13. the Commission, in connection with 9. the Commission, 404 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Measures to enhance and protect health professionals, which falls to 13. the Commission, in connection with 9. the Commission, 405 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Alter the Decree-Law No. 71 / 2019 of 27 May, in order to ensure a fairer transition to the category of specialist nurse by nurses who have performed or perform leadership or head office, which falls to 13. the Commission, in connection with 9. the Commission, 406 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Consideration of all points for the purposes of defrosting careers, which goes down to 13. the Commission, and 407 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Identification of nursing career ( first amendment to Decree-Law No 71 / 2019 of 27 May, third amendment to Decree-Law No 247 / 2009 of 22 September, and third amendment to Decree-Law No 248 / 2009 of 22 September ), which falls to 13. the Commission, in connection with 9. the Commission. Resolution Nos 475 / XIV / 1 have also been added to the Bureau. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government adopt measures with a view to the support of producers of Cova da Beira, Cova da Beira, Castelo Branco, Penajóia, Lamego, Resende, Viseu, and São Julian cherja, Portalegre district, taking into account the breakdowns in production, which decreases to 7. the Commission, 476 / XIV / 1. a ( Nsc. ) — Recommends that the Government increase the supply of public transport and implement an urgent plan to stimulate active mobility, which falls to 11. the Commission, 477 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — By drawing up and fixing a minimum price to be paid to the producer and by combating unfair practices in commercial relations between the large distribution and food suppliers, which falls to 7. the Commission, 478 / XIV / 1. a (BE) — Construction of a health center in Feijó, 479 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Establishment of a possible committee for monitoring and evaluating the effectiveness, budgetary impact and transparency of the response and recovery measures of the health, economic and social crisis caused by COVID-19, 480 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government move forward with urgent work at IC2 — Oliveira de Azemés — that they definitely resolve the sinality of that structural route to the municipality of Oliveira de Azemés, 481 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends that the Government review the Single Remuneration Table with a view to ensuring levels of proportionality, which falls to 13. the Commission, 482 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Promotes equality and values the wages of the workers of the IPSS, which goes down to 10. the Commission, 483 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends to the Government the update of the productivity tables and prices of the crop insurance, which falls to 7. the Commission, 484 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends that the Government correct the career progression mechanisms of the Armed Forces, maritime police and Republican National Guard professionals, which falls to 3. the Commission, 485 / XIV / 1. a (PEV) — By building health center in Feijó, Almada, 486 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen the support and relaunch of tourism in Portugal in the context of the consequences of the COVID-19 pandemic, which falls to 6. the Commission, 487 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recommends to the Government the construction of the health centre in Feijó, municipality of Almada, Setúbal district, 488 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Measures to combat abandonment in higher education following the COVID-19 pandemic, which drops to 8. the Commission, 489 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — For the urgent negotiation of the Single Public Administration Compensation Table with a view to ensuring its proportionality, 490 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government recommend the necessary conditions for the functioning of higher education and research at this stage of the epidemiological outbreak, which falls to the 8th Commission, 491 / XIV / 1. a ( PAR) — Assessment of the implementation of the state of emergency declared by the Decree of the President of the Republic No 14 -A / 2020 of 18 March, 492 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Reinforcement of rail transport to ensure safety conditions, which falls to 4. the Commission, 493 / XIV / 1. a ( Nsc. ) — Recommends emergency support to the Government to strengthen social action and student housing in higher education in the context of the current pandemic crisis caused by the SARS-CoV-2 virus, which drops to 8. the Commission, 494 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Free distribution of menstrual health products, which falls to 9. the Commission, 495 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Measures for early diagnosis and treatment of endometriosis, which goes down to 9. the Commission, and 496 / XIV / 1. a ( Nsc. ) — Action plan for the drastic reduction of waste, which falls to 11. the Commission. I'm done, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u3	Thank you very much, Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha, for this, one more effort you have made. Before initiating the debate of the Appeal to Government No 3 / XIV / 1. a, information that are already registered, for quorum purposes, 150 Members, so the different parliamentary benches may provide in the required objective, approved and consensualized sense. I shall now begin the debate of the Interpellation to the Government No 3 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Responses from the social state to the pandemic caused by the SARS-CoV-2 virus. At the opening of the debate, Mrs Ana Catarina Mendes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Portugal has been exemplary in responding to the greatest challenge we have had in recent decades. The response of the Portuguese to the health crisis has been an example of individual and collective responsibility that will never be too high, as has also been absolutely exemplary — and I would like to welcome here — the climate of institutional cooperation between the Assembly of the Republic, the Government and the Presidency of the Republic. This is a fact that distinguishes us as a country and makes us an example that everyone should be proud of. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the government's prompt response to the pandemic was crucial to, in the first phase, do everything to save lives, ensuring that no one would cease to have access to the Service. National Health Care ( SNS ), while protecting employment and strengthening social benefits or creating new benefits to help the most vulnerable was a reality. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The public school responded to the demands of the moment and adapted itself, ensuring that our children and our young people keep their classes. However, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the climate of loyal cooperation among all of us does not prevent us from accentuated our differences, because they exist and do not disappear with the crisis. To place national interest above all is also to preserve our democracy, which has never been suspended in time of emergency. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is therefore time for us socialists to say in front of all, with serenity, that one of the lessons we can learn from recent times is that we absolutely need to have a strong social state to guarantee all a dignified, decent and just life. Those who have always devalued the state and the role of the social state in recent years have shown here how wrong they were. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The reality has again demonstrated, for those who had doubts, how necessary a strong social state is...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u5	Very fat!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u6	...to guarantee decent living conditions for all. to those who defend a minimal state, socialists respond with a state of social welfare, with strong public services that respond in normal and even more crisis situations. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We have therefore taken the initiative to make this request to the Government on the response of the social state to this pandemic so that we can actually evaluate the responses given in the emergency situation and the responses projected at the next stabilisation and recovery phases. It was the existence of a social state and not a welfare state that allowed, from then on, the health response to the pandemic through the mobilization of the National Health Service, a competent, solidarity and equality response, in which no one stayed behind for economic reasons. Before the pandemic, our commitment to strengthening investment in the National Health Service was under way. We were right about the priority, which has not disappeared before, it has been reinforced. [[P.S.'s applause.]] those who devalue the National Health Service, those who defended their privatization or their dismantling, those who consciously impoverished it in the years of the previous crisis to open the way to an old and always misleading idea of freedom of choice, this is the time to reflect on whether the alternative they proposed would have responded to this crisis. No, I didn't answer! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u7	That's extraordinary! This freedom thing is a mess!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u8	In less than three months, the National Health Service organized a firm and determined response, a response to the pandemic through our public health system, primary health care, hospital health care and the medical emergency system, never neglecting the urgent and priority situations of people who needed to use the services. The Government has thus ensured the implementation of a set of measures that have allowed and allow effective prevention of the proliferation of recorded cases of COVID-19 infection. Just as an example, I refer to the effort of the availability of individual protective equipment, the development of a computer monitoring tool and also the strengthening and reconfiguration of the Health Line 24 or, moreover, the laboratory capacity—which has never been thought possible! — to pass an average of 55 tests per day to 6000 tests per day. We were right when, throughout the previous legislation, we invested in the National Health Service with more financial resources and more health professionals. We were right when we reinforced SNS's funds in the 2020 budget, we were right again when we reinforced SNS in time of pandemic. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Counting the pandemic has inevitably led to an economic and social crisis. In Portugal, it was once again the social state which, in particular through our public social protection system, allowed us to mitigate the effects on employment and on the incomes that this crisis caused in businesses and families. It was this response, assured by thousands of tireless public servants in administrative services so unfairly devalued by so many, that it allowed to implement measures in record time and process support that otherwise would never have arrived to their recipients. I would therefore like to point out that in this plan at the very first moment, even before the World Health Organization considered the disease as a pandemic and five days after the first case confirmed in Portugal appeared, the Government launched a programme of measures to mitigate the negative impact that the pandemic could have. An exceptional and temporary scheme of simplified layoff was created, where social security ensures the majority of worker's remuneration, in addition to other support, such as an extraordinary financial incentive per worker to support the normalization of the company's activities or an extraordinary training plan to strengthen the skills of workers. From the outset, the urgent need to respond to situations of more pressing social disprotection was assumed, and so the social complement for the elderly, the social income for inclusion and, moreover, the social allowance for unemployment was strengthened. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We were certain when, in the previous legislation, we strengthened the sustainability of social security with the increase in tax revenue, the strengthening of the Fund for Financial Stabilization of Social Security and the diversification of sources of funding to respond to the most vulnerable, those who have worked their entire lives, the younger and the less young who have entered the labour market. All are guaranteed social protection because it is the construction and basis of a decent and supportive society. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Those who have defended the privatization of social security are the same as those who today claim an answer from public social security in this House. Let us ask them: if social security had been privatized, how would Portuguese and Portuguese have been left in this pandemic? [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: How the importance of public school has gained value these days. In less than three months, the public school has adapted. With the suspension of all educational and non-personal activities, the schools did not close, the meals continued to be served, the children of essential professionals continued to be welcomed, teachers, students, families and other agents of the educational system adapted extraordinarily to a new reality, with distance teaching. Therefore, education professionals are also happy about the work they have developed. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And we were right when, in the previous legislature, we again wagered in public school, in social school, in teacher training, in the binding of more than 7000 teachers, in the hiring of more employees. Imagine, ladies and gentlemen. Members, as it would be in this pandemic, the absence of public school. [[The CDS-PP Member's laughs João Pinho de Almeida.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It was only possible to respond, in emergency time, with the sense of urgency required because the social state and the state in general were there. It didn't all start now and it didn't have to be invented now. And we have no doubt: a social state capable of responding to the emergency must be strong in times of economic normality, but also, above all, in times of crisis. The path of recovery, re-evaluation and re-qualification of the State, especially the social state, must continue, in the crisis, after the crisis and despite the crisis. In the recent past, for the most noisy of this House, the response to the crisis was to degrade the state and public services, impoverish the Portuguese and the Country. The response of cuts and austerity proved to be wrong and cannot be repeated!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u9	I would ask you to conclude, Mrs Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u10	I'm done now, Mr. President. We want to have public capacity to respond to the crisis because we want to have a post-crisis future, and that is why other choices are required. [[PSD, CDS-PP and CH protests.]] The crisis stressed the need for choices on how best to organize our work, on the qualification of Portuguese and how we will be able to requalify ourselves in public school.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u11	Thank you very much, Mrs. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u12	I'm done now, Mr. President. I would just like to say the following: we started this journey in 2015 and in the PS Parliamentary Group we will not deviate from a path that continues to strengthen the social state because it has proved to be absolutely essential and vital for the lives of the Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u13	at this stage of the debate, I now give the floor to Mrs. Minister of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security, Ana Mendes Godinho, whom I use to greet. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues of government : We live very demanding times for all of us. No one was ready for this situation. The economic and social impacts of the pandemic caused by COVID-19 have all tested: people, businesses, families, the state, but, through mobilization and collective effort, we have all been able to respond, with the social state, to demonstrate the importance of strong public systems in health, social protection and education. It was necessary to create extraordinary answers to the extraordinary situations we have experienced — and I fear - they have been created — and the social state has shown to be the answer. Portugal has also been cited as an example of the countries which have put on the ground more quickly to combat, effectively, the pandemic and its consequences. We managed to act quickly and effectively: at the health level, the first line responded quickly and capacity in the containment of the epidemic, in the prevention and treatment of those who contracted the virus; at the level of social protection, with the creation and extraordinary operationalization of exceptional measures to support the maintenance of jobs, workers, families, businesses and the most vulnerable people. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In two months, with the extraordinary measures we have created, we have already covered 1 million and 200,000 workers with paid support and 140 000 companies, of a total value of EUR 620 million. In two months, the following extraordinary support measures were set up to respond to the most unexpected situations: 100 % allowance for prophylactic isolation to ensure that workers could stay at home without loss of income, with 51 000 workers covered; simplified layoff, which has so far protected 804 000 jobs in 99 500 companies, with support paid in the amount of EUR 470 million; extraordinary support to families, in conjunction with education, to ensure that they could continue to accompany children when schools had to suspend educational and non-permanent activities; support already covered 160 000 self-employed; support already covered 14 000 managers; automatic extension of the minimum social benefits, which has already covered more than 40,000 people, so that at this stage no one would stay behind or unprotected;... [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u15	... support for workers who are in the formal economy so that they enter the system of collective social protection and do not remain without any kind of protection. It has been moments of complete delivery by all those who work in the social state and who ensure response to all those who are in need of it. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I leave a word of appreciation and recognition for the work that everyone is doing and which, I know, will continue to do. With all the difficulties of implementing this set of new extraordinary measures, social security has shown that it is she who responds to whom she needs, when someone needs it. [[P.S.'s applause.]] At the same time, we have put on the ground concrete measures to protect the most vulnerable populations both physically and economically from the point of view of economic fragility. It was in this context that, in a great articulation with health and the social sector, together, we managed to implement an integrated programme of prevention in the homes: we managed to test the workers of the 2500 homes in Portugal thanks to a single movement of mobilization of universities and polytechnics, which have put themselves at the service of the needs of the community to protect those who needed; we created rear spaces; we together conducted more than 110,000 tests for the workers of the homes and day care centres; we created a measure to support the strengthening of human resources in the social responses, which has so far put 4300 people working in the institutions, with obvious results in the incidence rate of the disease in the people living in the homes, much lower than in the remaining European countries. We have worked together with health for the reopening of day care centres, with clear guidelines and rules to ensure the safe recovery. We have doubled the response capacity in the food programme from 60 000 to 120 000 people. We launched the signaling line of children at risk, as a way of mitigating the difficulty of signaling children who no longer have the present school. Together with education, we have developed a new form of identification of risk situations in a distance learning context and are preparing training for teachers to signal children at risk in this distance teaching context, which will start in June. To ensure an individualised response to each person, we decided this week to extend Line 144 to respond individually, in terms of social action, to whom it needs,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u16	Supported!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u17	...to know exactly what means it has at its disposal, being from today also available to those who need this type of answers. Also supporting those who were in a more fragile situation before the pandemic, such as homeless people, we guarantee, together with the authorities, the opening of reception spaces — 21, throughout the national territory — to accommodate more than 400 people. Stabilized this emergency phase, we are implementing housing responses — housing first and other models — with capacity for about 580 people. This action and this reaction have only been possible thanks to the work articulated with everyone: among the key areas that are the pillars of the social state — health, social protection and education; in ongoing dialogue with all parties and the Assembly of the Republic; with the social partners; with the partners of the social sector; with the authorities; with all those who have been part of this collective effort of response to the moment we are living, i.e., people, workers, families and businesses. A strong social state is based on this dialogue, a balance of interests and collective sharing of responsibilities. We have therefore also strengthened the role of the Working Conditions Authority ( ACT ) and its resources. In the last month alone, we strengthened ACT with more than 188 labour inspectors. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It now has 486 inspectors in office, the highest number since the Working Conditions Authority was set up, having had the capacity to carry out 5500 inspections in the last month, covering 150 000 workers. The social state has shown how indispensable it is and must be stronger and more robust, with the ability to be more and more inclusive. This crisis has one day interrupted a sustained journey in the economy, employment and social security. And it is also thanks to this journey that we have been able to build and walk this path and that today we are in a position to respond better to this crisis. That is the way we want to resume, with the ambition of responding together to the new challenges ahead and ensuring that the path we choose and walk and the options we make are those that respond to the need to have a more just, more inclusive, less unequal society with the ability to give equal opportunities to all. Therefore, we also decided to move forward with the Green Paper on the Future of Work, which includes this ability to look at new forms of work that have been evident in the last two months and to ensure that we have models that the new generations are part of, not being outside the social protection system. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We all realize, in the last two months, that social security is our collective instrument of response, it is an instrument and an investment of solidarity response and that it has to have the capacity to be more inclusive and with greater responsiveness. We will clearly have economic and social impacts that will be felt and that we need to have more and more mechanisms to protect employment, to support businesses, to support social groups more exposed to the crisis and to respond to those who have lost income. Also in this context, Europe's response under the European Commission Recovery Fund, known yesterday, has a decisive role in future policies and European cohesion around the essential pillar, the social pillar. It is in this sense that we are working on the Economic and Social Stabilization Programme, a cross-sectional programme, with the participation of all, in order to deepen the responses of the social state, to deepen the responses to each family, to each worker and to each company. The social state represents exactly this collective and solidarityal response capacity for all. And it was he who answered, eliminating any doubts and discussions about their privatization.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u18	I would ask you to conclude, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u19	At this time, the mobilization of all to strengthen the social state in its various dimensions, ensuring that it is the DNA(deoxyribonucleic acid) that unites us. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u20	Let's move on to the stage of the debate. Two Mrs were registered. Members to request clarification from Mrs Ana Catarina Mendonça Mendes, to whom the honourable Member, according to the Bureau, will reply together. To this end, you have the floor, first of all, Mr Rui Cristina Mendes, of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u21	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Ana Catarina Mendes, I have just heard of referring the success of the SNS to the fight against this pandemic. It seems really over-exaggerated to me. OBarometer of Social Inclusions last February indicated more than 1500 hospital beds of the National Health Service occupied by people with high medical status, a worrying increase compared to 2019, in which this number was less than 1000. I don't think it's a cause for contentment. At the beginning of this month, 810 patients with COVID-19 were hospitalized in SNS hospitals, 147 of them without clinical justification. This reality is inhuman to people, penalizes hospital services and is a waste of public resources. Worse, it is a reality that is getting worse every year. So I ask you, if you can answer me, what concrete measures the government will take to reduce these social hospitalizations in SNS hospitals. [[Protests by BE Mésos Ferreira.]] During the COVID-19 pandemic, Portuguese hit the windows, thanking health professionals. Neither did the government commend the SNS professionals who have been in the front line of the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic. The truth is that these praises are of little value if they are not accompanied by effective recognition. As you know, the PSD presented a draft resolution recommending that these professionals be awarded a single performance premium equivalent to 50 % of their monthly base remuneration. This recognition, by its unrepeatable nature, does not compare with the premiums paid by the Government to employees of the Tax Authority and social security for the compulsory collection of debts to the State. [[Protests by PS MP Maria Antonio Almeida Santos.]] The question is whether the government will have the courage to recognize its professionals, as the Ministries of Finance and Social Security do, or whether, on the contrary, it will continue to unjustify those who save lives for those who charge debts. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u22	You now have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u23	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Ana Catarina Mendonça Mendes, I do not know if there is an ongoing PS competition to see who has the orthodox speech of purer socialist propaganda. But if there is, the intervention you did here will lead you to some brave points. during his intervention, he spoke of public school, public health, public social security, and still had time to enjoy the freedom of choice. [[PS protests.]] We learned that for the Socialist Party, people can choose, with their money, where they are treated and where they are educated and who they are treated with reform is a smaller thing, when not counterproductive. Therefore, making equivalent social state to public services exclusively provided by the State is pure socialist orthodox propaganda,... [[PS protests.]] ... because there are many examples for this civilized and democratic world outside that there are excellent public services that are not exclusively provided by the State. Having said that, I ask you two quick questions. Mrs. SNS said the SNS treated COVID very well. I won't disagree, I'll agree. [[PS protests.]] What's the surprise? Oh, my God! But how did he do it? With a moratorium on other health problems in the country. Until the end of April—and we are almost at the end of May— there were 2, 8 million consultations postponed, 51 000 surgeries postponed. And it's been four weeks now—I have a good idea what's going on now! My first question, Mrs Deputy, is this: do you think we will not have a public health crisis hidden behind the public health crisis of COVID? My second question, also with regard to the waiting lists, Mrs SNS, is to support the proposal of the Liberal Initiative to extend the SIGIC (Integrated System of Management of Inscriptions for Surgery) and the SNS (Integrated System of Management of User Access to the National Health Service) so that consultations and surgeries can also be done in private...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u24	That's what's missing!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u25	...and not only in the national health system, to recover consultations and surgeries, or will you tell people who don't go to private and who wait another one or two years? [[PS protests.]] Regarding mortality, they may already be forgotten, but one month ago, the National School of Public Health published a study in which it already detected, with data until April 14, that there were six hundred and such dead who were not explained by the COVID and were the most in relation to the past. Do we have a second public health crisis or not? The data were on April 14 and there's been six weeks. Can the PS ensure that it is dealing with the matter, so as to ensure that behind this there is not a second public health crisis? It is that of propaganda, Mrs Deputies, we are tired and, with that, it will not solve any of these problems.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u26	In reply, Mrs Ana Catarina Mendes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u27	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for your questions. Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, I reply very easily: we are in the opposite fields, from an ideological point of view. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[IL and CH protests.]] Here, in this bench, we defend the National Health Service and its reinforcement. But I have an explanation to give you. Do you know why you also increased the number of late surgeries? One of the reasons was because the privates decided not to...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u28	Liar!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u29	...and terminate your contracts with the State. [[P.S.'s applause.]] So, honourable Member, not by ranking, not because you are concerned about my popularity, but because I am, we are all worried about the National Health Service because we want a quality SNS for all Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. Rui Cristina Mendes, I find it extraordinary that today you are very concerned about the National Health Service. I would like to have listened to him in the days of austerity, in which you went after the National Health Service. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u30	Always the same speech!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u31	It is that if this pandemic, which nobody was expecting, had happened when you were ruling, I am absolutely convinced that the National Health Service would not have given the answer you gave. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] And that is why we are here, to defend the National Health Service, to defend the benefits for all. And, yes, Mrs. Members, as much as it costs, a strong social state is a social state that makes a decent society,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u32	Decent? It depends on the goals!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u33	... that treats people with dignity and that, above all, leaves no one behind, and that is our flag. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u34	We now turn to questions to the Government, starting with Mrs Maria Begonha of the PS Parliamentary Group. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u35	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I address my question to the Minister for Labour, Solidarity and Social Security, complimenting the other members of the Government. We live in a unique and exceptional crisis in this period of global pandemic. We know that it affects everything and everyone, but, as in all other crises, in societies with inequalities, there are variables that do not change: they are the least qualified workers affected; they have the least incomes they suffer; and they are the same ones that are again the most affected in the world of work, the younger ones, who are also the most precarious and the most unprotected. The same generation that was confronted in 2011 with the difficulty of entering the labour market, with forced emigration, with the limitation of its course, is again confronted with the prospect of unemployment. They are exactly the same ones sacrificed, the ones most affected by the working world of green receipts, temporary work, term contracts, the same ones that, already in the past, were forced to accept any work, any salary and any place. By 2015, this was the country of thousands of young people who did not work or study and for whom we had to find answers. It has been a mark of the PS governments to recover not only income but also better jobs, not to let precariousness define the labor relations of an entire generation. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u36	in this generation are those who live for the second time the shock of a crisis, in a very short space of time, but also those who want to enter the labour market for the first time and who have great chances of not achieving it. In fact, Mrs. Minister, they have great chances of not getting through without the help and encouragement of the State. That is why it is these hundreds of thousands of young people who need to know that there is a great difference in this crisis not only in its origin but also in the response of a strong social state, with measures and support, of which many have already benefited in this time of crisis. But in addition to these support, we look to the future and the horizon, knowing that we refuse the view that the future is just the alternative between a spiral of precariousness or unemployment. And the only decent and fair path for young people is precisely to strengthen now, and in time, these answers, so that they know, unequivocally, that we will do everything for their future, to achieve themselves personally and professionally. We must bet on measures to support and create jobs, encourage recruitment, new training opportunities for returning to the labour market, for the first professional experience. It was the International Labour Organisation ( ILO ) that said in its pandemic report yesterday that 1 in 6 young people lost their jobs, which are young people, along with women, the most affected by this crisis, in loss of income, in loss of work. Therefore, Mrs Minister, knowing that young people are the most affected, I ask you, of course, to agree with the need for targeted youth responses, at the level of active employment policies, new guarantees and measures to mitigate the worsening phase of unemployment in which we are going to enter, placing Portuguese youth at the centre of priorities. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u37	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the Bureau has been informed that the Minister will jointly respond to groups of five. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr José Soeiro, from the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, now has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u38	Mr President, Minister for Labour, Solidarity and Social Security, there are 804 000 workers in layoff. We are in favour of the job protection effort, but we cannot have more than 800 000 people living with the cut of one third of the salary until December.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u39	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u40	I ask you, therefore, whether it is available to return this cut to one third of the salary, ensuring that workers who have suspended the contract maintain the value of their salary, and whether it is available for the rules of support to companies in difficulty, and that we defend, are not confused with public money financing to profitable multinationals, i.e. if, in particular, within these economic support mechanisms, it is possible to require counterbalances of decency to companies that are supported and that must be prevented from firing and distributing dividends, as has happened. In particular, I would like to ask the Minister whether the undertakings which have ruled out precarious workers, ending contracts or disbursing intermediate workers, will be excluded from the long-lost support which is currently being regulated and whether there is a guarantee that it is the State budget and not the discount of the workers who will finance these measures. Secondly, we need to protect those who have already lost their jobs, and more than half of the nearly 400 000 unemployed who are registered have no access to unemployment benefit. The Government has agreed to reduce the guarantee period by half to access the social unemployment allowance. I ask you, Minister, whether you are available not only to do the same with regard to unemployment benefit but also to increase the concession period, making it have the duration it had before the Troika was cut, which is what is still in the law. Thirdly, we need to protect self-employed, informal workers from the culture, tourism and restoration sectors. Most of these supported workers are receiving support below the poverty threshold and a good part is receiving €219 per month, even some of those who made discounts. I would like to ask you if you are available to increase the value of these support. Finally, Mrs Minister, in the context of the support measures, the Government has forgotten the caregivers and informal caregivers. The PS and PSD have led to the expansion of family support for informal caregivers in this Parliament. Question, Madam Minister, if it is available to cover informal caregivers in support measures and when pilot projects will enter into force. I would also like to know whether, in the context of strengthening homes, where there are, at the moment, 4300 professional caregivers, who have been assisted by continuing care institutions, the Minister is available to regularize the situation of these people, without being through occupational programmes, which are ways in which there is no contract, which are forms of precariousness assisted by the State, but rather by valuing their efforts and guaranteeing them a contract. We understand that we need to value the effort that has already been made, but there is much to do, if we do not really want to leave anyone behind. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u41	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is the turn of the PSD Parliamentary Group, so I give the floor to request clarification from Mrs Ofélia Ramos. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u42	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Prime Minister says that the crisis of COVID-19 is a pedagogical experience for those who doubted the social state and, on this line, also Mrs Ana Catarina Mendes so advocated. No one should doubt, or should not have, the importance of the social state, especially in times of economic crisis, such as the one we are facing today. The only doubt we have, and we have many reasons to have, is the government's ability to respond to all those who need State support. And the truth is, the state has failed. It has failed in the support measures for families and businesses, since they are manifestly insufficient in the face of the identified needs, has failed in compliance with the deadlines and payments for these measures, has failed in the processing and payment of the simplified layoff, as has been failing in the processing and payment of pensions. [[Protests by PS Pedro do Carmo.]] Too many failures! They are too many failures, but they are factual failures, which are the knowledge of all those who wait and despair for a response from the state. How can the Government state that we have a strong and robust social state, when it fails to support the social sector, which is one of the main pillars of the social state? Oh, my God! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u43	And this is proof of the delay in payment of debts to the social sector in the area of health. [[All right!]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u44	We have today, more than ever, to give a quick, quick answer... [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u45	I'm asking the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, let the honourable Member intervene. Please proceed, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u46	Today, more than ever, we have to give rapid response to all those who are deprived of income, pensions or social support, because the state machine, which was already failing, is still failing. Therefore, I ask you, Minister of Labour, whether or not a new phase of the social canteen network will be implemented and whether or not the government will update the value of financial participation for this social response, insofar as it has not been updated since 2012. I also ask the government...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u47	Ask, ask!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u48	... if it will update the value of the financial participation of social security for the operation of social equipment and responses, in order to reflect the updating of the national minimum wage, in the commitment of cooperation with the social sector. Finally, I ask whether the Government will move forward with the elaboration of the tax status provided for in the Social Economy Bases Act, adopted in this Chamber in 2013 and which did not implement, therefore, Mr Minister, more important than affirming and saying that the State is social is to make it social. This is important! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u49	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is the time of the CFP Parliamentary Group, so you have the floor to ask for clarifications, Mrs Diana Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u50	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Minister of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security, contrary to what has been said at various times, and which has also been taken into account in Mrs. Minister's speech, is not being demanded at all and are not all on the same boat. The bank administrators and large groups are not on the same boat, they continue to receive dividends, and they are not on the same boat workers who have cuts in wages and are losing their jobs. Once again, it is the workers who are paying the bill for this whole situation. Once again, it is the workers who are suffering wild layoffs, who are having cuts in wages, including because of the layoff, which reaches hundreds of thousands of workers, who are suffering every day gross workers in their workplaces, on the pretext of this virus. Workers with precarious ties were the first to be considered disposable by many employers. We are talking about workers at the end of the contract, of workers in the experimental period, of workers who are false green receipts, who work at the time, on the part, of workers from temporary work companies, outsourcing. Thousands of these workers were pointed at the door of the street, to which the gravity of many have no social protection. We are talking about more than 100 000 unemployed registered since 1 March, Mrs Minister, in agreement with data publicly available by the Government. It should be remembered, in this respect, that the CFP proposed here the prohibition of redundancies, which was what is being imposed at the time and is also what is being imposed at this time. As we proposed that all workers should be guaranteed the payment of the 100 % wage, which was the requirement to combat the increase in poverty, which is also at the door. Mr Minister, the path that must be taken is, indeed, the creation of employment with rights, the general value of wages, the strengthening of labour rights, but also the fight against job insecurity, because this is also the precariousness of social protection, and it is necessary to advance the guarantee of social protection for workers. Two very specific questions, Mrs Minister : in addition to the words of valorisation of public administration workers, is the Government available to implement specific measures, namely the guarantee of the supplement for insanity, penosity and risk, whose implementation has been continuously postponed by successive governments? And, Madam Minister, is the Government available to ensure, as the CFP proposes, extraordinary social protection support for workers who do not have access to other social protection instruments and mechanisms? [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u51	To request clarification at the end of this first group, Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Greens has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u52	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security, more than in any other circumstances, this crisis is demonstrating the importance of the social state. And it is being demonstrated so clearly that even those who normally seek to devalue it or look at it with a certain disdain are now forced to "give their hand to palmatory" and recognize its importance. There is no doubt that, in fact, the social state is becoming absolutely decisive in this fight. But if it is true that the health response is testing the social state and, in particular, the SNS, in particular, it is also true that the response to the social and economic problems that this crisis is causing will test the government's options, particularly in labour matters, as regards support for families and as regards the survival of micro and small enterprises. On the other hand, Mrs Minister, this pandemic calls on us to think of a future that respects environmental balance and that meets the climate challenges, which obliges us, of course, to prevent everything from being delivered to the market. It may even seem strange to be talking about environmental matters to the Minister of Labour, but no, there is nothing strange, because we are talking about areas that can actually boost job creation. For this reason, Mrs Minister, it would be important to know what the Government thinks, for example, of drawing up a national asbestos removal plan, which definitely solves this serious environmental but also public health problem, which can boost the creation of jobs throughout the country. Just as it would be important to know what the government of the bet that it is necessary to do at the level of recycling, which, according to studies, could lead immediately and permanently to the creation of 5000 jobs. I would therefore like the Minister to speak on these two issues. In addition, it is necessary to ensure income for thousands of people who have been left out of support. We are talking, above all, about people connected to the arts and culture, but also, in general, about all the self-employed who, being in a precarious situation from the point of view of work, have been without work and also without access to any support. As far as micro and small businesses are concerned, the Greens have already had the opportunity to propose to the Government the creation of a treasury fund and also the suspension of payment on their behalf. But we believe that support must extend beyond the health crisis, because, as you can see, even after the health crisis has passed, the internal market will take time to react, given the loss of income on the part of families. If micro and small businesses depend essentially on the internal market, this means that these companies will need to continue to be supported to survive long after the crisis has passed. We therefore hope that the Government will take this into account. Finally, Mrs Minister, I would like to leave you a question regarding layoff. We have seen some political forces defending the extension of the layoff regime and that makes us concerned, because this implies a substantial loss of income for those who work. So we're talking about a third of the incomes, and this value, for a family, represents a lot of income. In addition to the injustice that this measure entails, the layoff which, in fact, is seen as an anti-recessive measure, does not cease to be a lame measure, precisely because it implies the loss of people's income, which will naturally reflect from the point of view of domestic demand and also in relation to the revival of the economy. I ask you, Minister, whether the government is studying alternative mechanisms in this area that do not go through the loss of incomes of those who work. As we understand, this measure is lame and not so counter-recessive, because the withdrawal of income from families will have effects from the point of view of demand and the internal market and, in turn, also on the relaunching of our economy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u53	In reply, Mrs. Minister of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security, Ana Mendes Godinho.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u54	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Maria Begonha, this is indeed the moment when, for the second time, young people are being affected by an economic and social crisis, being one of the most affected parties, particularly with regard to job insecurity. in this sense, it must be, and is assumed by the government as one of the priority and fundamental public in employment support policies, both those already existing, both in which we are developing and building, within the framework of the Economic and Social Stabilization Programme and then in the recovery programme. The government therefore clearly takes priority over sustainable employment, with young people as a fundamental public. We also know that it is a fundamental public in terms of demographic issues and we want to ensure that young people, unlike other times, are never advised to emigrate. With this government, young people will not be advised to emigrate. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] We clearly need young people for the country's development model that we are all building. [[PSD protests.]] Mr José Soeiro, mentioned his concern at the breakdown of the income of many workers. These have also been quite extraordinary times from the point of view of the effort that is being asked of all in these situations we live in. The measures we have been implementing and putting into force have always sought to represent a shared and collective effort in the various solutions we were implementing, to ensure, above all, and at first, that we managed to maintain and secure jobs at a very difficult time, in which many companies have simply ceased to have economic activity. The great concern was to sustain the evolution of unemployment numbers, to have a pillow that would allow the evolution of these numbers to be dampened. as we look at the evolution of the number of people enrolled in the employment centres between the beginning of March and the present moment, we see that we have more than 85 000 people enrolled in the employment centres of the national territory—that is, we have daily monitoring. These are mainly workers who come from the areas and sectors most affected by the stoppage of activity, specifically from tourism, trade and the processing industry. We also sought, through these measures that were being implemented, particularly through simplified layoff, to ensure a minimum of income so that workers would never receive less than the national minimum wage, even if they had a fall of one third. Therefore, it was ensured that, in these situations, they never had an income below the national minimum wage. We also sought to ensure rules to prevent companies benefiting from these support from distributing dividends during the implementation of these measures and from triggering collective dismissal or termination of the job. Moreover, the figures we have of the evolution of collective redundancies show that there is a decrease in April in the face of May, certainly also very affected by the impossibility of companies resorting to this support, when they are making use of the support provided by the State. The concern we had was that there was indeed a shared effort among all, and the layoff clearly simplified the greatest effort, which is assumed by the State budget. That was another of the questions that you put. In fact, the extraordinary measures that have entered into force assume that they are extraordinary transfers of money from the State budget, which also represents a collective effort of all, but not an effort from the social security budget. This will ensure the sustainability of the social security system itself, which at present also has a significant impact on the loss of declared remuneration. We are preparing the regulation of support for the maintenance of jobs at the end of the layoff, i.e. when companies leave the layoff. We are in the process of regulation and, as you know, we have been listening to all parties, all partners, in order to identify the best way to regulate these measures and to find instruments for this phase of economic and social stabilization. We have been listening to the various partners to build the measures, also responding to everyone's concerns, trying to find a balance between the collective effort we are asking for, the maintenance of jobs and the protection of workers' incomes. With regard to the social unemployment allowance, we have in fact halved the guarantee period to allow access to that allowance. And we do so precisely because funding is not made through the social security system, but through transfers from the State budget, which is a collective effort, and not just an effort from the social security budget, because it does not necessarily reflect the contributions that workers have made. Therefore, these are extraordinary measures, which are somehow disconnected from the contributions of workers and therefore there was a need to be financed by another way rather than by the effort of those who contributed to social security. The same can be said of the measures that have been set up for informal workers, who have not contributed to the system. However, we are asking in exchange for them to enter the system, that they have an exceptional support measure for two months in exchange for a linkage and loyalty through the entry into the social security system, to be part of this collective system of solidarity and joint protection. Mrs Ofélia Ramos, with regard to social security failures, I would like to reiterate and stress that the effort that the whole system and all social security workers have made does not appear to be reflected in the assessment made by Mrs Deputy. within a record period of about a month and a half since the implementation of these measures, there have been a large number of people and companies who have already received social security support. at present, there are already 1 million and 200,000 workers covered by extraordinary social security measures and support, and 138 000 enterprises — EUR 620 million. Of course, as everyone can imagine, it was an immense and extreme difficulty to implement all these measures. Just look at what is happening in other European countries to see how extraordinary this social security response capacity has been, with all the difficulties it has had. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As regards the question of social cantons, there has already been an increase in the capacity of cantons by about 20 %. We have also doubled, we are empowering the increase in the response to the food programme and we are developing a new instrument, particularly through vouchers, to ensure that this form of support is dignified, that it values people and not a form of assistance. Just to remember, I mean that in the last month and a half, in terms of support for the social sector, we have reinforced 125 million in the various actions we have done — only 125 million transfers to strengthen social responses! Therefore, there has been a huge articulated work together with the social sector. Mrs Diana Ferreira, I have also talked about concerns about the protection of incomes, the cut-off of wages and the strengthening of ACT with more than 188 inspectors, but in the last round of answers I will be able to talk more about it. Mr. José Luís Ferreira, yes, we fully agree with the Green Economy bet, particularly with an asbestos removal programme. We know it's been a concern for many years. We need to implement this program and we are giving exactly the strength to make that happen. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u55	There are six further requests for clarification, Mrs Minister. First of all, you have the floor, Mr Ventura, to this end.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u56	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs Minister, after hearing the head of the PS parliamentary board and the Minister, it seems that we live in a different country. I would just like to remind you, Mrs. Minister, that it was your Prime Minister who, on June 18, also recommended to Portuguese teachers without placement that they emigrated. This is just to remember that history has a certain memory and that we should remember it. [[PS protests.]] The Minister and the head of the PS parliamentary board said there was no one left behind. In fact, there was no one behind it because, for example, an independent worker with less than 12 months of work and contributions receives the fantastic amount of €219! Could not connect with command "%s": %s. So no one stays behind, indeed! Open... No one's going to stay behind! Open... [[PS protests.]] The Minister also said that social security has met all test objectives today. But he was fortunate, because, as he was speaking, the news came that, in Portalegre, at the Home of Our Lady of Grace, none of the employees who will enter the service on June 1 did the test at the COVID-19. The devil's luck, Mrs. Minister! It seems that what the government says is not what the facts say! But you also tell the Minister that you have responded to all the requests. Let me tell you that 11 000 companies have been left without support because of social security errors, such as the IBAN (international bank account number) and other minor data. They've run out of support for this! In particular, it was even denounced by the Order of the Accountants. I think it would be nice to respond to this, rather than being here saying that everything went well, that we live in the country of wonders, that we're all going to give our hands and be happy, because that's what we do. [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u57	You have the floor, for a request for clarification, Mrs Elza Pais of the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u58	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Minister, this pandemic crisis has hit everyone, but it has not reached everyone in the same way. It has affected, as has already been said, disproportionately, the poorest and most vulnerable, who were also those who lost most jobs and incomes and who were most ill. They just didn't lose anymore because there was a social state that supported them. It has also disproportionately and very worryingly affected, as the Secretary-General of the United Nations says, women, who represent, globally, 70% of the people who work in health and the social sector. They were at the front of this pandemic, but were also at the back, in unpaid work of support to families, children and the elderly, which increased significantly. They had to reconcile, at home, telework with domestic work and school support for children and, in many cases, with increased risks of domestic violence. A truly dramatic situation! The Government has implemented family support measures in a specific and urgent manner. I stress the exceptional support for workers to stay with their children. Of the 170 000 beneficiaries in March, 80 % are women. A very worrying reality, as the Minister has already said. If the gender perspective in post-COVID-19 measures had not been introduced, or we would surely live the greatest retreat ever in terms of autonomy and the human rights of women in international conventions. Fortunately, we have a government that has elected the equality agenda as the priority area of this legislature. If that made sense before, it makes even more sense now. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is therefore urgent to continue in the path of a decent society, a society where paid and unpaid work is an integral part of decent work for all people, as the ILO recommends. The question that I leave to you, Mrs Minister, is the following: how will the Government combat the setbacks at this level that are already known and that have been inevitably and indisputably caused by this crisis? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u59	You now have the floor to request clarification from Mr João Pinho de Almeida of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u60	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Members: the Socialist Party today brought the debate to a point which, at this time, should be a reason to thank all Portuguese who had a decisive role in combating a pandemic that, obviously, no one expected and to discuss what went better and worse with regard to this fight but did not do anything about it; it came first to make an adjustment of accounts, choosing who were the good and bad in history. You're not right, no way! Of course, he has no reason for ideological reasons and for historical reasons: the social model which prevails in Portugal and which prevails in Europe as a whole is a construction of social democrats and Christian Democrats. If someone is distinguished from an ideological point of view, it is between those who have built a solidarity Europe and those who, on the other hand, in Eastern Europe — those with whom you like to walk by hand — who have always defended communist models, who have never given their people the same solidarity, the same conditions that gave the European social model, built by social democrats and Christian Democrats. Therefore, if they want to be rigorous, be rigorous historically, be rigorous ideologically and understand where the distinction is. But we're going to the factual criterion. There are things that distinguish us ideologically: it distinguishes us - freedom of choice, distinguishes us - the importance of subsidiarity, the importance of managing public resources. And what do we see? It is that countries that better manage public resources, which give more importance to subsidiarity, which give more importance to freedom of choice have responded better to this situation than Portugal has answered. And the indicators are there to prove it. Regarding Portugal, where was this strong state when so many elderly people stayed at home and needed assistance? Was social security there to solve the problem or were private institutions of social solidarity? [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]] [[PS protests.]] Where was that strong state when entire populations were at risk without tests? Who was to acquire the tests that the populations needed? Was this strong central state or were the authorities that were able to reach their populations first and solve the problem? [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]] [[PS and BE protests.]] When the children had to stay at home and be taught at a distance, the families with little resources, who did not have computers for their children to have classes, went to get their computers to the strong state that you here defended or were once again the authorities that solved the problem and allowed these families to have equal conditions? [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]] [[PS and BE protests.]] When the homes of the elderly did not have personal protective equipment to be able to assist those who live in them, was the state that first arrived or had to be once again the authorities, because the state did not organize itself to arrive in time to give that answer? A little humility made sense! [[PS protests.]] Obviously, no one would be able to give such an answer without the organization of a social model based on the public response and all the subsidiary response that exists on the ground. We must recognize the importance of the plurality of this response, the humility to realize that there have been people who have devoted themselves extraordinarily to the National Health Service, that there have been people who have devoted themselves extraordinarily to social security, but that there have also been people who are as worthy as that, who have dedicated themselves to companies, who have dedicated themselves to the authorities, who have devoted themselves to private institutions of social solidarity and who cannot be treated here as second-only Portuguese and exclusively because it does not belong to this all-powerful State that you think is the alpha and the omega of the country. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]] I'm sorry, but that's not the country view we're defending. So, Madam Minister, I would like to ask you the following: if the State has — and has! — this importance, when will the State pay the debts that have increased in the last month compared to the previous month? How can it be that, at such a difficult time, the late State payments have increased? When is the state going to reimburse the IRS (tax on income of natural persons) that this year is reimbursing later than it has reimbursed in other years? So, the state, which is so important—and is it for people—is it wrong right now? Doesn't he pay who he owes? Doesn't he return the money to whom he held it? So if the State has to perform its function it must return the money that is not itss and that is from each of the taxpayers. Shouldn't that be the priority? If the State has that role, who should not be paid its priority? Where are the priorities of the responsibility of the State in what should be the first of all: not to keep money that is not yours? [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u61	Mr Ana Mesquita of the CFP Parliamentary Group now has the floor for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u62	Mr President, Minister, we need to talk about the answers that are missing. And the workers of the arts and culture still lack many, sectoral and transversal. One of them is very simple: what will be the livelihood of thousands of professionals in the show without support, or with very low support, besides solidarity among these workers? What are the answers to those who cannot compete with support for creation and who are dependent on events or who can only pass receipt from time to time, because their work concentrates on a given time of year? Asking them for a binding commitment when they don't know what they're going to put on the plate tomorrow may not be the best way to bring more people into the system. Given that the high season of some of these workers is summer, and that this is severely engaged, the next winter, with or without COVID-19, will be very long. What answers are being prepared for this reality? In sectoral terms, it would have been essential to create an emergency social support fund for arts and culture, as proposed by the CFP, but it was not created. We have another proposal, Mrs Minister, to respond to thousands of workers without any social support in times of COVID-19, whether they are independent or without formal link, workers with precarious links, term contracts, false green receipts, work led by the provision of services, hourly work, or dayly: extraordinary social protection support for workers without access to other instruments and protection mechanisms. Mr Minister, the Government and the Socialist Party themselves are still in time to follow this proposal. Are they going to do this or are they going to expect the reality to be right again to the CFP, to its denunciation and to its proposal? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u63	You have the floor to request clarification from Mrs Lina Lopes of the PSD Parliamentary Group, which I welcome for her birthday. [[General applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u64	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the situation we are living in these days and which, unfortunately, will be extended, shows us well the imponderability of the world and the need for better flexibility and openness of thought. Companies have been exposed to an unexpected crisis and show difficulty in reacting to this pandemic crisis—especially the smaller ones, the micro and the medium-sized enterprises. Madam Minister, it is distressing to see families suffer a brutal decrease in income as a result of this situation. There are precarious workers, with term contracts, in experimental period, with temporary work, independent workers, among others, who in many cases have been without any income. Mr Minister, one of the conditions for companies to be able to access simplified layoff was that of maintaining employment — I repeat, it was that of maintaining employment. Unfortunately, that did not happen. If we look at the number of applications that have entered the social security services, we find that we have more than 120 000 applications for unemployment benefit, and not 100 000 as they said, from 1 March to 21 May, i.e. in two months, Mrs. Minister, according to IEFP (Instituto do Emprego e Formation Professional). [[Protests by PS Member Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro.]] Mrs. Minister, I leave you three questions. Do you think the government will extend the simplified layoff? If layoff remains until the end of the year, as proposed by the Social Democratic Party, does it not believe that there should be a greater balance between the support granted to businesses and workers, in particular by reducing the burden on workers? Finally, Mrs Minister, having there have been, as is public, abuses by some companies in the use of the simplified layoff at this first stage — for example, of companies that have resorted to the layoff but have kept working at 100 %; others have resorted to the layoff and have kept the workers working in telework — what measures does the Government consider to take in order to avoid the repetition of these situations? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u65	You now have the floor for one last request for clarification, Mr Bruno Dias, of the CFP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u66	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs Minister, one of the crucial issues at the moment is the operation of the transport sector and the response that companies are providing to the country's needs in this context or not. It has been clear that operators have failed to comply with the DGS ( Directorate-General for Health ) rules and guidelines, from the outset, with the very serious inadequacies in the supply which lead to overcrowding and unbearable conditions for the use of public transport. From the north to the south of the country, there is an unacceptable lack of transport to serve the populations, and this is due to lack of public investment and resources in the public sector, but also, from then on, because the Portuguese State is paying to private companies for them to be stopped! There are thousands of workers, with cuts in their wages, and the money of social security to finance the charges of transport companies — the same ones that are leaving the population to leave! Will the government end this scandal, Minister? A second question we want to ask you has to do with the layoff regime in the transport sector. Mr Minister, does the Government consider it acceptable for a company that imposes layoff on its workers, invoking a strong reduction in operational activity, however, to invite and provide workers, casuistically, for operations, in an intermittent layoff, which binds and shuts down, to the master's will? Is this a la carte regime acceptable, which disrespects workers, who keep them with their salaries cut, while waiting to be called, which makes the right to work a kind of offer by invitation? That's what's happening at TAP, Mrs. Minister! And it is essential to know what measures will be taken in the face of this scandalous situation. It is essential that the Government respond here, in the debate, but especially with concrete actions, to these problems. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u67	You now have the floor to answer, Mrs. Minister of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security, Ana Mendes Godinho.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u68	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, first of all, as I have recently been unable to answer the question about informal caregivers, I now use to say that we are in a position to start pilot projects with informal caregivers in June. We had had the need to postpone the start of pilot projects because the joints did not have the ability to do the verification, but we are in a position to move forward in June, assuming and fulfilling the commitment we had made from the retroactive payment of the situations to ensure that people are protected in the time that has already taken. Therefore, this will be done in June, precisely because we realize that this is an important moment in which we must also ensure that we can implement it quickly, in order to respond to those who need more vulnerable people and populations. Mr. André Ventura, I do not think you have the full information about the home you have spoken about. It is that this home has already tested its workers, even more than once. [[P.S.'s applause.]] You can verify what is happening, but I suggest that you ask for information to understand how many tests have been done in this home and how many times each worker has been done. We are already talking about repetitions of tests to workers, so we are already in another phase. In relation to the issue you put, about whether we all learn from mistakes, clearly that we all learn from mistakes and what has happened is that no one was ready for this moment. And that means that they were not all prepared: the state services, which had to create completely extraordinary measures, the companies, all those who had to interact through a new system, a new computer measure, to ensure that we were able to process, with this speed capacity—at present there are already 99,500 companies paid within the framework of the layoff. I understand how this has in fact represented a great capacity for implementation with all the difficulties that we have all had. [[P.S.'s applause.]] With all the difficulty that we all had to implement quick measures, which would quickly reach people. We've been able to fulfill and it's done. [[P.S.'s applause.]] If there's anything we all need to learn, I think, is that there's actually no good and bad. But there are times when we all learn. And we learned that it is in these times of difficulty that we live that all come to ask the social protection system to answer the problems. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I think this is a learning that remains for everyone, the learning of those who respond at a difficult time to those who need it. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I think this is obvious, and I hope that this learning will lead to the fact that old ghosts of privatization of the social security system do not return. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CH Member's Protests André Ventura.]] Mr President, I confirm that support has already been paid to 138 000 companies. That's what I confirm. [[CH Member's Protests André Ventura.]] We have 99,500 companies in the simplified layoff, but these 138 000 include all support. [[CH Member's Protests André Ventura.]] Mr President, we are not going to monopolize because the other Members also have the right to answer. Mrs Ana Mesquita, on the matter of getting to where we have not yet arrived, this has been our constant concern, that is to say, to situations where we have not yet arrived, and with the permanent commitment to try to reach out to everyone and to respond to those who need it. Mrs Lina Lopes, I just wanted to tell you that the Act has already carried out — as a result of the capacity to strengthen the Act — 369 actions to monitor the specific situations of layoff for which there were indications or allegations of abuse. Therefore, it is currently developing a joint action with the Social Security Institute for Data Crossing and to ensure a monitoring capacity. Mr Bruno Dias, with regard to these measures, we have sought to ensure that there is always a balance in the collective effort of all. That's what we did. We also take on the commitment that in future we will continue to work with everyone, in dialogue, in partnership, in order to find the best solutions for those who need it, when needed. That is our commitment. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u69	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr José Soeiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u70	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister : I thank you for the answers, but there are still many questions to be clarified, in particular if 100% income will be guaranteed to layoff workers or if the minimum ceiling will be changed, which will be done for self-employed workers who are receiving values below the poverty threshold — it is important to clarify — and also how can we protect all workers who are not yet covered by support measures. The Left Block presented in Parliament on 6 May a proposal for an extraordinary grant of unemployment and cessation of activity which aims precisely to cover all those workers who, so to speak, did not qualify for other support. We are talking about informal workers, of course: we are talking about workers who do not have access to unemployment benefit because they do not meet the guarantee deadline; we are talking about digital workers; we are talking about domestic workers, who do not have access to unemployment benefit, like workers on behalf of others with the same rules; we are talking about the world of cultural workers and precariously, i.e. people who have been forced to become companies, but do not have protection at this time. I believe that we needed to have a social protection mechanism that considered the exceptional nature of the moment we are living and that it really did not leave anyone behind. I would therefore say that we need to have a strategy to create jobs and take advantage of this moment for the construction of public policies so that these same public policies can also change the pattern of precarious employment. He was therefore asked whether the 4300 workers who ran to homes could be admitted with a contract of work and not through a precarious form, type of occupational programme, which, in essence, is to give a grant that complements the unemployment benefit. We need to create jobs to strengthen continued care, long-term care, support for the elderly, and then the government has to set an example. I ask you, Madam Minister, if you do not understand that this is the moment of a determined action against the precariousness and extension of the experimental period, which exposes the problem of precariousness and which continues in the law. I ask you, Minister, if you do not think we are far from preventing the work impunity we face every day. I have met in port on Monday with workers from a restaurant - an example among many thousands — who have not received anything since February, who have already contacted ACT, and have not yet had any intervention. They are workers in a restaurant that had a daily turnover of 7000 €. Suddenly, the restaurant not only didn't pay them in February, as it didn't pay them in the following months. The private security workers — the Minister knows well — from the PSG, for example, who have been hired by the State, are still many of them in a limbo situation, in which they have not been integrated into the job they had or are not having access to unemployment benefit. Finally, Madam Minister, I ask you whether you agree with the proposal of the Left Block of an extraordinary unemployment and cessation allowance. It may also be the opportunity to make a national plan to combat informal work and to be able to give rights, to recognize social protection and to recognize rights to all those workers who have been put aside and who are unprotected. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u71	The honourable Member put a number of questions to the Minister, but the question stage had already ended. This was therefore an intervention by the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u72	Exactly, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u73	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr André Ventura.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u74	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: What we had here today was the replication of the idea that such a strong state was here when the Portuguese needed it. But nothing is more false than that. And nothing is more false when we look at what happened in hospitals, when we look at what happened in social security and when we look at what happens every day, when we're talking here, about the taxes of the Portuguese. We have a Secretary of State who says we're going to miss the tax burden we had last year. I don't know who! Maybe the socialists really miss, we won't, certainly. There are independent workers, lawyers, applicants, small entrepreneurs who, every day, on television, on radios, in all media, say « support has not yet arrived ». But propaganda is always this: "It is being made. We're on our way. We are in the best reference in Europe. Do not keep on seeking. ” No one knows what this "better reference of Europe" is when we give 214 €— 214! — support for self-employed persons. No one understands where this "better reference in Europe" is! Just as no one understands where Europe's best reference is when we have a Prime Minister who comes here to Parliament saying that "there will be nothing left behind, there will be no one left behind, we will not increase taxes, we will not increase revenue". And what does it bring, in terms of the future? A wait for what will become better and an economic context to see if one day, from a year to a half, we are in a better situation or not. The Government must answer this: how and how will it succeed in restructuring the Portuguese economy? So far we have zero answers! Mrs Ana Catarina Mendes, the strong state can make your delights in socialist tertulia, accompanied by your far-left friends, but does not put bread on the table of the Portuguese, nor lower taxes on the families of the Portuguese, nor reimburses the IRS...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u75	Mr. Deputies, you've exceeded your time. I'm asking you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u76	I will finish, Mr. President. Mrs Ana Catarina Mendes, after all we had so much money to give, we were so good with the budget surplus and we have not yet reimbursed the IRS to the Portuguese that already paid it. What a shame of state!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u77	What a disgrace to the honourable Member!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u78	What a shame of government!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u79	You're not ashamed of anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u80	This is the conclusion that we must draw here today in response to the pandemic in Europe: a real shame of response!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u81	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u82	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Liberal Initiative wants to pay tribute to health care professionals, the SNS and all the others who have helped in the fight against the virus in this inquiry about the social state. It is a tribute in our own way, liberal, applauding and thanking the millions of gestures of dedication and detachment that each of the professionals has decided to do individually, according to their professional and personal conscience. The risk that these professionals have run, and they run, for us, the separation of the entities to which, so many times, they have been obliged, the long hours of work and dedication deserve our gratitude. Especially because they didn't do it for personal gain or prominence, they did it because they are good professionals and good people, with a sense of mission. And they didn't do it because they were in the SNS. In fact, given the disorganization, the remuneration policy, the evaluation and progression policy, we can even say that they did so despite the SNS. These people are not good due to SNS, they are good despite SNS. They would be as good or better in health systems as we stand for Portugal, inspired by the Dutch or German system, of the best in the world, with much better conditions, with freedom of choice—yes, with freedom of choice—and that they did not need last-minute recruitments and investments to deal with the COVID-19. It is therefore particularly regrettable that PS and its left-wing satellites would like to appropriate the merits of these professionals. Professionals who would have the same dedication and brightness in any system...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u83	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President. You've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u84	I shall conclude, Mr President, by saying that these professionals would have the same dedication and shine in any system, and in a system that would value its merits even more. So here I am obliged to health professionals, not as President of the Liberal Initiative, but as a son, brother, father and citizen.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u85	Mrs Ana Rita Bessa of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u86	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PS has come here today to propose an ideological debate. It's a legitimate debate, which the CDS won't run away from and I won't run away. And we don't run away, because we know what we stand for and why we defend him. when speaking about health, either Mrs Ana Catarina Mendes or the Government in general try to put, illusoryly, the question between those who defend the SNS and who are, therefore, the good ones, and those who attack the SNS and therefore will be the bad ones. But this distinction is not only serious as it is not even relevant. And it is not relevant, because the distinction that is really important to people is that which, in terms of public policy, puts people first — people and their right to health care — before and above ideology. During the pandemic, according to Mr. Minister's figures in committee, 840 000 consultations in primary care were to be held, 540 000 consultations in hospitals and 51 000 surgeries. The Director of the National Program for Oncological Diseases speaks of 4000 oncological surgeries not performed. Yesterday, Mr Bastonário of the Medical Order said that the number of acute myocardial infarctions decreased by 50 % compared to the homologous period — it should be noted that they did not have decreased before reaching health care. The Government will therefore have to take a decision very soon. With regard to the waiting lists, you will have to make a choice to cope with the delay that was already coming from before, what was to be done during the two months of the peak of the pandemic and the current activity that will now unfold. The government will have to decide whether it continues to proclaim the SNS as an end in itself or if it actually puts people above all this and, of course, resorts to the SNS, but to all the capacity existing in the private and social sectors, so that there is health care in time and time for all people. Mrs. Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the government, you have not been elected nor are you in places where you are to serve the social state, but to serve the people. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u87	The Bureau records the registration of Mrs Maria Antónia de Almeida Santos to request clarification, but Mrs Ana Rita Bessa no longer has time to answer. Unless the PS Parliamentary Group is in the process of giving up some of its time. Or, then, the honourable Member asks the question and gets in the air. [[Pause.]] Stay in the air. You have the floor, then, to ask for clarification, Mrs Maria Antónia de Almeida Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u88	Mr President, the question is not in the air, it is addressed. There is no answer, but there will be other opportunities. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, today we can proudly state that the National Health Service has not collapsed,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u89	Sure! You didn't do anything else! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u90	...he didn't regret, he didn't give in to the health drama that we're all living. [[P.S.'s applause.]] When I say « health drama», this is not only in Portugal ; it happens in Portugal and the rest of the world. The competence and dedication of health professionals in hospitals and units that provide health care were only possible because in 1979 there was a socialist, a humanist, an extraordinary man who insisted and decided that the National Health Service should be general, universal and free and that this National Health Service was the future. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Yes, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, was relevant! It was our choice, it was our free choice. It's this free choice that we don't regret, and the results are showing. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Madam Member, this was undoubtedly the best basis for solidarity, social justice and also for the effectiveness of public policies, which are based on health promotion. Madam Member, the best way to defend pandemic populations, as we are seeing, has been a National Health Service which, despite all criticisms, has been inexhaustible. As we have done so far, a course of construction and dialogue in a situation like this, which requires extraordinary measures, I would like to ask Mrs Ana Rita Bessa if the CDS is available - it seems to me that she has drifted a little away from her path - to accompany us in this position of commitment to the recovery of the National Health Service and the Country, which very much needs our effort. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u91	I can't give Mrs Ana Rita Bessa the floor to answer, because she doesn't have time. Mr Hugo Carvalho of the PSD Parliamentary Group speaks for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u92	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There were always times when everything seemed stable and when everything seemed to want to change at the same time. There were always high and low times, times of abundance and times of crisis. About this time, which began months ago, there was nothing written, there were no experiences, there were no recipes, there was no study path or default. But the « the worse, the better » was neither the option of the PSD. We have placed ourselves against the virus and we do not expect any special recognition, nor do we use parliamentary records to remind people of it. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u93	The PSD did only, and only, what competed with it: being at the height of the moment, as the leader of the opposition in Portugal. [[PSD applause.]] If no one was aware of this crisis, neither can we ignore that it is the State's obligation to create resilience for these moments, to prepare its institutions for difficult times, under the penalty of failing those who promise to protect. at a time when we have to work on this response to a crisis that is far from over, the PS wanted to stop to make a balance sheet, as if we were not yet at the beginning of a long and difficult period. There have been many, even many requests to the State, even by those who do not believe in the social state. But the real response of the social state was not that of the PS, nor was it that of former PS militants, it was that of the best characteristic of a secure democracy of itself, which is civil society. [[PSD applause.]] It was extra hours and the tireless work of health professionals, who can never be sufficiently compensated, but who agreed that the government should pay what it owes in hours. [[PSD applause.]] It was the work of the authorities, the police, the security forces, the waste workers, the food sector, the distribution and transport that kept the country working. It was the small businesses and the small traders, to whom the government said « before your workers’ wages and close doors, which we soon pay the support », having failed. It was the managers of the small restaurants, which the government and the PS find too rich to take advantage of their own social security discounts. It was the IPSS ( private institutions of social solidarity), which guarantee a social response of proximity to which the Government continues to delay payments. It was the suppliers, to whom the State still fails to pay its debts. The social state was these men and women, their dedication, their solidarity, to whom the government, at the time of paying, said «supports today are taxed tomorrow», without remembering so many others who pay their taxes and do not even see the social state coming. Let us see, then, what response did the State give to workers with green receipts, to whom was promised support a month ago and still not even able to apply because they do not have a form? How do they respond to the workers of culture, who deserved so much more than the bullshit festival your minister presented to them? [[PSD applause.]] Is that the response of the social state that the PS defends? For Fridayers, street vendors, gym workers, tourism workers, science precariouss? For so many people who, anonymously, live personal and family dramas because they are deprived of their work, without guilt, but also without adequate response from this social state? All these people expect small support that they so much need and hear Mr Finance Minister admit that he delays IRS reimbursements on purpose as he accelerates transfers of hundreds of millions of euros to the New Bank. [[PSD applause.]] These are the people who, with all the property, have built the National Health Service, have built the social state and today ask: what else will be left to pay? Who else will be left to support? Our value, as a society, is measured by the way we support the most fragile. The social state cannot only be a support for some, nor can it be less than the situation requires. And the situation requires a lot. The social state will need to face major challenges, unemployment, income reduction, whose response cannot be a new tax increase or the usual cut in support of the economy or active employment policies. It should require much more of us the simple fact that hundreds of people my age, with higher education, who have always worked, who have always tried hard to be driven by the professional instability that they already had for today, shamefully go to order food to rows of food banks, which the left is disregarding, but which are the face of the absence of the social state by the country outside. [[PSD applause.]] My generation is, in democracy, the worst known of the concept of economic growth, the one that postpones the future, the one that can lose most incomes, but is also the best qualified, the most able to reinvent and the one that has to be exploited in a global, digital and green economic recovery. If we let this generation fall again, which has always been « scratched», but which has always been unravelling, we will be looking at a future in which contributions to social security are low wages, in which talent and qualifications do not abound, making Portugal once again a country only remedied. Mrs. Ministers, with so much in their hands, your party called you here to make a balance sheet. I hope at least your presence here will give you a balance for everything you have to do. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u94	Mrs Sonia Fertuzinhos of the PS Parliamentary Group was appointed to request clarification. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u95	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr. PSD Member who has just spoken,... [[Hugo Carvalho!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u96	Mr. Hugo Carvalho. I don't think I've insulted anyone, he's a PSD officer who just intervened. But thank you for reminding me of your name. [[PSD protests.]] I don't think Mr. Hugo Carvalho was offended at me. And I ask Mr President to cut me off this time, because obviously I have not yet been able to begin my speech. Mr. Hugo Carvalho, with great pleasure, said that the answer that was not given was not from the Government, it was from civil society, wrong, because he then talked about the workers of the National Health Service, he spoke about the workers of social security, he spoke about the social state. Now, civil society and the social state are two very different things. But it is funny that you have come here to talk about the difficulties of these workers, how much you owe them, because they are the ones who have actually responded to the needs of this country, when it was a party government that you support that cut them wages, which has increased them. [[PSD protests.]] [[P.S.'s applause.]] That increased them... [[PSD protests.]] Mr. President, I wish I didn't have to scream. Above all, I have hearing problems, which makes it hard for me to talk in a normal tone.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u97	I'm asking the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, let the honourable Member ask the question. You may continue, Mrs. Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u98	Mrs. PSD Members, it's a lack of originality, but it's true! You cut the salaries of the health professionals,... [[PSD protests.]] ...increase your working hours... [[Continued PSD protests.]] And the gentlemen. Members only answer with Socrates. Don't be scared! So I will repeat: you cut wages and increased people's working hours without paying them! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] And no, and no, Mr. Hugo Carvalho, today, the debt of state payments is not greater than 2015, is much lower. It's important that I have some rigor! [[PSD protests.]] But Mr Hugo Carvalho also spoke about the resilience of public institutions in response to people and reported delays in processing social security support. I ask you, honourable Member, what would be the response capacity if this government in 2015 had not yet returned to social security the 600 social security workers that the previous government had ordered for requalification! [[P.S.'s applause.]] What would be the capacity of social security to respond? It would be better or worse with fewer workers, how was the social security that you left? But I want to tell you something else, Mr President: today we are discussing social support. Today, we are discussing support for the economy, families and people. It was your response to the crisis, the austerity they defended... [[Yours! Yours!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u99	... and the pro-cyclical measures that deepened the crisis and sent many of their generation to emigrate — I repeat, to emigrate — because they had no expectations of decent work in Portugal. [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u100	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to let the honourable Member put the matter to an end. Then they can manifest themselves in the answer. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u101	Thank you, Mr. President. Because they had no expectations of decent work in Portugal. Today, fortunately, it is for them that this government and the social state are also working to avoid having to re-emigration. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. Deputies, I had thought, prepared my intervention for the PSD to understand the difference between your choice for austerity and our choice for countercyclical measures. [[PSD protests.]] But today we know from his speech and from the proposals that Dr. Rui Rio presented, that the PSD, unfortunately, did not learn anything. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u102	To reply, Mr Hugo Carvalho has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u103	Mrs Sonia Fertuzinhos, I am very grateful for the question that has raised me and I do not take the trouble of forgetting my name, I am sorry that you forget history. [[PSD applause.]] In order to reply quickly, I would say that I expected the PS to have come here to say that the government has been good at some things about the pandemic, and has been; that it has not been so good at others, perhaps until it has been too willing at some of them and then breaking people's expectations, but that it will ultimately encourage the government to improve. However, the PS chose to come here to make the parliamentary toy he always does, the usual toy, shooting himself at the PSD, to a past that, as I will remind him, is a past in which, over the past 25 years, his party has ruled 18. So if you want to throw yourself into the past, you have many cards to play,... [[PSD applause.]] ... but I will answer with one sentence: while Mrs. Deputy does this toy, the people who are at home are exactly the same, without any answer for the future. [[PSD applause.]] While doing so, people lose interest in politics. In fact, I answer you with what you might say to someone who is in line to ask for food: are there social support measures? Oh, my God! They're not here! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u104	Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, of the PAN, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u105	Mr President, Mrs Minister for Labour, Mrs and Mrs Members: This crisis has proved to us that a strong and well-funded social state means the ability to respond to the needs of people and businesses, and not, as some claim, a state 'fat', as this crisis has shown us. In fact, successive governments have left behind their social state—and it is not worth to be offended, because guilt here does not die single, from left to right. But today we could not stop talking about the black figures of the social crisis, of the COVID-19, that is, of all those who are currently unprotected and do not have official government statistics, such as the artists and professionals of the show, who are in serious difficulty today, with the government saying that the maximum they can give them is 219 euros per month and some subsidies—see! — for the creation, in the form of competition, something which, moreover, already existed and which is not a specific response to this crisis, which indicates a huge devaluation of culture in our country, in a context where solidarity and effective support were required, with values worthy of this sector. We also have many thousands of young people working or working in the hotel and catering sector with precarious links, based on internships or six-month contracts. With regard to these young people, the Government urgently needs to change, for example, the layoff regime, so that, as has already been the case with the effective workers, trainees and the final contractors cannot be dismissed, thus ensuring their greater protection. There are still many thousands of people who, every week, throughout the country, fill the ranks to ask for food, because they have broken income and because they have nothing to feed their families. Unprotected are also the associations that help these people and that have had an increase in demand that in the poor times of the troika has not been seen, therefore working at the limit of their capabilities. In response to these people and associations, we have only obtained a worrying silence from the Government and a call from the President of the Republic for each citizen to provide assistance to the Food Bank. Is this the answer the State has to give to people? Oh, my God! We can only say that we deeply regret, especially when the State that forgets the social contract it has for citizens is the same thing that, without thinking twice, injects EUR 850 million in the New Bank with the argument that contracts are to be fulfilled — see that! And the contract we have with our fellow citizens, we ask ourselves, isn't it also to fulfill? Shouldn't he be the priority of this state? For the NAP, it is indeed necessary to take measures that prevent a social corridor from being blocked and that people, already in a precarious situation, are being pushed into the unemployment lines. We therefore defend a State that implements measures that combat the loss of income from families and that protect the most vulnerable people. A measure that must be coordinated with a strategy to combat poverty and that, in a structured, integrated and inter-ministerial way, guarantees, in fact, the existence of emergency responses and social protection. A path that can be achieved by measures such as the substantial increase in the municipal social fund, which the NAP will propose within the reformary budget, so that municipalities can have the necessary financial resources for these responses; the extension of the housing credit moratoriums; the strengthening of the social income of insertion; the mandatory application of the social water tariff throughout the country during the crisis or the regulation of a new expansion of the social energy tariff, as set out in the State budget, on a proposal from the NAP. There are many measures that we can and should defend and debate in this House, but all of them go through an element, too fundamental, the valorization of our professionals, which also pass through a strong social state, in which a National Health Service is also required it is strengthened and capable of giving answers and not a National Health Service which, for decades, has a lack of chronic human resources, especially because not all people are on the same boat and have the same access to health and prevention and protection measures, so essential in this health crisis. We well know that all of this will require a massive mobilization of public money of about EUR 13 billion according to the government. It is therefore urgent for the Government to have the courage to face all those who have been protected during the previous crises. The government will have to choose who it wants to give the hand, whether to people or to the interests installed, who have mined our democracy, such as the tax benefits and other environmentally perverse subsidies, such as the polluting industries, which cost—note well! — around EUR 500 million per year to the State. These are our fats that have to stay behind. Finally, and even though the focus of concerns should be the present, we must also begin to prepare for the changes we want to make in the future. It is therefore necessary to begin planning a recovery based on the construction of a more just, more sustainable, climate-neutral and sustainable economic model, also the promoter of sustainable employment. The social state is not made with mere proclamations or with mere debates, it is made with options. The NAP will be here to defend the social state. It remains to be known which side will be the parties that have oscillated in power. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u106	The NAP is national salvation!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u107	Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u108	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : The Socialist Party has scheduled for today a debate on the responses of the social state to the pandemic, demonstrating the importance of our public services and the social model that we have built so that, after each contribution according to its possibilities, no one will be below receiving according to their needs. The pandemic is a unique challenge in the time of our lives, which has created an unprecedented global crisis: frozen services, stopped production, interrupted supply chains, layoff workers. A shock of this intensity causes many changes and one has been particularly visible over recent times and also in this debate, which is to transform many liberals into socialist commitments. The defence of the minimum state has gone beyond criticism to the maximums that the State has been able to respond. Where some wanted cuts, today they ask for reinforcements; where they pointed fats, today they see agility; where they defend privatization, today they only want the visible hand of the state. [[P.S.'s applause.]] They tell us that these are exceptional times, and that is true. But if the social state serves to come at exceptional times, it may be good to preserve it out of these moments. Universal social security, support for companies and workers, National Health Service, protection of decent work, public school, regulation, redistribution, social justice, all ideas of a decent society that wanted us to believe that he was in disuse, but we concluded that we never need them as strong as today. The social state does not have a button to call and shut down and, in order to have robust answers when we need it, we have to defend and invest in it, regardless of the crises that we encounter conjuncturally. We know that the impact of this crisis is very visible in the world of work. We will need to defend the new unemployed and the new precariouss, because if the crisis is symmetrical, its social and economic effects are asymmetric and they hit hard those who have less and those who are most unprotected in their working relationship. A strong state, which some here today criticized, guaranteed these workers access to health during the most critical phase of the health crisis, which they did not cease to have protection of income when they had to stay at home. The world has changed and we react. We react in and out of doors, indeed, by supporting the vision of a Europe that must be solidarity. The financial effort has been and is very significant but it is no greater than our willingness to give a firm and quick answer, showing that the State is not heavy, it is not bureaucratic, but it is, after all, an authentic package of labour and social protection for millions of Portuguese. This response involved many measures, which the opposition parties preferred to forget: telework; simplified layoff, guaranteeing jobs; extraordinary training plan of the IEFP (Employment and Vocational Training Institute); strengthening the means and powers of the Labour Conditions Authority; suspension of social security contributions; extraordinary extension of social benefits; prophylactic isolation with payment of 100 %; assistance to children and net; exceptional system of justified shortcomings; exceptional support for the monitoring of children under 12 years of age;... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... support for domestic workers; support for self-employed workers; support for individual entrepreneurs; support for IPSSs; support for homeless citizens; intervention in day care; intervention in households. With these and other measures we have created a network of protection and demonstrated the importance of a strong social state to support all Portuguese, cushion shock and avoid the collapse of income and employment. Certainly not everything was perfect, because we are human. We are human, but those who build the social state on a daily basis are the workers of social security, they are the workers who build the social state on a daily basis and for them, in our name, our gratitude. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I end very quickly with a reference to the future. After this first phase of response, we need to look forward. Some leads have already been launched in this debate and we will have the Supplementary Budget and the Economic and Social Stabilization Programme. It is very important that these measures are not dissociated from the path we have made since 2015. In the answer that we are going to give we will totally reject austerity policies because we do not believe them, because they do not serve our people and because economic restriction and income measures will only aggravate the crisis further. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is our way: support for families, decent work, social protection, combating poverty and sustainability of public systems. It is on behalf of these principles that we need the social state, which we have brought here the debate, and it is in favour of its defence that we will work for the maximum political consensus in this House. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u109	Mr Robão Rodrigues, Minister for Education, is now registered for an intervention. You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u110	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I come here before this House to declare myself a man on the left, orthodox for what they say, because I come here to defend the public school. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We are talking about public school, our national education service, and some of the Members. Members are automatically excited, screaming, pernilitating, even angry. When they hoped that she, our public school, would fail, she herself, perishing, all our workers, public servants, teachers, educators, technical assistants, Portuguese gestal interpreters, all those who worked in public school, did not fail, said "present" and worked for social cohesion and, with pride, for everything to work. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Our public school said 'present' in each neighborhood, said 'present' in each council and, with humility, without absolute certainty and irrevocable dogmas, always with focus and perseverance, showed, also in this period, the renewed proof, in this democratic Portugal and in this European Portugal, that the public school is without doubt, Mrs. Members, the only guarantor of social ascension, the only guarantor of a true instrument of equity. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[IL rice.]] And don't laugh, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, because this is true! So we want it, the public school wants it, the public school wants it, our education system wants it, and that is how we will do it: promoting social justice through public school. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I myself stand at risk with the speeches of some of the Members. Ladies and gentlemen. I, who have not studied political science, who am not a deep acquaintance of what liberalism says or liberal ideas, can say that if I had time and I was a contributor to any Wikipedia, I would say that the crisis has also shown that liberals who are now critical of public services and public school as a collective response to common needs... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... are exactly the same as here, this afternoon, they come to call for public funding as a collective response to the particular needs of private interests. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs Ofélia Ramos is not here anymore. Shakespeare had Hamlet write a letter to Ophelia, Fernando Pessoa wrote a letter to Ophelia himself. Mrs. Member, if you're listening to me, I'll write you a letter myself,... [[PS laughter.]] ...because the intervention he did corresponded to the caretaker's vision in his splendor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u111	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u112	He said here that he valued the non-state dimension of responding to the difficulties of the most deprived in order not to have to admit — I would say, in order to be able to devalue — the importance of public services. And that cannot be done, especially when our public servants, who are doing public services, have responded so well to this real calamity. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This was perhaps the most profound collective proof that our community has already faced in democracy and the educational community has been an interpreter, as perfect as possible, of this collective test; I would say more, it has been remarkable, it has been relevant, it has been positive and they, those I have enumerated, have been the true real real practitioners, the true culprits of all that we have done, also through the public school. It is also important to talk here today about all that we have done: the autonomy we gave to schools, the flexibility, the serious wager in school social action, the serious wager also in inclusive education, so that we could get here and our school, in particular our public school, if we could prove more resistant, more resilient, more winning, so that we could confine ourselves and, still, we could say that the valuable school, which had to continue to learn and teach, that it had to have its social role,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... functioning to receive the children of essential workers and to give tens of thousands of meals, every day, to whom you don't have to eat. The school has also come today to say that it is worth it and is now defining to help our finances, our economies, but above all, in order to help each one of our students every day. So I wanted to tell you, ladies and gentlemen. Members — and this is really important to me — that the public school has proved today that we cannot fail it, because the public school, above all, has not failed us during this period. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u113	The Bureau recorded the inscriptions of five Mrs. Members to ask for clarification, but the Minister of Education has no time to answer. So either someone gives time to the government or the questions will be asked and they will stay in the air.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u114	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u115	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u116	For an appeal to the Bureau, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u117	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u118	Mr. President, one of the five Mrs. Members who had questions to ask the Minister of Education are from the PSD. Unfortunately, the government has mismanaged time...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u119	Mr President, go straight to the matter, if you please.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u120	The point is that we are frustrated that we cannot speak to Mr. Minister,... [[Oh!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u121	... above all after this juicy intervention, in which it was even possible to make very inadequate exchanges and bacocco on an intervention made by a Member of my Parliamentary Group. And I will not accept that from the Minister! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u122	Mr President, this is no longer an appeal to the Bureau, it is a criticism to the Minister, who has the right to do but not using that regiment figure. However, the Bureau was informed that Mrs Joana Mortágua will begin to make an intervention rather than a request for clarification. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u123	Mr President, Minister for Education: We accompany the praise to public school and we greet all teachers, all schools, all students, because the public school response to this pandemic is due to them. It was in their hands that Mr Minister left to solve many of the problems that were yours. On the wide back of autonomy, he left to school the fight against inequalities, because he lacked a clear script on distance teaching, excessive work, evaluation problems, lack of material.... The school that solves! When there were no clear guidelines on the return to classes, and school leaders say the same about vague provisions, unsigned and undated guidelines, hourly charges impossible to reconcile, the school that solves! When contradictions and mistrust came, where was equality? For school to solve! When Mr. Minister said that the present and non-present faults ultimately gave lead, when students had to choose between going to all classes, not going to any of the classes and giving the year for completion or shambling for failures, where was equality left? For vocational education students who have not and do not have the opportunity to attend exam preparation classes and who are now doing internships, while their colleagues are studying for exams and attending classes, where is equality in access to higher education? The school that solves! The Minister has left this and much more for the school to solve, in the one that is the fight against inequalities. But what the IGEF (Instituto de Gesão Financiário da Educación ) has said is that, on the management that the school has to do, on the autonomy that the school has to manage its financial resources, then, there is already a hard hand. Today a circular of IGeFE was released to captivate all expenses that schools did not do during this pandemic period, which means cutting now in the school budget. Mr Minister, I would like to ask you — the question remains — whether it is captivating what schools have not spent because of the pandemic they defend and invest in public school. The question that stays in the air is whether this money that has now been captured by the IGeFE...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u124	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u125	...it is not necessary now—it is not in next year's budget, it is now—that schools can respond to their most deprived students, so that schools can respond to all the problems of inequalities they have to face. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u126	Mr Ana Mesquita of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u127	Mr President, Minister for Education : Education is a fundamental right and public school is essential, as it has proved precisely during this period. If an exceptional situation claims exceptional solutions, there are also exceptional issues that cannot become a rule. Mr Minister, the immediate investment and guarantees are required to ensure that everything works as it should, in order to ensure the centrality of present education, not transforming the tools away from school day to day. Specific measures are needed to ensure equality among all students. What the CFP proposes and requires is that the recovery of learning be ensured, as well as the support necessary to combat school dropout and failure. The number of workers needs to be strengthened: teachers, assistants, specialist technicians, administrative staff. It's necessary—and it really is! — the reduction in the number of students per class. It is necessary, Minister, to strengthen social action at school. This is the path that the CFP is going to take, and this is the proposal we have left. We wanted to hear that - it is unfortunate that we do not have time for this - that this is also the government's commitment, but here we are going to fight. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u128	For an intervention, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u129	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister for Education: It was with some stupidity that we did not hear him make a way, a solution that could somehow be considered for the numerous challenges not only to public school but to professionals, who, more than ever, are urgently appreciated in the educational system. The public school, Minister, does not reach all children and all young people. There are still many inequalities to fight and not all people who have stayed at home have the same means to ensure education. And, on this fundamental question, Minister, we have not heard a word and we will even hear an answer, because we already know that the Minister does not have time. We can ask, and we have asked, many written questions, for which we expect your answers,... [[Well, well!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u130	But he got into delirium! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u131	...but it is not just us who are in suspense, Minister, that are the children and young people who lack education and need answers from the Minister. Nevertheless, we would like to leave you some questions, because there has not only been a late referral of guidelines for schools, Minister, with unclear guidelines in relation to some situations, but there is also a model of access dependent on examinations that remained behind. The NAP recently brought an initiative that had to do with the improvement of the score, which was not guaranteed in access to higher education this year and which are a fundamental component for some of the students, and which, however, was plunged by the Socialist Party. We do not understand, Mr Minister, what an answer it is that it is intended to give these students, for example, that they will not be able to improve their score. This parallels all that path that has to be done to restructure our teaching system. But above all, and because today we are talking about a social state and law, do not say a man on the left to then not come up with solutions for what is really essential: to support the most vulnerable also in the educational system, because those, Minister, will continue to wait for your answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u132	Mr Firmino Marques of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u133	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The pandemic crisis of the COVID-19, which has settled internationally and, because of this, in Portugal, has exposed the fragility of the world to the defence of human beings and the institutions themselves. In fact, everyone has collaborated in the stability of governance and responses and we are all responsible for overcoming this crisis. We cannot ignore health professionals, safety professionals, firefighters, cleaning companies, IPSSs, municipalities, as we cannot also forget the area of education, where schools, teachers, employees, students and their families, never losing this fight, have mobilized themselves to an answer never seen in the area of education. Promised by this Government to invest in a digital agenda, a number of issues are now being raised. Increasingly a new school with new resources, will the government, through the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Economics and Digital Transition, finally bet on the qualification of the computer park of schools, proceeding to the one that will be a necessary technological shock after the hungry Magalhães? How has 2009 gone and the year 2020 brought us education at a distance and a new reality, involving schools, students, families and teachers, will the government meet in concrete—and, if so, in what way—the new digital agenda then promised? The need sharpens the engineering and, as a result, allows the proliferation of various and different tools in schools. The Directorate-General for Education defended, in the presentation of the platform to support distance education, a harmonisation of methods...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u134	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u135	I shall certainly conclude, Mr President. The Directorate-General for Education advocated a harmonisation of teaching and learning methods for each cycle, facilitating the concentration of students in digital spaces. So will the government finally make a leap in the quality of distance education in Portugal, as the leaders of public schools claim, and very well? When, how and what is the investment planned for this recognizedly necessary revolution? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u136	Mr Tiago Estévão Martins of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u137	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Minister for Education : I know that he never leaves us without an answer, so I allow him to raise a short question. In fact, it is consensual today that public school has been an absolutely fundamental axis in the State's response to this pandemic. But, said this, we need to have ambition for teaching in times of pandemic, and not just for distance learning, as mentioned here. The discussion we are having today is not between keeping schools reduced only to teaching at a distance or returning to the model we knew before. We must therefore be very clear: distance education is an emergency solution and, indeed, it is not a solution that replaces present education, so I would like to ask you if you share this view in the answer you are planning for next school year. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u138	Mr Paula Santos, from the CFP, has the floor for an intervention. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u139	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As you know, for the PCP, the solution to the health problems currently being addressed in our country is, in fact, the strengthening of the National Health Service and not the feeding of the private groups' disease business, which in the last two months have closed doors, have reduced activity. That is exactly why the CFP proposes the adoption of an emergency plan for health and we propose, in concrete terms — and we hope that the Minister, in her intervention, will respond to these needs — that, firstly, there will be the resumption of the activity and that, indeed, the health extensions that have been closed in this period will reopen and not be closed definitively. We know that there are health extensions that remain closed and they are fundamental to accompanying the population. Hire more health professionals, strengthen beds, modernize equipment, implement the National Medicines Laboratory, strengthen primary health care and public health are essential responses so that patients with COVID and patients with all other diseases have the response of the National Health Service, with quality and all necessary health care. This is what the Government is required to take all the necessary measures, and these are also the answers that we require from the Minister, who takes these measures, to respond to all these concerns and that the SNS has the necessary means for the requirements currently put. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u140	For an intervention, even before the end of the debate, Mr Moisés Ferreira, of the Left Block, has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u141	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Indeed, this epidemic has become too evident, even for those who insist on not wanting to see, that the National Health Service is absolutely central in the organization of our country and that the professionals of the National Health Service are absolutely essential for our daily lives. It also showed that the economic groups managing health failed in turn to the country. Some have denounced conventions with the National Health Service because "the times of the epidemic are not to get us there" ; others have closed doors, leaving the population completely. However, taking this into account, we are amazed at the publication of a government decree that again insists on the delivery of units of the National Health Service to private management. It doesn't make any sense! As they also do not make sense words that say that the conventions with the private will be increased even before strengthening the National Health Service. The solution must be effectively around here, by strengthening the National Health Service. The SNS will be, in the next few days, faced with a very great challenge: it must respond to COVID-19, resume normal activity, recover everything that has been suspended and even have to reinforce responses to needs that emerged with the crisis, such as mental health. To that end, it obviously needs a substantial increase in its budget and it has to be by 2020. It obviously needs a substantial increase in its professionals and must be by 2020. For example, the 8400 professionals that the Government said it would hire by the end of 2021 must now be hired in order to meet these challenges. in the same way, health professionals need very concrete answers, because they have a risk inherent in their profession and therefore have to have a risk allowance, they have to have a risk status and a penosity inherent in their profession, as they also have to have something very simple, which is an extraordinary mechanism to recognize that all professionals with VOCID-19 have recognized professional disease and therefore have to receive a 100% pay because it is inherent to their risk. These are measures the Left Block has submitted, in which we will continue to insist and we also want to hear the government about them. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u142	For the closure intervention on behalf of the PS, Mr Porfirio Silva has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u143	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: by promoting this request to the Government on the response of the social state to the pandemic, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group has brought the experience of our Members in constant contact with the people. Those who dedicate their lives to the common good, public services, where no one ceases to be cared for because they cannot pay, were the backbone of the Portuguese's ability to respond to this tremendous challenge. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This response capacity did not happen by chance, was built with successful policies that strengthened the country in recent years. The Socialists have not now invented an ad hoc scheme to respond to the crisis! For example, we did not expect the pandemic to reinforce the SNS on an unprecedented scale, nor did we expect the COVID to start working on a digital program in education. The strategic challenges of tackling climate change, of addressing the demographic issue with more quality of life for all and better reconciliation between family life and professional life, of promoting equality between people and cohesion between territories, of the fair digital transition, show that our commitment to this legislation is today more valid than ever. The health crisis and its socio-economic impacts have only made it more urgent. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Political options make all the difference in people's concrete lives. The previous major international crisis was taken advantage of by some to implement the political programme of those who said that we had to impoverish ourselves to get out of the crisis and that the loss of rights should be permanent. As they said, it was to go beyond the troika. Fortunately, today we have a government that knows well that austerity does not solve the crisis. It is that austerity is not the simple notion that resources are finite; austerity, as a political programme, is the option to cut spending and increase taxes to balance only public accounts. But austerity does not serve to recover the economy or to respond to the social emergency. This austerity would be despised by today's suffering and an early betrayal of future generations. Fortunately, today we have another government and another policy, as they show the lines already disseminated in the Economic and Social Stabilization Programme, which takes the articulated priorities of protecting businesses, protecting employment, protecting incomes and including the design of a national strategy to combat poverty. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, philosopher Daniel Innerarity recently said that populism despises three things that this crisis enhances: scientific knowledge, strong public spaces that resist the temptation of personalised leadership and the idea of global community, where we share threats. They are relevant ideas because they rely on the recognition of the complexity of the situation. The responses of our authorities to the pandemic were all — I stress, all — decisions taken in the context of great uncertainty, uncertainty about the virus, about the dynamics of the pandemic, about the management of social behaviors leading to a robust collective response. The country has adopted a method of consultation where political and social leaders have sought to make the best possible use of scientific knowledge available at every moment, to guide each other in this ocean of uncertainty and make the best possible political decisions. However, it is not long before the instant forgotten ones emerge, who will realize that there were certains where there were doubts, that they will want to be absolutely right three months later, when it was necessary to act at that precise moment, that they will want to make subsequent judgments of those who had to act urgently in an unprecedented state of exception. It is true that democracy has never been suspended. It is therefore desirable that there is debate and political contradiction and that it serves to continue the degree of consultation indispensable to the seriousness of this time. But the instant forgotten are out of this spirit. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : In a speech of this dimension, as Pope Francis said, « nobody saves himself». It is not a question of opting between rationality and solidarity. This is one of those moments where it is clear that only solidarity is a rational response.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u144	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u145	Today we have a government that knows how to defend Portugal in the European Union, a Prime Minister with an active, recognized and respected voice. Portugal has changed. Today no one is proposing to introduce in the Constitution a number for the deficit. But it is true that Europe also learned something from the mistakes made in the previous crisis and we also had a role there, because Portugal showed that there was an alternative, that economic progress must go hand in hand with social progress. [[P.S.'s applause.]] With the recent proposals from the European Commission, we have achieved an unprecedented degree of intelligent solidarity, which involves the mutualization of opportunities, risks and responsibilities. The point is that we need this for our own economic and social recovery effort. But it is not all done in the European front, there is a lot of work ahead, detailed programmes, negotiations to be carried out. In the meantime, there are those who continue to prophesy that the European Union will do nothing about what needs to be done, even those who continue to prophesy that it will not do what it has already done! Now perhaps it is time to leave the work of the prophets of misfortune and invest their forces in the much work that must be done to achieve what is proposed, because this is very important for the concrete life of the Portuguese in the coming years. We won't all be too much. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u146	To close the debate, you have the floor of Mrs. Minister of Health, Marta Temido. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u147	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On Tuesday, June 2, three months have passed since Portugal registered the first case of SARS-CoV-2 infection. We were on March 2, and the epidemiological survey revealed a recent history of travel abroad. During the following weeks, the number of new cases was increasing and the Community transmission was installed. At the end of this month of March, the country reached the maximum incidence of the disease and, in the first fortnight of April, the National Health Service reported the maximum number of hospitalizations and hospitalizations in intensive care units. However, it was more than 318 000 citizens who were considered suspected cases of COVID-19 and more than 31 000 confirmed cases. It was 1368 people who died of the disease, but more than 18,000 people who recovered from it. And throughout this period, Portuguese and all those who were in the country were able to count on the National Health Service. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But it was not only the health of the Portuguese who sought to safeguard this period. It was also the work, with the protection of remuneration during the prophylactic isolation of the self and of the child or of another dependent. It was also employment, with support for the company's treasury and the maintenance of jobs, by paying compensation similar to a simplified layoff scheme. It was also education, with strategies to continue online learning, complemented by television and with educational and social monitoring of students and families. In various dimensions, we have taken the principle of health into practice — indeed, we have taken it into practice — in all public policies. While there is no treatment or vaccine, the risks of a second wave remain, but today we see outbreaks of disease that clearly show everyone that the answers we need go beyond the infection with SARS-CoV-2. They are problems that claim and justify the existence of a social state, a state of solidarity based on strong public policies. Without surprise, I repeat, without surprise, the evidence of the results of this unprecedented crisis reveals that the health, economic and social impact of the new coronavirus is distributed equally in the population, affecting especially the most vulnerable. Those who are most exposed are, as always, those who live and work in more precarious conditions. The living conditions, labour stability and the social support network are almost always protective factors. But it is also the oldest, the oldest, who faces a greater risk of serious illness. It is true that it is still early to evaluate the performance of different health system models in response to COVID-19, but there are characteristics of the Portuguese health system and the constitutional responsibility of the National Health Service which will certainly not be neutral in the history that one day will be written. From then on, because the National Health Service has a universal matrix, reinforced by the new Health Bases Act, which ensures that all citizens living in Portugal and applicants for international protection and migrants, with or without their legalized situation, have access to the public health services network. Then, because the National Health Service, with its attributes of generality and free trend, not only integrates preventive, curative and rehabilitation care, but also provides financial protection against the costs of the disease, which was clearly evident in the exemption from the collection of all moderate rates in the context of the diagnosis and treatment of this disease, and also because the National Health Service has an extraordinary primary health care network, which combines a long tradition of proximity and availability to a large capacity of organizational innovation, and family health teams have undoubtedly ensured the home surveillance of thousands and thousands of patients. It could list many other dimensions that will not have been neutral in the results achieved, but I refer only to two more. First, the dimension of mental health priority in all its aspects, from prevention to acute and chronic disease, involving community responses, non-stigmatization and the human rights aspect. Then, the size of the network of public health authorities available in the country, based on the capillary nature of the technical intervention of the health authorities. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the ability that Portugal has had to respond to the pandemic is not the work of chance. It results from political choices, from concrete policies adopted in the last five years, in particular in the National Health Service, in public school, in employment, in the protection of work and in the distribution of income. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Let us imagine, for a second, a country without these choices, that the criteria for creating health units were only economic. Would there be a public health network? Would there be a network of health centers? Would there be a hospital network of open doors? Of course not. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The defence of the social state is a political choice, of course, but we must avoid at all costs the risk of only understanding its relevance in a health emergency context. We have much to do, much to improve, many answers to give, but we can take pride in the path that has brought us here and, above all, we have no doubt about the path we must pursue. We do not rewrite our concerns, they are primary health care, integration of care and response in times of waiting and with adequate humanization in a social state that is not a hat out of a naphthaline closet but rather a social umbrella that protects us all, especially when we need it most. And that's what the Portuguese out there know and don't forget. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u148	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall enter the voting period. We have recorded the presence of 210 Members, so we have more than enough quorum to vote. Let's start with Vote Project No 234 / XIV / 1. a ( presented by PS ) — I am deeply associated with the death of Carlos Barroso. I call on Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha to read this draft vote. Please, Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u149	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « Carlos Barroso was born in Lisbon on August 11, 1951 and died last May 21, 2020. Law degree at the University of Lisbon School of Law has also dedicated itself to the practice of law over the past few decades. Always a militant of the Socialist Party — since the 70s of the 20th century — has served in the José Fontana Foundation over the years and collaborated with the Friedrich Ebert Foundation. He was a very dedicated collaborator of Mário Soares, who unites him with family ties and with deep friendship and complicity. Since 1996 he has served as secretary-general of the Fundação Mário Soares, a reference institution founded in 1991 and linked to the personality, life and legacy of Mário Soares. To a large extent, it is due to the capacity of Carlos Barroso to manage initiatives and projects with social impact and notorious public interest that have achieved diverse and vast audiences and audiences, promoting the debate of civic and political ideas and values, the connection to literature and the arts, as well as the valorization of interdisciplinary studies within the context of contemporary history—Portuguese, European and global—, thus contributing to the affirmation of a culture of citizenship and full democracy. Carlos Barroso, together with Alfredo Caldeira, is responsible for the free digitization and availability of the Mário Soares Foundation Archive, democratizing access to funds and documentary collections, iconographic and historical memorabilia different from researchers and users around the world. Its way of being, discreet public life, only highlights its character of profound civic convictions and ethical, human and professional qualities that can be seen by all those with whom he lived and with whom he worked, within and outside the concrete scope of the Fundação Mário Soares. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its deep regret at the death of Carlos Barroso, addressing the widow and daughter, as well as the other family and friends, the Mário Soares Foundation and the Socialist Party the most sympathy. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u150	Mrs. Members, I inform you that they are present in the gallery several relatives of Carlos Barroso, including our colleague, Mr. João Soares. Let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We turn to the vote on the draft vote No 236 / XIV / 1. a ( submitted by PAR and subscribed by PS Members ) — Unfortunately for the death of Maria Velho da Costa, which will be read by Mr Duarte Pacheco.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u151	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « He died last May 23rd, in Lisbon, Maria Velho da Costa, at 81 years of age. Born in Lisbon on June 26, 1938, Maria de Fátima de Bivar Velho da Costa graduated in Germanic Philology from the University of Lisbon, still holding the course of Group-Analysis of the Portuguese Society of Neurology and Psychiatry. Fictionist, essayist and dramatist, cult and inventive, was co-author, with Maria Isabel Barreno ( already missing) and Maria Teresa Horta, of the New Portuguese Letters ( 1972 ), one of the most relevant and original Portuguese novels of the second half of the 20th century, who became a milestone in the approach to the situation of women in contemporary societies, exalting, through which Eduardo Lourenço classifies ‘(...) a virtuosoism without example among us’, the feminine condition and the freedom of values for women. The publication of the work, in which the authors boldly denounced the repression and censorship of the regime of the New State, followed a wide range of threats, interrogations and a judicial process that, despite having triggered an important intellectual movement of solidarity, national and international, the ‘ three Marias ’ were only suspended with the arrival of Democracy. Maria Velho da Costa signed a large work, which stands out The Common Place ( 1966 ), Maina Mendes ( 1969 ) and Casas Pardas ( 1977 ), which received the Lisbon City Award. They are also their Lucialima( 1983, Prize D. Dinis da Fundação da Casa de Mateus), Missa in Albis ( 1988, PEN Club Fiction Prize ), Dores ( 1994 ), in collaboration with Teresa Dias Coelho (Critic Award of the International Association of Literary Critics and Camilo Castle White Account Award ) and Myra ( 2008, Maximum Literacy Prize, Current Literary Prize of Writings and Great Prize of Literature dst ). His extensive work and (...) innovation in the field of Romanesque construction, experimentalism and questioning of the founding power of speech are worth the Camões Prize in 2002. In 2003, she is rightly grateful as Grand Officer of the Order of Infante D. Henrique and in 2011 as Grand Officer of the Order of Freedom. Since 1975, he has maintained regular collaboration in cinematographic arguments, working with Margarida Gil, João César Monteiro or Alberto Seixas Santos. In 2013, in the acceptance speech of the Literary Life Prize of the Portuguese Writers Association (the one you chaired), he said that « (...) literature is not only ‘an art, an craft’, but also ‘the word in time, in history, in the appeal of enthusiasm of what can be read or heard, the search for beauty or accuracy or the grace of feeling’. Writer with great ideological and critical awareness, Maria Velho da Costa never ceased to exhort and fight for the liberation of women, having been, until the last of her days, a unique voice in defense of her emancipation. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its regret at the death of Maria Velho da Costa, recalling the unique figure of the Letters and addressing to his family and friends the most sorry condolences. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u152	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us keep a minute's silence on these two regrets that we have just adopted. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall now refer the Bureau presidency to Vice-President Fernando Negrão. [[At the moment, Vice-President Fernando Negrão has taken the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u153	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. Resumption of the votes, we will generally vote on draft resolution No 286 / XIV / 1. a ( CFP ) — Recommends that the Government take measures to ensure the economic and financial sustainability of Community pharmacies. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of BE, the CFP, the NAP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira, the vote against the IL and the abstentions from PS, PSD and CH.]] Mrs. Members, we turn to the general vote on draft resolution No 122 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of measures supporting the Community pharmacy network. [[The vote was taken by votes to the PSD, the CDS-PP, the PAN and the IL, votes against BE, the PCP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and the PS abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u154	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u155	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u156	Mr President, for a time, in the vote on draft resolution No 286 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ), I did not indicate the CDS voting position, which is the abstention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u157	Thank you very much, Mr. In any case, the result of the vote does not change.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u158	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u159	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u160	Mr President, at the last vote of draft resolution No 122 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ), Mr President did not indicate the vote of the Arrival, which is in favour.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u161	Thank you very much, Mr President, although you do not alter the outcome of the vote. Let us now vote, in general, on draft resolution No 245 / XIV / 1. a (IL) — Close access to the medicinal product. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the CH and the IL, the votes against the BE, the PCP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and the PS abstention.]] The general vote on draft resolution No 246 / XIV / 1. a (IL) — For the sustainability of access to the medicinal product. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the CH and the IL, the votes against the BE, the PCP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and the PS abstention.]] We will generally vote on draft resolution No 213 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends that the Government develop the necessary procedures for the construction of the new hospital in Lagos. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of BE, the PCP, the PEN, the PEN, the CH, the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and 6 PS (Ana Passos, Célia Paz, Fernando Anastácio, Francisco Pereira Oliveira, Maria Joaquina Matos and Luís Graça), the vote against the IL and the PS, PSD and CDS-PP abstentions.]] We turn to the general vote on draft resolution No 280 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — For the speedy construction of the new hospital in Lagos. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of BE, the PCP, the PEN, the PEN, the CH, the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and 6 PS (Ana Passos, Célia Paz, Fernando Anastácio, Francisco Pereira Oliveira, Maria Joaquina Matos and Luís Graça), the vote against the IL and the PS, PSD and CDS-PP abstentions.]] We shall proceed to the general vote on draft resolution No 269 / XIV / 1. a (PEV) — For the urgent construction of the new hospital in Lagos. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of BE, the PCP, the PEN, the PEN, the CH, the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and 6 PS (Ana Passos, Célia Paz, Fernando Anastácio, Francisco Pereira Oliveira, Maria Joaquina Matos and Luís Graça), the vote against the IL and the PS, PSD and CDS-PP abstentions.]] The general vote on draft resolution No 414 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — The construction of the new hospital in Lagos with adequate planning of its future valences and integrated into the health care network. [[Submitted to the vote, it was approved, with votes in favour of PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL, non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and 6 PS (Ana Passos, Célia Paz, Fernando Anastácio, Francisco Pereira Oliveira, Maria Joaquina Matos and Luís Graça) and abstentions from PS and CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u162	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u163	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u164	Mr President, it is to be announced that a statement of vote will be delivered on the last four votes on my behalf and on behalf of the Members of Parliament Ana Passos, Célia Paz, Fernando Anastácio, Francisco Pereira Oliveira, Maria Joaquina Matos.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u165	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Let us now vote for draft resolution No 395 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Suspended word of TV Fest must duplicate the budget of the emergency support line for support to the arts. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected in favour of the EPC, the CFP, the NAP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and CDS-PP, the CH and the IL.]] We continue with the general vote on draft resolution No 178 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recommends that the Government requalify the Basic School Dr. António Augusto Louro, in the municipality of Seixal. [[Submitted to the vote, it was approved, with votes in favour of PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against PS and abstentions by 5 PS (Catarina Marcelino, Clarisse Campos, Eurídice Pereira, Filipe Pacheco and Maria Antonio de Almeida Santos).]] We will vote, in general, on draft resolution No. 152 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends requalification of the Basic School 2, 3 Dr. António Augusto Louro, group of schools Dr. António Augusto Louro. [[Submitted to the vote, it was approved, with votes in favour of PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against PS and abstentions by 5 PS (Catarina Marcelino, Clarisse Campos, Eurídice Pereira, Filipe Pacheco and Maria Antonio de Almeida Santos).]] We are voting in general on draft resolution No 322 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government urgently re-qualify the Basic School Dr. António Augusto Louro, in the municipality of Sixal, and disclose the schedule of asbestos fiber removal interventions in school equipment. [[Submitted to the vote, it was approved, with votes in favour of PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against PS and abstentions by 5 PS (Catarina Marcelino, Clarisse Campos, Eurídice Pereira, Filipe Pacheco and Maria Antonio de Almeida Santos).]] We turn to the general vote on draft resolution No 315 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government schedule and implement the urgent withdrawal of the existing fibration plates in the coverages of EB 2, 3 Dr. António Augusto Louro, of Seixal, and plans the necessary requalification works. [[Submitted to the vote, it was approved, with votes in favour of PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against PS and abstentions by 5 PS (Catarina Marcelino, Clarisse Campos, Eurídice Pereira, Filipe Pacheco and Maria Antonio de Almeida Santos).]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u166	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u167	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u168	Mr President, it is only to announce that, on the last four votes we have just held, myself and the honourable Members. Deputies Catarina Marcelino, Eurídice Pereira, Filipe Pacheco and Maria Antonio de Almeida Santos will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u169	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 434 / XIV / 1. a (BE) — Ecological transition: response to the pandemic, social and economic crisis. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the CDS-PP, the CH and the IL were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira and the PSD abstention.]] We will vote for draft resolution No 444 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government make a sustainable economic and social transition during the COVID-19 crisis. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the PCP, the CDS-PP and the CH were rejected, votes against the BE, the PAN and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the PSD, the ENP and the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u170	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u171	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u172	Mr President, it is to announce that on the last two votes, the PS Parliamentary Group will deliver a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u173	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We move on to the final overall vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on Budgets and Finance on the Proposal for a Law No 8 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Adapts the sanction schemes provided for in the legal arrangements applicable to investment fund managers and credit institution managers. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of the PS and the IL and with abstentions from PS, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH and MP not registered Joacine Katar Moreira.]] The final overall vote of the final text, presented by the Committee on Budget and Finance, on the Proposal for a Law No 10 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Change the Code of the Income Tax for Collective Persons, partially transposing Directive ( EU ) 2016 / 1164 as part of the rules on hybrid asymmetries. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, ENP and MP not included Joacine Katar Moreira and CDS-PP, CH and IL abstentions.]] We shall proceed to the comprehensive final vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on Budget and Finance on the Proposal for a Law No 11 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — establishes the obligation to communicate to the Tax and Customs Authority certain internal or cross-border mechanisms with tax relevance, transposing Directive ( EU ) 2018 / 822. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP, the CH and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u174	Mr President, I beg your pardon, will you allow me to speak?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u175	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u176	Mr President, it is to announce that, in relation to the vote we have just held, the PSD will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u177	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr Duarte Alves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u178	Mr President, I would also like to announce that, for the last two votes, the CFP will present a written declaration of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u179	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Let us now proceed to the general vote on Bill No 357 / XIV / 1. a (BE) — Emergency measures for micro and small enterprises. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the PAN, the ENP, the CH and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira, the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and the abstention from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u180	Mr President, I beg your pardon, will you allow me to speak?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u181	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u182	Mr. President, we assume that we were voting for the plenary...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u183	No, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u184	So, Mr President, I wanted to correct the vote by the Socialist Party's parliamentary group on Bill No 357 / XIV / 1. a ( BE).
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u185	And what's the correction, sir?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u186	The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group votes against, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u187	So, so that no doubts remain, we will repeat the general vote of Bill No. 357 / XIV / 1. a (BE) — Emergency measures for micro and small enterprises. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the PEV, the CH and the Member who did not register Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstention from the IL.]] Mrs. Members, having Bill No. 357 / XIV / 1. a (BE) has been rejected, in general, they will agree that there is no place for the following votes, i.e. there is no place for the speciality vote or for any other vote. [[Pause.]] Thank you for your agreement, sir. Ladies and gentlemen. The vote is now followed by the vote on a request by the NAP for a vote by the plenary in the speciality of the proposals for amendment and addition to the final text, submitted by the Committee on Economics, Innovation, Public Works and Housing, on Bills Nos 336 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Guarantees extraordinary social support for business managers, 354 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Ensures extraordinary support for the income of micro-enterprises and individual workers due to the reduction of economic activity by the epidemic of COVID-19 and 363 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Strengthens the protection of micro, small and medium-sized companies ( amends to Decree-Law No 10 -A / 2020 of 13 March and the second amendment to Decree-Law No 10 - G / 2020 of 26 March ). [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and PS and PCP abstentions.]] We shall then proceed to the vote on the proposed amendments and additions to the final text by the Committee on Economics, Innovation, Public Works and Housing on draft Law No 336 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ), 354 / XIV / 1. a (PEV) and 363 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN). Let us begin by voting on the proposal tabled by the NAP amending Article 1. that of the final text. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CH and IL were rejected, votes against the NAP and abstentions against BE, PCP, CDS-PP, ENP and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] [[It was as follows: Article 1 [...] This law reinforces the protection of micro and small business members by: (a) the tenth amendment to Decree-Law No 10-A/2020 of 13 March laying down exceptional and temporary measures relating to the epidemiological situation of the new coronary coronavirus — COVID-19; and (b) the second amendment to Decree-Law No 10-G/2020 of 26 March establishing an exceptional and temporary measure for the protection of jobs within the framework of the COVID-19 pandemic.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u188	Let us now vote on the proposal submitted by the NAP amending Article 26 ( 7 ). the Decree-Law No 10 -A / 2020 of 13 March, as set out in Article 2. that of the final text. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CH and IL were rejected, votes against the NAP and abstentions against BE, PCP, CDS-PP, ENP and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] [[It was as follows: 7 — The support provided for in this Article is not cumulative with the support provided for in the previous chapter or in Decree-Law No 10-G/2020 of 26 March, nor does it confer the right to exempt the payment of social security contributions.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u189	The following is the vote on the proposal submitted by the NAP for the addition of Article 2. o -A to the final text. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and ENP were rejected, votes against the PAN and IL and abstentions against BE, PCP, CDS-PP, CH and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] [[It was as follows: Article 2a Amendment to Decree-Law No 10-G/2020 of 26 March Article 2 of Decree-Law No 10-G/2020 of 26 March in its current wording is replaced by the following: ‘Article 2 [...] — [...]. 2 — The exceptional measures provided for in this Decree shall also apply, with the necessary adaptations, to managers of micro and small enterprises, so classified in accordance with Recommendation 2003/361/EC of the European Commission of 6 May 2003, whether or not they have a share in the capital of the undertaking, as well as to members of statutory bodies of foundations, associations or cooperatives with functions equivalent to those, which are exclusively covered by the social security schemes and which do not benefit from the support provided for in Decree-Law No 10-A/2020 of 13 March, under the circumstances and upon request provided for in the above paragraph. 3 — (previous paragraph 2).’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u190	We shall vote on the proposal submitted by the NAP to add Article 2. o-B to final text. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected, votes against the PAN and IL and abstentions against the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PEV, CH and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] [[It was as follows: Article 2b Transitional Standard The social security services, having regard to the amounts received, shall make adjustments which are necessary for managers of companies by quotas and members of statutory bodies of foundations, associations or cooperatives with equivalent functions which, until the date of entry into force of this Law, have benefited from the extraordinary support provided for Decree-Law No 10-A/2020 of 13 March.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u191	We shall proceed to the vote on the proposal submitted by the NAP for the addition of Article 2. o-C to the final text. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD, BE, PCP and ENP were rejected, votes against the NAP and abstentions against the CDS-PP, CH, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] [[It was as follows: Article 2c Prevalence Without prejudice to the powers conferred by the Constitution and by law on bodies of elective sovereignty, the provisions of this Law prevail over legal, general and special rules which otherwise provide, in particular those contained in the State Budget Act.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u192	We shall also vote on the proposal tabled by the NAP amending Article 3. that of the final text. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected, votes against the PAN and IL and abstentions against BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PEV, CH and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] [[It was as follows: Article 3 [...] The amendments provided for in Article 2 of this Law shall take effect on the date of application of Decree-Law No 10-A/2020 of 13 March and the amendments provided for in Article 2a of this Law shall take effect on the date of application of Decree-Law No 10-G/2020 of 26 March.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u193	At the end of the vote, in the special session, we proceeded to the overall final vote of the final text, presented by the Committee on Economics, Innovation, Public Works and Housing on Bills Nos 336 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Guarantees extraordinary social support for business managers, 354 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Ensures extraordinary support for the income of micro-enterprises and individual workers due to the reduction of economic activity by the epidemic of COVID-19 and 363 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Strengthens the protection of micro, small and medium-sized companies ( amends to Decree-Law No 10 -A / 2020 of 13 March and the second amendment to Decree-Law No 10 - G / 2020 of 26 March ). [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against PS.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u194	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u195	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u196	Mr President, I would just like to announce that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on the vote we have just held.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u197	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We move on to the final overall vote of the final text presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on Bill No. 99 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Fourth amendment to Law No 2 / 2008 of 14 January ( regulates admission to magistrates, training of judges and the nature, structure and functioning of the Centre for Judicial Studies ), providing compulsory training for judges on the Convention on the Rights of the Child. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PSD, CDS-PP, PAN, CH, IL and Non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira and Abstaining from BE, PCP and ENP.]] The final overall vote of the final text, presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, on Bill No. 194 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Amends the Statute of the Advocates'Order, revising the remuneration status of the official auditor, which integrates the respective Tax Council. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We move on to the final overall vote of the final text presented by the Committee on the Environment, Energy and Planning of the Territory on draft resolutions Nos 405 / XIV / 1. a (PV) — Information to citizens about best practices of waste deposition, such as masks and protective gloves, 417 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends to the Government the creation and wide dissemination of a communication campaign to raise awareness of populations for the proper packaging and storage of household waste, 418 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — National awareness campaign on the correct deposition of waste of individual protective materials against the COVID-19 pandemic and, where possible, the use of reusable materials, 424 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — To carry out a national information campaign on waste disposal used in the prevention of the current health crisis and 425 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government promote good practice in relation to individual protective equipment for the prevention of the contagio of the new coronavirus ( SARS-CoV-2 ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have come to the end of the vote, but it is still important to have a few votes. Thus, paragraphs 21 to 33 of the Journal of the Assembly of the Republic, I Series, concerning plenary meetings of 9 and 10 January and 3, 4, 5, 6, 12, 13, 14, 18, 19, 20 and 26 February 2020 are hereby approved. [[Pause.]] There are no objections, they are deemed to be approved unanimously. I would now like to ask Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha to give us an opinion from the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members who also needs to vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u198	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the request of Judge 4 of the Criminal Investigation Court of the District of Lisbon, Case No 9862 / 18.4T9LSB, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Deputies decided to issue an opinion to authorize the lifting of parliamentary immunity of Mr José Silvano ( PSD ) in order to be heard within the framework of those cars.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u199	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] No objection, we'll vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] I will once again give the floor to Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha's Secretary to do the favor of giving us more information.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u200	Mr. President and Mr. Members, according to indications received at this plenary session, participated, by video conference, the members of the PS João Azevedo Castro, elected by the Autonomous Region of the Azores, Marta Freitas and Olavo Câmara, elected by the Autonomous Region of Madeira, and Paulo Porto, elected by the circle outside of Europe, and the Members of the PSD António Ventura, elected by the Autonomous Region of the Azores, and Sara Madruga da Costa and Sérgio Marques, elected by the Autonomous Region of Madeira.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-28.u201	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I will now turn to the agenda for the next plenary meeting, which will be on 3 June. the first item consists of a 15-year debate with the Prime Minister under Article 2 (b). 224. the Rules of Procedure. The second point provides for the assessment of Petition No 631 / XIII / 4. a ( Committee of Public Service Users — CUSP) — They request the construction of a new family health unit in Upper Seixalinho and the assignment of a family doctor to all users of the Town Hall of Barreiro, together with Resolution Projects Nos 172 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Construction of health unit of the High Seixalinho, in the Town Hall of Barreiro, 215 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Construction of a new health unit in Upper Seixalinho, in the Town Hall of Barreiro and the allocation of family doctor to all users, 277 / XIV / 1. a (PEV) — For a new health center in Upper Seixalinho, Barreiro, and 411 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — The construction of the new health centre in Upper Seixalinho, Barreiro. The third and final point is the assessment of Petition No 555 / XIII / 4. a ( Portuguese Association of Landscape Architects - APAP ) — They request the creation of the Order of Architects-Parisagists. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, a good job for tomorrow and a good weekend. [[It was 18 hours and 38 minutes.]]
