ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, Mrs. Officers of authority. Let's start our session. [[It was 10 hours and 2 minutes.]] I would like to begin by drawing the House's attention to the fact that there is a delay in the agenda, since the second point, of which it states « advocacy to the Bill No 33 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) » is not an autonomous point but a point that belongs to the electoral votes at the end of the debate. So there is not a third point, having only the second point, that of the legislative votes, where the lawyers are included in the bill. Before we begin our work, the Secretary of the Bureau Maria da Luz Rosinha has an announcement to make.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall take up an opinion from the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members on the request for the suspension of the mandate of the PCP Member João Oliveira, which fulfils all legal requirements and is replaced by Vera Lúcia Serelha Prata, from 4 July 2020 to 3 August 2020, including. It's just, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u3	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Let us, then, start our agenda. of the first point is a debate, scheduled by the NAP, in accordance with Article 64 ( 3 ( b ). the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic, on telework. To open the debate, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The health crisis we are experiencing and the contingencies imposed by ourselves have brought us a number of challenges. Part of these challenges required adaptation and flexibility, and one of them was undoubtedly telework, which, despite being framed in labour law since 2003, had weak implementation in our country. If, for example, in 2016 we had only 800 people on telework, with the health crisis it was realized that, after all, telework can well come to be the reality for thousands of people. Despite the speed with which our country had to implement telework, the multiple potentialities of this mechanism were evidenced, but also their weaknesses. Still, in the context of the emergency that the country has gone through, we can even say that if it had not been for telework, the economy and the country would have paralyzed. But when we bring this issue back to debate, we challenge each one of us. Members and each of the Members to ask, from the outset, a question to themselves: should the country view telework as an exception in times of crisis or should, in fact, make a reflection and view telework as a solution to the present and the future? Before the crisis, the NAP and other telework advocates argued that it could contribute to greater flexibility in time management, a lower waste of time in travel to the workplace, a greater reconciliation between professional, family and leisure life, a better quality of life, as well as an increase in personal well-being and satisfaction. With better time management and the time I gain from the need for travel, the gains in local trade and proximity will be evident. In addition, with more people in residential areas, they inevitably become safer. Before the crisis, we also said that telework would increase productivity due to greater autonomy and motivation. During the period of confinement, telework not only allowed companies to continue to work as it brought an increase of 45 % of the workload and implicitly productivity. Before the crisis, the NAP and the telework advocates said that this was also beneficial to the environment, since they would be able to reduce the house-to-work and work-to-house pendulum displacements, which would contribute to better air quality. This also means reducing premature diseases and deaths associated with respiratory and cardiovascular problems, diseases whose corresponding economic costs in Portugal represent EUR 17 billion per year, i.e. 8 % of national GDP (gross domestic product). Telework can clearly be an ally in the fight against climate change and in the promotion of health, and can also be a promoter of territorial cohesion, which makes so much sense in a country where 45% of the population lives in the metropolitan areas of Porto and Lisbon, although this country has been discussing how to attract people to the interior based only on exemptions from tolls. In a country where the percentage of disabled workers in the Public Administration is only 2, 4 % and in the private sector 0, 51 %, and if, in any circumstances, we are called upon to find solutions that safeguard jobs, in the case of people with disabilities or reduced working capacity, it is absolutely essential to ensure the maintenance of their jobs, and telework may also be an ally of inclusion. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, there is also another aspect on which we are called in this House to consider. For this debate, they are also called informal caregivers, people who often lose their jobs because they need to be at home, to devote themselves to the care of relatives who are in a situation of vulnerability or illness, thus seeing themselves as outside of professional life. in these cases, the possibility of working remotely, rather than seeing your job in question, should, in our view, be a right and not a mere matter according to the employer. This is a path which, through this debate and regulation, we can also take. This path would, for example, contribute to greater intergenerational solidarity, since, by allowing greater time flexibility, greater monitoring of older people can be ensured, maintaining their autonomy and thus avoiding early institutionalization in homes. But if the benefits or potentials of telework were clear with the health crisis, it was also clear that there is a set of necessary changes in the regulation and regulation of telework that needs to be discussed and analysed deeply, that is, if we want telework to be a bet in our country. in this discussion, we must not forget that there are less positive aspects associated with telework that should be avoided in the future and that were clearly evidenced during the state of emergency. Among the problems mentioned in statistical studies by workers are: the increase in working hours, which was referred to by 75 % of business managers; the difficulty in drawing a clear division between personal and professional life, which was referred to by 50 % of workers; and the lack of physical interaction with working colleagues, which was referred to by 45 % of workers. Employers also refer to the difficulties of exercising performance control, the difficult apprehension of company values and difficulties in managing mental health problems associated with isolation. It was also serious that some employers had used telework as a pretext for cutting some labour rights, forcing the worker to bear certain production costs of the company, or even denying the payment of food subsidies contractually planned. These aspects necessarily have to be guarded and resolved and show us, in fact, that the regulation we have is insufficient. Therefore, one of the main priorities of the country in the coming years, as the NAP defends, must go through telework regulation in terms of ensuring the right of workers to professional disconnection and ensuring clear limits to the provision of telework, particularly at worktime or worktime, among many other matters. But it is also essential that policies are created that encourage Portuguese business fabric to adopt telework, for example through funds or tax incentives. It is also essential that codes of good practice are a commitment to workers' rights and assume the social responsibility that we all have to combat phenomena such as loneliness, isolation, domestic violence or other social exclusion phenomena, to which we should not be alien, such as the question of poverty and material deprivation, which, in fact, prevent the realization of the fundamental rights of all and any one of us. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is precisely for these reasons that we have scheduled this debate on this subject. We want to challenge you to discuss the path that the country should take in this matter. We regret that the government is not present. It would be essential for you to be able to answer essential questions about the way in which telework is monitored during the state of emergency, the state of disaster and its transition to de-definition, particularly in the Public Administration, and also to be able to respond to the future, particularly in terms of digital transition. But the government is not here and therefore we will obviously wait for the Socialist Party's answers from those who have governmental responsibilities in our country. For the NAP, the path of regulation through collective agreements will forever drag the possibility of effective implementation of telework and the need to safeguard workers' rights and employers' interests. To confirm this, it is sufficient to point out that in 2018 there were only nine collective conventions in the country that dealt with telework and most of them only reproduce the provisions of labour law. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, with responsibility, we must be bold and effective in this matter. For us, the path should be to regulation, which should be translated into an effective code of good practice. The challenge is that together we will be able to find a consensus to regulate and encourage telework in Portugal, cautioning all the rights and concerns that have been discussed. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the legal framework in force, although currently in force, clearly needs more density. If we don't, this telework experience we've had no more will not pass from a mere pilot project without any future viability and we will allow them to run incomprehensible to workers' rights. The way in which the regulation is going is to give greater transparency and information so that the parties will know precisely the rules that will govern their new employment relationship. Obviously, we cannot forget, in this context, the clear right to disconnection, so that work does not invade private life. This is not an exclusive issue of telework, so intervention in this area should be transversal to other modalities. With the regulation, we want to ensure balance through a model that can be mixed, ensuring direct, face-to-face and periodic contact with the worker, the interaction of the work teams, ensuring that there is no loss of wages and ensuring basic aspects as an initial and continuous formation. These are the solutions that we think can inevitably be contained in a regulation, thus seeking to respond to a complex matter but which, more than ever, we need to adopt in our country, so that we can implement the so-called smart working, so that we actually have the flexibility to adapt to these times, also with the advancement of new technologies. Society has been changing how it relates to work and it is never late, on the contrary, to discuss the role of work in our lives and how we can effectively contribute to a happier and more realized society, a 21st century society that adapts and respects the rights of all. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u5	Six Members signed up to request clarification from Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, who informed the Bureau that she wanted to answer two to two. To make the first request for clarification, Mrs Diana Ferreira of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u6	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, I would like to congratulate you on the subject you have brought. The NAP had already made interventions on this subject in the past and the CFP has also expressed a number of concerns about telework issues, which in fact has legal framework in a set of articles of the Labour Code itself. This discussion that we do cannot be disconnected from the working reality that we have, which is a reality marked by exploitation, precariousness, abuse, harassment and arbitrariness by employers, by deeply deregulated schedules, by intense work rhythms, frenetics, imposed by employers, and also by rest times that are not respected. The current context that we live in, in fact, the outbreak, also allowed us to understand the feelings of many workers regarding telework. There are many workers who say the following: they have to work longer to fulfill their tasks; they are concerned about work when they are not working; they are too tired after work. It is something we cannot ignore in this discussion that we do. Madam Member, there are very specific questions on this subject that we would like to ask the NAP: How does the NAP assess the risk of reducing presence services and proximity to populations with 25 % of public administration workers in telework, as is the Government's objective? How does the NAP assess the risk of cost transfer to the worker, such as electricity, water and communications? How does the NAP assess the absence of work equipment and tools that should be assured and provided by the company? How does the NAP assess the risk of job destruction, how is it, in fact, already happening, with companies leaving the buildings where they are, moving to offices where all their workers will no longer fit? How does the NAP assess the risk of women being most likely the first to be sent home, to the ride of follow-up to the child, meaning backwardness in the achievements that women have been achieving over the years? How does the NAP assess the risk of confusion of the various dimensions of the worker’s life, which, in the overwhelming majority of cases, will work where he does his personal and family life? How does the NAP assess the risk of de-responsibility of employers in the field of occupational health, safety and health? And how does the NAP assess the social isolation of the worker, the lack of sharing with colleagues, the lack of exchanges of experience, opinions and experiences, the lack of collective life, the invasion of privacy that exists, in which employers are inside the workers' homes? Madam Member, we cannot ignore the society we have, a capitalist society, marked by exploitation, precariousness, where there is the huge risk of this being another tool for employers to intensify exploitation. To place technological development at the service of improving the living and working conditions of workers, but from then on reducing working hours. And this is another question: how does the NAP assess 35 hours for all workers?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u7	For clarifications, Mrs Lina Lopes of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u8	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I thank Mrs Inês de Sousa Real of the PAN Parliamentary Group for bringing this issue back to debate, because we have already discussed it. With COVID-19, we are all aware that telework has become general, even attenuating significantly the resistances of employers to this mode of work which, as you know, was often only used to reconcile family and professional life, most of the time by women. But let me tell you, Mrs. Member, that telework did not fall from heaven and it is neither a novelty nor a panacea for all evils. In 2002 18 years ago an agreement on telework was signed for the first time in Brussels. It was the telework that led to the first European agreement concluded by the social partners, even marking the European social dialogue. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, I would like to recall these facts because Portugal was from the first countries, if not the first, to include the possibility of telework in the Labour Code in 2003. It was the PSD government, in conjunction with the CDS, that registered telework in the Labour Code 17 years ago. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u9	I repeat: 17 years ago. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is an indelible trademark of the PSD. Madam Member, the PSD considers that the production of legislation presupposes reflection, analysis, debate and prior negotiation. Therefore, the PSD is not available to promote changes in fundamental legislation in a hasty manner, in response to media events or daily events or to produce a political and parliamentary effect. There are trade union and employers' confederations and there is the possibility that all interested parties will discuss matters in social dialogue and in society. The decisions must be the result of this exercise of listening to everyone. The PSD Parliamentary Group believes that only after a serious, informed and weighted maturity will we be prepared to decide what telework we wish to have in Portugal. Having said that, we all agree that the debate on telework is indeed very important. Today's telework is not the one we aspire to, as has already been mentioned here, because in many cases more hours have been worked than normal hours, due to ignorance, due to survival instinct, for fear of losing employment, etc. The vicissitudes and contradictions of telework begin to be evident. Therefore, before we start in the legislative exercise, let us let this matter be discussed and analysed with due depth in society, social consultation and then in the framework of legislation, if necessary. So, Mrs Deputy, I leave these three questions to you: do you think that telework should be treated as a face-to-face work in all aspects, in accordance with the principle of equality set out in the Labour Code? How does it provide for greater supervision of this form of work? Finally, in view of the lack of training of many workers in the digital area, indeed, marked in international assessments in this sector, how will this digitization and this form of work be done? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u10	To respond to these two requests for clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u11	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I begin by thanking you for your questions. Mrs Diana Ferreira, regarding all the concerns that have brought us, of course we are accompanying them. From that point on, I would like to point out that it was precisely because we made this reflection and because we consider that these are matters that we cannot go beyond which we have chosen to bring the subject back to debate, rather than to present a legislative initiative by means of regulation. It is precisely because we need to be careful about the issues which you have mentioned, particularly regarding inclusion and gender equality, which are extremely worrying that we should not, in any way, leave unanswered. I recall that the NAP presented, during the state of emergency, an initiative that not only aimed at having social support to be at home to care for children, but also for having another spouse in telework, which was not possible. Therefore, we fully monitor your concern. Another side of the coin, which we cannot forget, is that telework can be an ally of inclusion. Let's think about people with disabilities who have barriers to get jobs. [[Protests by PCP MP Ana Mesquita.]] in these cases in particular, it may be fundamental... [[Protests by PCP MP Ana Mesquita.]] Madam Member, I have listened carefully to your colleague and, therefore, I would be grateful if you would let me finish. It is essential that these people who are at imminent risk of losing jobs, even more than anyone else, be able to keep them, particularly through these tools. More: in relation to the question of the legal framework in the Labour Code, we believe that this legal framework exists, it lacks depth and density, precisely to safeguard that there are no obstacles in time, particularly through regulation, safeguarding essential aspects such as the risks it has mentioned, namely the question of the risks of jobs... [[Protests from PCP MP Paula Santos.]] You cannot take advantage of telework to question jobs. If we leave this in the hands of social consultation, and answer precisely the question that placed the PSD, there, yes, we run the risk of not having a basic code of ethical principles that guarantee the existence of respect for workers and that do not safeguard those who must be the fundamental principles for the implementation of telework. We cannot ignore the society we have — we agree at all — but, then, it is precisely for the legislator to make sure that when we have a new vacancy that implies that people go home, for example, there are no such problems, and that is only done by means of regulation. With regard to digital transition and equipment, this is a question that needs to be put to the government rather than to the NAP. For us, the axis and the pillar of the digital transition defended by the Socialist Party has first of all to be effectively guaranteed, because Portugal is not only Lisbon and Porto. In the rest of the country we also need to have network and access to work tools so that we can also require the employer, as it is right, to guarantee access to these same tools, which we think will be elementary, as we obviously need to ensure that there is no loss of rights, such as that of subsidies. All of this can and should be guarded by regulation. With regard to supervision, we have repeatedly defended through legislative initiatives an increase in the resources of the ACT ( Labour Conditions Authority ), Mrs Deputy. It is therefore essential for the NAP not only to ensure that there are such means, but also that, after that, there is no breach of the judicial system, particularly in the event of disputes, to give effective answers to workers whenever any kind of abuse occurs in these circumstances. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u12	To make a request for clarification, Mrs Cristina Moreira of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u13	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to congratulate Mrs Inês de Sousa Real on her intervention. The subject under discussion is the telework regime, which, not being a new reality, lacks serious discussion and certainly during the work of this plenary we will have important contributions that enrich the legislative process. However, this reality is much more pressing in the last three months, not only in Portugal as a little bit around the world, which has been surprised by a pandemic. Compulsory isolation from the confinement period led to drastic changes in the world of work. Many companies have driven telework in order not to stop their activity and many have been the services that have allowed us to become more comfortable in our homes, in confinement. Even if the issue is not new, it brings new discussions and new challenges to the labour market, which lacks evaluation, it is important to strengthen the role of collective bargaining in telework regulation, safeguarding the maintenance of workers' rights and making good use of the principles and rules applicable to these labour relations. The State, understanding the emergence of the situation in this pandemic period, has already opened a line of negotiations to ensure a demystification of legal standards on telework present in the General Law on Labour in Public Functions, with the aim of guaranteeing the rights of workers but also in the expectation that this is the way to be traced by the private sector in the context of collective bargaining. Of course, the International Labour Organization had already spoken in 1996 and, at the time, the concern was to combat the informality of work from home, which was often precarious and with social implications. The European Union, in turn, has also focused on this issue since the beginning of the 21st century, and in addition to combating this informality, it has brought together two more objectives : ensuring equality of labour rights and activation and maintenance in the activities of women who have decided to be « housewives ». In Portugal, the Socialist Party has already made a very important contribution to the policies of extending compulsory and optional parental sharing, allowing mothers and parents to have the right to share the care of their newborn children and thus opening up a pedagogical perspective in the future for the life and management of family life. This in the sense that both parents divide tasks in equality, either by their profile or by professional responsibilities, and can make telework a family reconciliation strategy, regardless of gender. However, there is a very relevant first question, which I would like to leave to Mrs Inês de Sousa Real: what to do so that a policy of gender equality and parenthood is underlying so that there is no risk of concealing the role of women in Portuguese society and in the world of work in the telework? [[P.S.'s applause.]] Finally, I would like to ask the honourable Member about the possibility of promoting options, always voluntary to workers, which allow reconciliation between telework and face-to-face work. In other words, allowing greater flexibility in the management of workers' lives and at the same time reducing the ecological footprint, saving time and own resources, and even better family reconciliation, but without neglecting the risks of social isolation, professional devaluation and invasion of privacy. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u14	To make a request for clarification, Mr José Soeiro, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u15	Madam President, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, I would like to congratulate the NAP on bringing a relevant topic to this plenary. It is a fact that the pandemic has made a part of the labor force—and it is important to say so because there is a very important part of the labor force that has never gone to telework or even to confinement—passed into telework, but also revealed the problems of a sudden and rapid transition. We know that this transition to telework has broadened the inequalities that already existed and expanded some of the abuses we already knew. We are talking, for example, about the prolongation of working time; of difficulties in reconciling with personal and family life; of the dilution of boundaries between working time and personal time; of the reproduction of gender inequalities and of the hierarchys of sexual division of work; of costs that have been attributed to workers themselves and that have not been borne by companies; of new forms of control by professional entities, up to the sphere of the privacy of workers. All of this happened in a country in which, as we know, the monitoring of labour relations leaves much to be desired, and it is even more difficult in a context where people are not at work or where they have moved to the domestic sphere. The honourable Member acknowledged that there are various abuses and identified some of these issues which I have raised here, but frankly - it seems to me that the first part of her speech has also revealed a certain uncritical disillusionment regarding the potentialities of telework. The honourable Member spoke of the need for regulation but, in the absence of a draft law or a concrete proposal from the NAP that could be discussed, what seems to remain of its intervention is a code of good practice, an expression which Mrs Deputy used, in relation to telework. However, in view of the scale of the challenge we are facing and facing, a code of good practices seems to be little, above all — and I do not know whether it will be so, Mrs Deputies — if it translates into instruments such as, for example, the internal regulations of companies, which are, as we know, an expression of entrepreneurship with workers. I would therefore like to ask you what specific legislative amendments the NAP proposes to regulate the work and to protect workers, because it will be from these concrete amendments that we will be able to make a more consistent discussion. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u16	To respond to these two requests for clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u17	Mrs President, Mrs Cristina Moreira, on the issue she has raised, I cannot fail to comment that it seems to us that there is a manifest inconsistency that comes to talk about gender equality issues, which are legitimate concerns, when the Socialist Party rejected the NAP proposal that allowed greater reconciliation between family and work life, in particular so that both spouses could be at home, one in telework and the other in providing assistance to the family. So when the PS is willing to follow us on this, then, yes, we can understand your concerns as legitimate. With regard to what social isolation may be, I would also like to say that one of the proposals that the NAP would like to see in this regulation is to ensure, for example, continuous and additional training in these matters, so that there is a contact, a mixed labour system, which is not exclusive to work but which ensures, periodically, the presence of the company, the contact with the work team, so that, in fact, the social relations inherent not only to work but also to continuous learning arising from these same working relationships, and of course, the maintenance of functional and direct contact with the employer can be maintained. As we have just mentioned, it is indeed a complex matter that lacks a deeper debate and a hearing of various sectors of our society. But once again, let it be left in the hands of social consultation seems to us to be a mistake in which we should not actually fall because regulation can guard up. When I spoke in a code of good practice, I did so in the sense of having a common basis that cautiously ensures greater transparency in the rules governing this professional relationship, rather than once again leaving in the power of social consultation which can also cause labour imbalances that will be incomprehensible. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u18	To make a request for clarification, Mrs Ana Mesquita of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u19	Madam President, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, it is not enough to paint rainbows and butterflies and to say that everything will be fine when it is more than predictable that it may not be. Ladies and gentlemen, the question is: is the door being opened to what, for what and to serve whom? There are things that do not depend on regulation, they depend on the opportunities for increased exploitation that can come to be served as a tray. Madam Member, you said that telework cannot be an excuse to destroy jobs, but we have to look at reality because in higher education — we are not going too far — it is from our country — there has already been an institution that has assumed that the telework will come to stay because it will be able to cut one third of the jobs. This is not solved by good practice codes, Your Honor! There are even institutions that are preparing something that they call a « classroom », i.e. recorded and reusable classes in several years, in several courses, in several institutions, paid to the piece. Madam Member, this is the total atomization of the working relationship, the total precariousness of the working relationship, the destruction of numerous jobs! Mrs. Deputy, you just came here to talk about smart working. We ask whether it will be this smart working or smart exploitation or, even better, whether it will be this, more than anything else, exploit « to the smart-smart». How can this be avoided with any kind of code of good practice or declarations of good intentions, which, indeed, we did not even have the opportunity to understand what they are, because in practice, there was no clear proposal from the NAP that would allow us to even know what we are talking about? Oh, my God! Madam Member, what we say is the following: if it is to prevent working relationships, no; if it is to increase exploitation, no; if it is to intensify working rhythms, no; if it is to invade privacy, no; if it is to do more unpaid work parcels, no! So in the face of the lack of concrete NAP proposals, what we have is reality. The reality is what summons us, and it is what the NAP has to answer. What does the NAP have to say about these specific exploitative cases and how can they be avoided? We know that they cannot be avoided, because good practices and good intentions are full hell. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u20	To make a request for clarification, Mr João Pinho de Almeida, of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u21	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, I would like to congratulate the NAP on this schedule and to bring this issue back to debate. The CDS considers this to be a very important issue, it was the first party to bring it to the Assembly of the Republic in 2016. Therefore, we understand that it is a debate that makes sense but deserves, in the case of this NAP agenda, three questions: one on form, one on context and one on object. On the question of form, the NAP chose to make an agenda without initiatives and this, from a formal point of view, naturally makes it difficult to discuss. I have listened to the honourable Member very carefully, during her initial speech, who said that they did not want to condition the debate because it was important, for example — and we agree — that the Government should regulate matters which are already part of labour legislation. But one of the instruments we have available from the point of view of the parliamentary initiative is the draft resolution. The honourable Member could have submitted on behalf of the NAP a draft resolution saying how the NAP believes that existing legislation should be regulated to effectively implement what they are defending. If we do not exist from the point of view of the way, we have this difficulty in this debate. Then, on the question of context, I want to ask you another question. Is it clear that the reality of the pandemic and adaptation to the pandemic has brought increasing importance to the discussion of these types of forms of work, but does it not understand that we are already on the verge of disconnecting from what is exclusively this experience and starting for a more general discussion? The worst thing we can do for a regime, even above innovation, is make it totally conditional on the extraordinary reality that we live and do not open horizons, considering it not an exceptional reality but what must be a permanent reality. We're going to the third question, that of the object. from our point of view, the first very important question is to distinguish smart working telework, to distinguish what is exclusively work at a distance, which is a form of work, which, for us, should be what is at stake in this discussion and which is much more important. I speak of a reconciliation between different forms of work performance, presence and distance, for example, the possibility of working hours being divided between face performance and distance performance, one week of work being able to be divided between face work and work distance. Does the honourable Member not consider that from the point of view of content too, what is this kind of discussion that we have to do to effectively achieve in Portugal what, from the point of view of the CDS, is the objective: a form of work that does not harm companies and that, above all, improves the quality of life of families? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u22	To respond to these two requests for clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u23	Madam President, Mrs Ana Mesquita, on the issues you have raised, it seems to me that she works here in a misunderstanding and also in some ideological prejudice. The telework is already provided for in the law, the Labour Code already provides for it, and therefore all the troupels you have mentioned can unfortunately happen with or without regulation. What we want with this debate and with regulation is precisely to prevent that from happening.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u24	What about the dismissal? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u25	I give you two very clear examples. With regard to higher education, since it pointed out this concern, the NAP presented, within the Supplementary Budget, a proposal to combat precariousness in higher education, to resolve precisely this situation, but also through regulation, incentives can be created for companies to be linked to a need to maintain jobs and thus have no harmful practices for workers.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u26	But the jobs go away!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u27	Mr. João Pinho de Almeida, with regard to what he said, we obviously agree with some of the issues he pointed out, particularly with the solution of a mixed regime, between the presence and the telework, because we believe that it balances the different interests. With regard to the issues you have pointed out about the form, we disagree, because it is not the legislating trend, often even excessive, which must lead to a deeper debate, which has to happen, on a complex subject. That is what we intend to do here today. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u28	Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Green Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u29	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by congratulating the NAP for bringing to the debate such an important and current issue, because indeed the public health situation caused by the pandemic we are living has brought the debate around telework to the agenda. In fact, as we have all certainly been aware over the past few months, telework has been in a certain way a mechanism of recourse or a sporadic solution found by workers and employers to try to minimize the effects of the health crisis that still stands over us. In fact, although telework is provided for in labour law, in particular in the Labour Code, more specifically in Articles 166. o 171. the sudden and more justifiable fear on the part of workers, in the face of the urgent and imperative need to minimize the spread of COVID-19, led many workers to accept telework without placing any obstacles or reservations, even abdicating rights enshrined in the same rules of the Labour Code. It happens that the insight of many large companies, in the face of the public health situation, has resulted in a push for some labour costs, which were from employers, for workers. We refer not only to costs with working instruments, such as means of communication, internet and telephone, installation and maintenance, but also to energy and water bills, among others, which inevitably increased value given the increase in consumption, thus bringing new and unexpected charges to workers. However, in some cases — which are not so few — there was still a use of the situation to withdraw rights to those who work, such as the food allowance or even the transport allowance. In other words, the push of many telework workers was not by many employers only one way to combat the virus, it was, above all, a way to reduce expenditure on the means of production and also to withdraw rights. Many companies, taking advantage of the moment they lived and the need to ensure the safety of people through confinement, sought to minimize their burdens. The Greens therefore consider that the discussion on telework must be carried out with caution, bearing in mind all its varied implications. It is that if telework was the quickest and most possible solution to the pandemic, we have many doubts that it can represent an advance in the world of work. In fact, telework individualizes the worker, removes social value from work, removes spontaneous discussion among workers, and these elements also have to enter the discussion. We cannot only look at telework as a response to the economic component of value, we must also bear in mind the social and social identity components that work assumes. On the other hand, work today occupies an excessive space in people's lives. Indeed, and contrary to what might have been expected, technological advances did not, under any circumstances, reflect the reduction of working hours. In the telework model workers end up working longer hours, since, at home, it is inevitable to deregulation of working hours, which causes doubts to the worker himself about his productivity, often ending up by conditioning him in the need to demonstrate that, because he is home, he does not produce less and, on the contrary, spares more time at work, the result of feeling the need to prove what he produces. Also from an environmental point of view, the advantages of telework are not as liquid as they appear. It must not be forgotten that the sharing of working spaces, in addition to being decisive in the social value of work, in the obvious possibilities of collective discussion, which do not run out in meetings with marked dates and times, also has advantages in terms of energy consumption reductions, in particular in electricity, which has advantages in terms of energy consumption reductions because much less energy is needed to feed common workspaces than several individual spaces, such as telework, with all the environmental impacts that, above all, the production of electricity power. The Greens therefore consider that legislation on telework provided for in labour legislation, particularly under the Labour Code, can be improved, improved and even more detailed, but there is a assumption that Greens do not abdicate in this discussion. We refer to the need to ensure that workers can perform their work in telework, be partial, be total, but always on their own initiative. In addition, in this discussion it is necessary to clarify the right to privacy, the form of inspection by the Working Conditions Authority, the provision of the means of work by the employer, the payment of additional expenses, the guarantees of participation and representation of collective structures, among many others. This is the collection of issues which, for the Greens, must indisputably be brought to discussion and which cannot be devalued and much less ignored around telework. For this reason, the Greens understand that telework cannot be looked at lightly and their discussion requires that all its implications be borne in mind, because, contrary to what some may think, telework is not only advantages, it is not only ease and therefore it is necessary to balance this regime in its real fullness and not look at it only from the perspective of the advantages, because that reading can result in a real tele-engagement and a tele-decreasing of the rights of those who work and to that end it does not have the rights of the Greens. [[Congrats from PCP MP Ana Mesquita.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u30	For an intervention, Mrs Maria Begonha of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u31	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : During the current crisis, as a direct consequence of the adverse effects of the pandemic, many have entered into an unemployment situation, many who have experienced a profound change in their working relationships, such as telework, and many who have benefited from employment protection and social protection measures. The importance of the role of the State and of a government which defends a strong State is absolutely clear, but it is also appropriate to say that this crisis has opposed the thesis that work has lost its centrality in modern societies or that it has died as a form of collective organization of society. We have been reminded, for the worst reasons, how much work, our employment, is important to our social identities, not only for income but also for social interaction, for the value that collective work represents in the context of organizations and for their creative potential. While we are reminded of the centrality that work occupies, we keep in mind that our time cannot be devoted exclusively to working time and that decades and decades of struggles and labor conquests precede us so that there is a clear distinction between our private and labor life. It is undeniable that work increasingly enters the private, family and social sphere of workers, out of the hour, for ever more means and accumulating pressures on the reconciliation between personal and professional life. The unbreakable right to privacy has never been as relevant nor is its defense as urgent as today, during this 4th. the technological revolution we live. It is also clear that working rights are not a problem that technology or telework have invented with regard to the violation of working hours or privacy. They are not new problems, but they intensify and accelerate during this pandemic, proving the need for new solutions to enshrine the right to disconnect. A growing dematerialization of work and the advancement of technology has made it possible to resort globally to solutions such as distance teaching or telework and does not devalue its impact on mitigating the country's confinement and paralysis, on the contrary. But there is a balance to be found between the opportunity and the potential that these new resources have to mitigate distances and even inequalities, the increasing role that can come to play in the institutions and organizations and their limits. We have been confronted with numerous examples that this pandemic, like any other crisis, although of different origin, reproduces inequalities and the reality experienced in the face of telework is no exception. The Socialist Party has set in its Government Programme the objective of enhancing the use of telework because, for many, it can precisely be a way of reconciling work and other objectives, whether they are family, civic or simple leisure, representing an advance in their quality of life. Many who have lived it wish you would come to stay and find an innovative opportunity at telework to produce or create. That's why the worker's will, to us, is the key to the success of telework. Many of those who wish to do so are therefore able to recreate an environment or workplace from home where they feel that their safety and health are not violated and have gathered the living conditions that allow them to work from home. But health and safety issues at the workplace cannot give up the discussion of telework legislation options or the collective bargaining process, because many also do not meet these conditions. The reality of telework also puts the poor housing or even mental health conditions naked to pursue a telework regime that intensifies isolation and reproduces inequalities and material difficulties. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The PS has already defended him about the school at a distance, where we recognize him the merits but not as a preferential regime. The same parallel can be found in telework, which has its limits, but also a positive potential, for example, for the emancipation of Portuguese youth. To speak of the real emancipation of young people is always to defend that everyone and everyone can realize how and where they want, but, as we know, a deep inequality persists in the face of a very broad set of young people who suffer the double penalty of living in the context of the country's interior, where the shortage of jobs and opportunities is even more intense. Incentive programmes for recruitment and work within the telework system of the Economic and Social Stabilization Programme are an important and decisive step and one of the best examples of how telework can reduce inequalities. In conclusion, I would like to express the importance of regulating telework for the Socialist Party, consistent with what we have always defended, not only during this pandemic period and the months to be followed by recovery, but throughout the legislature : to continue to defend workers, not confusing different innovations and working modalities with flexibility, deregulation or loss of rights. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u32	Mrs Maria Begonha has three requests for clarification. How do you want to answer?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u33	Together, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u34	You then have the floor to ask for clarification, Mrs Bebiana Cunha, from the Parliamentary Group of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u35	Madam President, Mrs Maria Begonha, first of all, I want to say that we recognize that the Socialist Party has proposals in this area, but we would also like to remember that, as you mentioned, this matter was in the 2019 Election Programme of the Socialist Party but was also in the 2015 Election Programme. So we ask ourselves: if it were not for this health crisis, if it were not for this health crisis, would the Socialist Party actually move forward with some telework proposals? We would like to say that we consider the government's goal to be positive at the level of public administration, but the truth is that in the exceptional context we live there were not the conditions necessary to ensure proper telework for public administration workers. We gave a very specific example in education, in which there was the case of Professor Silvia who had to climb the mountain in order to learn distance by lack of means. The fact is that in education, for example, we believe that the government has been pushing with its belly to solve the problems of digital transition, because it could already have solved them with the inter-municipal communities, with the metropolitan areas and with the municipal chambers, but it pushed the problem for the next school year. So we ask, Mrs Member : what is the commitment that the Socialist Party will make to ensure that families have tools to be in telework and children also have digital tools or means to learn at a distance? I would also like to say, Mrs Deputies, that the digital transition will not be made by decree, that the country does not have all the same reality, either in access to networks or in the fact that employers do not have all the same capacity to guarantee work tools. So we would like to ask the Socialist Party how it intends to solve the problems we all know exist at the level of telework. Is it by specific regulation? Is it because of the collective contract? Is it by amendment to the Labour Code? Finally, I ask you whether you can give us information on the plans under way at the level of social consultation. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u36	In order to make requests for clarification, Mrs Germana Rocha, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u37	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Mrs Maria Begonha, if there is anything in which we certainly agree in this debate is that this pandemic reality has demonstrated the ability that the Portuguese, the workers in particular, had to reinvent, quickly adapting to this new reality in which the telework regime has taken a fundamental role, even when the workers lack the most suitable means to do so from their homes, in a complex family context with the simultaneous course of distance education, in a very demanding confinement scenario in the reconciliation of personal, family and professional life. These are more than enough reasons for progress on telework with safe steps, in dialogue with the Somali partners, which do not have a superficial analysis but rather a rigorous and realistic balance sheet, in particular with regard to public administration workers, through an evaluation of the performance level and the effective conditions in which this work regime has been and is being developed, in the current context in which we find ourselves. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Government, in the Economic and Social Stabilization Programme, sets the goal of having at least 17 000 public servants in telework until the end of the legislature. Now, what we need to know is how we have reached this goal, what criteria we have used and what means we will achieve this whole process of intentions.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u38	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u39	If the intention is to put the Public Administration as an example of telework, this will only be possible through real investment in the training and motivation of its workers, through a clear definition of the objectives to which adequate and transparent follow-up of their compliance, beyond, of course, the provision of the means necessary to achieve these same objectives by workers who lead to the provision of a public service of quality, with the speed and effectiveness that are required, so as not to occur, for example, delays of about five months in the delivery of the Citizenship Card, as was disclosed yesterday. Therefore, Mrs Deputies, what I ask you is whether or not the achievement of the objectives underlying this momentum in the adoption of telework, in particular the establishment of services and workers in interior territories, will be possible only when we no longer have a country at various speeds and localities without access to digital means, which prevents real equal opportunities, with inevitable consequences at the level of territorial cohesion and development of the country. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u40	In order to make the third request for clarification, Mrs Isabel Pires of the BE Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u41	Madam President, Mrs Maria Begonha, in the context of the crisis we are experiencing, in fact, the telework mode has become a rule for many workers and workers, but obviously not for all, especially the most precarious ones. In fact, this is a note that we want to note when discussing this issue. It is certainly not important to deepen the debate on this, above all because of the insecurity that many matters bring to the workers — and Mrs Deputies mentioned some — but it is important to be aware of what has happened in recent months. Recently, a survey by the National School of Public Health on telework and occupational health pointed to a tendency that there was a lack of support by companies to workers at the level of health and safety at work, but also at the level of the sharing of equipment and means of work indispensable to the development, in this case, of telework. So this is one of the subjects we need to reflect on in order to know how to answer it. In our view, we cannot move forward to a solution like this without realizing that rights and guarantees are given to those who work. The working hours, the duty of the company to shut off, the psychological pressure that is exerted more forcefully on the workers in this way of work, the working conditions at the level of housing or the means of work that people have or do not have at home, the payment or not of the meal subsidies, doubt that has already arisen during the last months of the pandemic, all this are examples of aspects that have been too often disrespected, precisely because of the lack of clarity that exists in relation to this matter. On the other hand, it has already been mentioned here, but not with the necessary depth, the myth of autonomy supposedly created by telework. This is a fundamental debate when we refer to this matter, because there is a very tenuous line of control over the time people are in telework or are not in telework. And this issue of false autonomy that is generated and created by telework is an essential point when trying to legislate or even debate this matter. So here we have a problem created by a supposed permanent availability that generates serious problems and that are not being taken into account today. We talk about psychological pressure, but also associated problems and even an impossibility to manage between working time and personal life. So here are created very perverse forms, when this mode of work applies without any rule. And more perverse is the case with women. We know that many teleworking mothers say work at night, after the children are sleeping, which intensifys weariness because it has to be played with space that is often not the right one in their home, and there is no such exclusive division for the exercise of professional activity. In addition, this ends up increasing the social isolation of women, not to mention also the great wage disparity that still exists in our country. These are some examples, regarding telework, which make us note that this is not an unimportant debate, on the contrary. But it is also a debate that requires very concrete measures. She said in her speech that the new arrangements could not mean deregulation or loss of rights. But then I ask you, Madam Member, how does the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group intend to ensure that there is no such loss of rights and this deregulation, until we know how often the Socialist Party itself has made changes to the Labour Code that have been detrimental to workers and have caused workers to lose rights. How, then, does the Socialist Party intend to respond to the problems identified? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u42	In response to requests for clarification, Mrs Maria Begonha of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u43	Madam President, I should like to begin by thanking you for your requests for clarification. Mrs Bebiana Cunha, from the NAP — a party that has allocated this debate, of which we have to subscribe — the Socialist Party does not go to the pandemic to carry out its Government Programme or its electoral programme.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u44	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u45	In fact, we include the need for telework regulation in our Programme precisely because we agree with the NAP that this issue not only has to be discussed how it can be used, enhancing what telework can best have. I have given some examples in my speech. We fully agree that there are limits and also, of course, challenges in the use of telework and some of these limits and some of these challenges have been spelled out in the various interventions. On the one hand — and with this I also reply to the PSD Member — we know that either telework or distance learning also reproduce inequalities that already exist. So it's not the same for everyone to live a telework situation. For many, telework has a difficulty reconciling personal and professional life rather than being a more positive reality. Mrs Isabel Pires also mentioned the fact that this pandemic does not aggravate the situation of everyone in the same way and, also with telework, that it is more painful for women. As for your question about which goal in Public Administration we do not deny, on the contrary, that there are also programs and potentials in telework. in this case, there is the possibility of 25 % of public administration workers being able to switch to telework, listening always and naturally to the social partners. For the Socialist Party, there is no prospect of regulating telework without social consultation, without listening to partners, without taking into account the union world and, above all, the will of workers. This is valid for the Public Administration as it is for other sectors, and this aspect is fundamental to us. She also put some questions, as well as the PSD Member, about how to move forward in this model and also about how to move forward in the digital transition. As regards how to move forward in this model, I mean, ladies and gentlemen, that, for us, this important debate on telework will always be subordinated to the fact that there is no loss of rights, that there is no deregulation of telework. And in this case, I have mentioned some of the most important issues for us, namely: that there is the right to privacy; that telework, when used, despite its limits, is a positive step forward, and not a step back, in the reconciliation between personal and professional life; that it is also a positive step for workers who use telework in their area of creation, productivity; and that it is also positive for businesses, but above all, that it has the true will of the worker, this is one of the aspects we defend. I must also tell Mrs Isabel Pires that, as I said, telework must take into account — and any process of social consultation when reviewing legislation should take into account — the health and safety conditions at work. As we know, not everyone in a telework model can ensure, by various housing conditions and by reproduction of material inequalities, conditions to recreate a safe workplace at home or even mental health conditions, something that we are also concerned about due to isolation at home, this concern which, as we have already mentioned, the Socialist Party also accompanies. Finally, I would like to say to the honourable Member that, contrary to what you have said, the Socialist Party, in this legislature and in recent years, what you have done—and often also with the left—is to improve workers' rights and seek more labour gains, areas in which I believe we have made great progress in recent years, despite the precariousness and difficulties we all know still exist. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u46	Mr Pedro Roque of the PSD Parliamentary Group speaks for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u47	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Almost since the beginning of 2020, Portugal, Europe and the world have faced an unparalleled situation in recent decades, namely a global threat to public health that undermines social relations and undermines the economy. Under the circumstances, the pandemic has made telework a reality for many thousands of workers who have been forced to work from home. It was, and in many cases continues to be, a resource solution that allowed the economy not to stop because of the imperative need for confinement. We are all aware that, having surpassed the current public health environment, things will be quite different from what they were until their beginning. The usual business in this chapter will necessarily be something different. The increasingly widespread use of telework is about to last, not as a mere dossier, but as a form of businesses and public services modernize the organization of their work and workers themselves reconcile their work with their family and social life, giving them greater autonomy in the pursuit of their tasks. It also represents a greater opportunity of work for people with disabilities, something of fundamental importance in a society that is increasingly intended to be more inclusive. However, the practice of professional activity under telework assumes the existence of an indispensable requirement: compatibility with the professional activity performed. In fact, it is not credible, for example, that much of industrial production is compatible with remote work, at least in the current state of technological development. However, there are numerous other professional activities where this is perfectly plausible. If technological tools have existed for a long time, we are all aware that most companies have never or little explored this possibility. However, we also believe that this is a situation, both in the public and in the private sector, which will experience a decisive change from now on. It is basically the re-establishment of the old Lisbon Strategy of 2000 by the transition to a new knowledge-based economy. But, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what matters is that the amendment is not only quantitative but also, above all, qualitative. It is that, in the face of a gradual or sudden change of paradigm, it is important that they ensure, above all and simultaneously, labor rights, on the one hand, and business interests, on the other. It is in this balance between the parties that the labour relationship should always be built, in the pursuit of the common interest between work and capital, basically by the human dimension of the economy and development. On the basis of this assumption, it is important that labour legislation is properly adjusted to reconcile interests between undertakings and workers who exercise or carry out their professional activity in this scheme, either in full time or in part time. The Labour Code should be clarified, in particular Articles 165 thereof. o is 166. the, therefore, the adequacy of the labour system to the new realities of telework, in our opinion, should be ideal and desirablely discussed in social consultation, in order to reconcile interests protecting workers, while at the same time meeting business needs. Thus, in this chapter, it will be necessary for social consultation to proceed with a genuine paradigm change in a Labour Code built around a traditional working vision, which is still exercised daily by a worker in a face-to-face regime and which, for any reason, is also being teleworked. There is no need to adjust the legislation to provide for recruitment to work in telework from the start of its work, as well as the regulation of part-time or intermittent telework, scenarios that can become more and more common. in the same way, it is important to caution other factors, such as respect for the privacy of the worker and the rest and rest times of his family, and also to regulate issues such as working conditions, data protection, equipment and platforms, occupational safety and health, organization of work, vocational training and collective rights. All this without prejudice to collective bargaining has the ability to go further in detail, adapting telework to sector specificity, always in order to reconcile labour rights and business interests. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Many of the companies and workers have already internalized that they can work advantageously on remote platforms. If we dematerialize the traditional workplace and make it more flexible, we may be faced with a qualitative improvement in the ever difficult reconciliation of work with family life and, at the same time, break the peak of the so-called 'hours' and the prototype of a certain business culture inherited from taylorism and fordism, which, in fact, this same Parliament still maintains the old-fashioned tradition of the campaign for the beginning of the work, inherited from the industrial siren. This avoids unnecessary displacement with the consequent emission of greenhouse gases, while at the same time having a positive impact on costs for companies. The increase in telework can also have a positive impact and help on the environmental issue. Finally, as in any paradigm change, we are faced with challenges and opportunities, advantages and disadvantages. It is important to debate, without wheels, which is a strategic issue for our collective development. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u48	The Bureau recorded the registration of two Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen for clarification. How do you intend to respond, Mr Pedro Roque?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u49	I am replying together, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u50	To request clarification, Mrs Alexandra Tavares de Moura, of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u51	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it was with great pleasure that we heard Mr Pedro Roque's speech today, because the truth is that so far, despite the telework being registered, as today was recalled by the PSD, in the Labour Code, we knew very little about what the PSD was thinking about this area. In the PSD Election Programme there is no single reference to telework and in the debate that took place on May 27 here, in this Chamber, we heard say, by the voice of Mrs Lina Lopes, that the PSD thinks that we should have a broad debate of social consultation and that the PSD reiterates the need to have an Authority for the Conditions of Strong Work.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u52	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u53	Basically, it summarized the debate on 27 May on the issue of supervision. For the Socialist Party, the question is different: we include in the Electoral Programme and the Government's Programme the measures we consider appropriate and concrete in relation to telework. Does telework have any advantages? Here. Do you have any disadvantages? Of course it has, but we must start to debate so that we can enter the standard in a correct, appropriate and possible way to be used by all without, of course, encroaching on the rights of workers. For the Socialist Party, and because it is effectively in our Government Programme, defending telework is a way of defending the valorization and training of the Public Administration, it is a way of clearly combating the carbon footprint, it is a way, as is said in the Government Programme, to simplify the provision of work to promote reconciliation between work and family life, a way of increasing territorial cohesion and combating territorial 'discussion', making it attractive and ensuring advantages for functions that can be rendered outside the large population centres. So, obviously, we cannot compare what has happened now with what we want telework to be. This was an exceptional time and this measure, obviously, cannot be compared to what was verified during that time. But there is one thing we know: if in such an exceptional time, so adverse, when nobody was prepared we had the response capacity we had, what is it when telework is actually planned, designed and negotiated? Having said this, Madam President, the question that I put to Mr Pedro Roque is this: this is a process that is slowly building up, slowly climbing the ladder, what measures, what goals do you think should be applied in this legislature? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u54	Also to request clarification, Mrs Bebiana Cunha from the Parliamentary Group of the NAP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u55	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Pedro Roque, the truth is that this health crisis has brought a novelty to the Portuguese political landscape, which is the conversion of the Rui Rio PSD to telework and its benefits. The NAP cannot fail to welcome this change of position because, in fact, we could not anticipate this and therefore welcome this position. But, Mr, it is not yet clear how the PSD effectively wants to encourage telework. This is because in the PSD economic recovery plan it is said that they want to implement incentives for companies, but still this week, in the context of discussion of the Supplementary Budget, they have dropped a NAP proposal that would, precisely, encourage companies by reducing the contribution rate for social security by employers by 2 %. So, honourable Member, what we want to know is how the PSD wants to encourage telework, whether it really wants to do so as it points out in its plan or whether it is merely proclaiming, since it then leads the proposals.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u56	To reply, Mr Pedro Roque has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u57	Madam President, I begin by thanking the PS and the NAP for the questions that have raised me. I would like to say the following: The PSD, in its social action plan with regard to COVID-19, has a very explicit and detailed reference to telework and what it represents not only in the form of aid in the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic but also in what it can represent in terms of the future of work and the benefit, on the one hand, of workers and, on the other hand, of companies. Regardless of whether I would like to emphasise some kind of divergence here, I would like to emphasise the convergences, particularly between what the Socialist Party Member said and what I said. I did not notice that there was a substantive difference and I think it is important that there is this kind of consensus on a subject which does not depend on the will of the parties to be implemented, but which is a reality. It was a reality with little expression before the pandemic and became a reality as a dossier to keep the economy working but respecting the public health principles necessary to combat the pandemic and, as I said, the usual business will be different from here forward in terms of telework. Therefore, the responsibility of this House is to monitor this dynamic. Responding also to the Member of the NAP, what we are calling for is that social consultation, as a representative body of apparently antagonistic interests, but which has known, throughout its history, to put aside the initial positions and reconcile the interests of the worker, the interests of the companies and also the interest of the Government, while one of the vertices of this triangle, revise the Labour Code in this area and frame this new reality so that the associated problems — the right to disconnect, the reconciliation of professional life with family life and others — are properly safeguarded and that the economy can benefit from this new dynamic. That's what we're advocating. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u58	For an intervention, Mrs Marta Freitas of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u59	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: First of all, I would like to say that this issue of telework is really important, but I would like to point out how important the initiatives and proposals for a serious debate are, so that we are not here in a lull or an empty debate. Still, and continuing this discussion on telework, I wanted to say that this form of work was regulated in 2003 and has become a possibility brought about by the pandemic we currently live. It was a reality that was latent, being almost a mirage to citizens who expressed a desire to use this instrument available in Portuguese labour law as a means of flexibility in their work agenda. Since March, telework has become an effective tool when people are available in their work context. If it is true that, on the one hand, it has brought inequalities to certain socio-economic contexts, of gender activity and work content, overloading women, and even isolation, on the other hand, it is also true that it has brought opportunities for some more vulnerable people, such as citizens with disabilities or disabilities, parents and mothers of children and young people with disabilities, informal caregivers or those who need two to four hours a day to travel between their homes and their workplaces, among other situations that are not exposed here. Just as we Members of the PS Parliament have certainly received these requests in their mailboxes to review the regulation and continuity of telework. And we can't just look at part of the Portuguese, the vision must be in a whole and find a balance. That the atypical experience of this health crisis that brought telework to an abnormal context does not allow us to draw illusions that can penalize those who need this resource to expedite their daily lives, removing opportunities or possible rights to fellow citizens who look at this mode of work as essential to their lives. Debating telework is looking at inequalities, reviewing and correcting, but it is also removing what positively brought this possibility that opens doors to a quality of life and a sense of achievement for a group of Portuguese and Portuguese who also want to be represented in this House by the Members present. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Telework is not limited to the scenario of turning someone to their home, it allows them to engage in multimedia centers, in sharing spaces—such as co-works, promoting new contacts—or anywhere where access can even enhance the motivation of the worker, reflecting positively on his productivity. A good worker will always be a good worker wherever he is, provided he is given conditions and he feels motivated. Telework also allows the possibility of carrying out an activity anywhere in the country — centre, interior, autonomous regions — thus creating more employment opportunities. in another dimension, telework is also the possibility that, for only part of the day or week, this may be partial, allowing a new business culture of working time management that reconciles the flexibility, sometimes necessary, to optimize the operation of companies to the flexibility that workers need to manage their daily lives. And, even for some, it may be possible to go to various therapies and treatments or even be a less well day without this being the result of loss of income in the lives of these people, whose condition is already unfavourable by itself. The development of the Green Paper on the Future of Work, to be developed by the Government, will serve as a basis for the reflection of this topic of telework both in the perspective of the pandemic times in which we live, either in the light of technological progress, the developments in information and communication technologies and the expansion of digital platforms, which are rapidly transforming work as we know it. It is therefore desirable that together — parties, governments, social partners and citizens — we should be able to see this debate on telework as an opportunity to put all the variables on the table so that a balanced and inclusive solution can be found for all Portuguese and Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u60	For an intervention, you have the floor of Mrs.Cristina Rodrigues, not registered with the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u61	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In recent months, there has been an exponential increase in the use of telework and benefits for workers, employers and the environment, but there have also been doubts as to workers' rights. We agree with the relevance of the topic, but there are issues that need to be guarded, otherwise it may be contributing to one of the greatest scourges of our society: working precariousness. The increase in precariousness increases the moral harassment that workers can be subjected to. Fear of loss of employment in informal work, false green receipts and temporary employment contracts, as well as increased working time, lead to harassment. For example, one of the most common ways of detecting situations of false green receipts is through the monitoring of ACT. However, the fact that workers are not at work but at home makes this supervision more difficult, leaving workers in a situation of greater vulnerability. On the other hand, it is not permissible, except in the circumstances expressly provided for in relation to supplementary work, for workers to exceed the number of hours per day, to be disturbed outside the working hours, to be malvised because they are not permanently available. Clear limits should therefore be established for the provision of work, particularly at the time level, guaranteeing the right to professional disconnection and to the compatibility of the personal and family life of workers with their professional life. In short, it is important to note that no more practices of exploitation of workers are promoted, ensuring the punishment of offenders, and obviously it is up to public entities or public funds to set an example. Therefore, because this debate is also about working conditions, we have to know what measures the NAP will present to promote employment, particularly for young people, and what measures it will present to combat the precarious links, which are the scourge of our society, such as the excessive use of temporary work and the misuse of false green receipts.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u62	Mr José Soeiro, from the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u63	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The relevance of this debate is unquestionable, but it will only be balanced if we refuse either the idea that there is nothing to do about telework, or the acrylic and classical disillusionment on telework. The National School of Public Health revealed in an investigation that 54 % of people who earn less than € 650 and 76 % of workers with schooling up to 9. the year they had to go to their places of work. On the contrary, 75 % of workers who earn €2500 per month or more and 74 % of those who have higher education were able to stay at home. In other words, telework, such as confinement, is not equal and reproduces inequalities. It was more existing in large companies than in small and medium-sized enterprises, it concerns some sectors of the economy, for example, does not concern housing and restoration, cleaning, distribution, transport and much of the processing industry. Many of the services and industries that serve as basic support for economic activity do not exempt present work. But telework was also a phenomenon of some workers, not all of them, and it was not equal in terms of gender. It is true that the speedy and uneven transition to telework confronts us with the need to think and intervene in regulating this form of work. It is true that the Labour Code is incipient and that collective bargaining rarely has provisions on this matter. That is, we have jumped to this reality without workers being properly protected by their forms of regulation. And there are very important challenges precisely for telework to be involved in multiple abuses — abuses in working time and in their prolongation, abuses resulting from the isolation of workers themselves, abuses in the invasion of the sphere of privacy and in the control mechanisms — and also in the enhancement of inequalities and sexual division of work. We are aware that, in Portugal, as the pandemic has confirmed, we are better at legislating than ensuring that the law is fulfilled. This was evident, precisely with the wave of abuses that took place during this period in respect of layoffs, layoffs, precarious work, temporary work, the imposition of holidays and, of course, telework.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u64	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u65	The solar side of the telework that the NAP brought here has to be confronted with the dark side, which cannot be ignored. In fact, it is very surprising that enthusiasm for telework is not based on options, data and concrete studies. The government itself announces 25 % of the public administration in telework — why 25 %? On what basis? Did you think of the risks? For example, have gender issues, protection of labour rights been taken care of? Nobody knows! But we know that the risks related to telework are identified. They are risks relating to working time, to a confusion of boundaries between personal and professional life, to a lack of clear time, to the dilution of beacons that allow, precisely, to control working hours, permanent demands and employer pressure to prolong working hours, which is also clear when, in the survey of the National School of Public Health, the majority of workers, specifically 60 %, consider that they have worked longer than usual and 42 % say they are unable to relax from work to rest. In other words, telework can well be an ‘electronic collar’ and another factor in the digital obesity we are facing.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u66	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u67	But there are still risks of reconciling family life and working life. It is a perverse and contradictory sign that workers in telework could not have the support of their children and had to accumulate the work with the care of their children. We know how telework accentuates conflicts between private and family life and work and how it reproduces gender hierarchys, particularly with the referral of women to home. We know how there are risks related to the costs incurred by workers: 95 % of telework workers did not have participation of companies in relation to increased costs, for example in terms of energy; 72 % did not have any support to adapt their working environment. But there are risks of isolation, loss of face contact, the dimension of socialization of work and a fundamental factor, which is the organization, collective action, the guarantee of connection and representation mechanisms. Finally, there are risks of abuse, control and invasion of the sphere of privacy. Telework has opened up an unlimited new capacity of employers to control workers, through access to their private space, with the installation of computer programs that access the data, control the typing of keys, enter the data that are at home and multiply cases in which employers' control is done in a hidden way, which, in fact, the law does not authorize.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u68	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u69	I will finish, Madam President. This debate deserves Parliament's effort and legislative intervention in regulating working time, ensuring rest time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u70	Please conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u71	I will finish, Madam President. As I was saying, this debate deserves Parliament's efforts and legislative intervention in regulating working time, ensuring rest time and preventing the forms of hidden control by employers.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u72	You really have to conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u73	Unfortunately, however, this debate has been held today, by choice of the proposers and those who have marked it, without having any concrete proposals on the table. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u74	The Bureau has two entries for requests for clarification, but Mr José Soeiro has no time to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u75	If the PSD gives us time, we answer!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u76	However, requests for clarification are registered. Mrs Helga Correia has the floor for this purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u77	Madam President, even if I do not have the Member of the Left Block to answer, the PSD is asking to leave the question.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u78	If the PSD gives me one minute, I'll answer!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u79	First of all, I would like to greet the NAP for bringing the debate to such an important issue as that of telework, which, in this period of disaster and emergency, was not an option for workers and employers, but rather an imposition. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what happened wasn't telework, it was work at home, because of the pandemic. There was no agreement between workers and employers, they had no choice but to stay at home in telework. Telework, according to the law, is much more than this. But we will not deny that telework has come to remain and that the pandemic has strengthened the importance of the matter, as well as the need to revisit the legislation. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we believe that this is a matter that should really deserve attention from both the Assembly of the Republic and the Government, but never ignoring the fact that we are talking about work matters, matters that involve amendments to the Labour Code and, as such, have to be discussed and discussed in the context of social consultation. [[PSD applause.]] The amplitude and impact, as well as the duration of this crisis are still unpredictable and unknown to all of us, but in an exceptional period like this, we cannot embark on political demagogy, we cannot move forward hastily with measures, without assessing the impact of this whole moment, because we are at risk of legislating in a hurry and being able to err. Mr Soeiro, although I do not have time, allow me a comment and two questions. The comment is in the sense of saying that it is at the time of the Left Block that unravels ideological prejudices and begin to value social consultation.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u80	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u81	A first question, in the way of challenge, is to see if the Left Block has learned something with this pandemic and is available to defend the pillar of social consultation. Conscious that we can come through a phase of building the country, in which we are all important and to which we are all called, a second question is to see if the Left Block is available to collaborate in this difficult task of saving the country. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u82	To request clarification, Mrs Bebiana Cunha from the PAN Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u83	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr José Soeiro, I would like to say that it is not true that the PAN has presented only the solar side of the telework, but it is true that the Left Block has only presented the lunar side.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u84	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u85	I would also like to tell you that it is precisely because of the problems that exist, that we all recognize, that the NAP considers that the current legal framework is not sufficient and that it needs to be densified. I would also like to note the following: the Portuguese Environment Agency admits that poor air quality causes about 6,000 deaths per year in Portugal, aggravates respiratory and cardiovascular problems, is responsible for many lost working days, contributes to high health costs with groups of more vulnerable people, whether children, elderly or people with respiratory problems. We know that at the time of confinement, there was a substantial reduction in emissions of nitrogen dioxide by 80 % in Lisbon and 60 % in Porto. We also know that the use of telework makes it possible to reduce the pressure on public transport and road infrastructure, but we have not heard the Left Block talk about any of this in its intervention. We would therefore like to know whether, indeed, environmental issues are relevant to the Left Block and weigh as a point in favour of telework and, more importantly, whether the Left Block is available or not...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u86	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u87	...to contribute to the debate of telework also bringing its proposals, responding to the challenge of the NAP. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u88	Mr Carla Barros, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u89	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD then closes this debate on telework and something positive is right now to register. It is, indeed, that in this House there are understandings, common points on the subject, which should be emphasized with pleasure. We also concluded that this way of organizing work already existed before the pandemic, but the pandemic has reinforced that there is a need to revisit the topic of telework. Although it has been introduced by a PSD Government, as mentioned above, it is noted that there is now a need to improve the interests of both workers and companies in this area. However, the PSD argues that the way to revisit this issue is that of social dialogue and collective bargaining, and we will not, in any way, abdicate this tripartite pillar, this healthy dialogue.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u90	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u91	I would like to leave a word — it is good not to forget — of praise to workers but also to employers for the way they have faced this challenge posed to them by the pandemic. The workers and employers did not decide one day, at the moment, that they all wanted to go home to work and perform their duties within the family, in a family environment. Don't! It was the pandemic that forced you to impose it! It is therefore appropriate to highlight this gratitude and, in essence, this compliment on how they were able to overcome, because there was no time for understanding between the parties. As my colleague Mrs Helga Correia said, this was work at home. It was not exactly telework as we know it and as we read it in legislation. On the other hand, there is one aspect that needs to be emphasized, leaving a note to the Government. The Government is not here, but the Socialist Party will be an excellent issuer, and a receiver, in this case, of what I will say: the Socialist Party cannot create too many flowers around telework, it cannot create a kind of noise, so let us say, even pleasant to entertain Portuguese people, because there are many problems, many needs around the working world related to the workers and answers that companies also need — in fact, my colleague, Germana Rocha well mentioned the way in which public services are delayed in the responses to citizens and businesses, giving the example of the delay in delivering the Citizen card from the citizen's shops. It is therefore important not to forget that telework cannot be used to cover up the essential problems of the past, but also the time of pandemics. Ladies and gentlemen. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that for the PSD it is very important that public services and workers realize that this issue of telework must always have as a common good and as an essential pillar the response in time and time to citizens and businesses.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u92	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u93	Always, always the public interest, nothing against telework. [[PSD applause.]] But citizens and businesses must receive the answers to their requests in time and time. On the private side, also reinforcing the intervention of my colleague Mr Pedro Roque, I will say that workers and employers have to achieve the best possible understanding...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u94	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u95	I will finish, Madam President. As I was saying, workers and employers have to achieve the best understanding because not all companies adapt and adapt to telework and not all workers want and adapt to telework. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u96	For an intervention, Mr Luís Testa, of the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u97	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The subject that is brought to us today is an important issue in the world of work and in the world of national organisations. The country, in fact, must debate this subject with the depth it deserves. Today, let us look at telework and labour organisations in the light of a pandemic which, we hope, will not last forever and therefore cannot be the one to regulate the issues that we are debating here today.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u98	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u99	The Socialist Party has important contributions on this subject, already demonstrated in the Electoral Programme and in the Government Programme. We do not have stigmas about the formulation that must correspond to the organization of work. In the Socialist Party, we have full respect for the position of the worker. No form of organization of work can supplant those who are the inalienable rights of each of the workers and of the labour force. [[P.S.'s applause.]] So what this debate requires is that we correspond to the debate itself. Telework brings benefits and losses. And what is the role of decision makers and political actors in democracy? It's boosting the benefits and eliminating the damage. We do not ignore that, from an environmental point of view, progress can be made as a result of the increase in telework. We do not even know that, from the point of view of the reorganization of the country as a cohesive country, telework can correspond to the aspirations of less developed regions today.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u100	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u101	But, in fact, any change in this matter also results in injury and precipitation is probably the main force behind these losses. What would our economy be like if, tomorrow, we passed only suddenly a large number of workers for the telework component? What would happen to restoration, cleaning services? What would happen to the jobs of service providers if there were no such physical work? Therefore, any change may not correspond to the production of unemployment because telework cannot itself correspond to the absence of work. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the issue that has been brought to us today must itself correspond to concrete legislative initiatives. We are available to participate in the debate. In fact, I believe it is a common trait for all parliamentary groups. We all demonstrate willingness to participate in this debate. The country needs this debate, but there is one thing that the country also needs: to look at concrete measures and appreciate them. In the PS, we find it strange that the proposer of this debate has not even brought about a single draft resolution. In fact, there are regulatory components that correspond to the powers and powers of the Government, but there are also powers of the Assembly of the Republic which, when such a debate is marked, cannot be ignored by Parliament itself. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I conclude by referring to what I said at the beginning of my speech: without stigma and without prejudice, we are available to participate in this debate, provided that the solutions found are the benefit of workers and organisations. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u102	Mr Diana Ferreira of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u103	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Telework is an instrument that, in the current context, has been used by forces of public health circumstances, there are those who want to extend it, endow it and promote it as a panacea for all evils. Nothing other than reality. It is not, of course, at stake, the use of new technologies, which must be at the service of developing and improving working and living conditions. What is at stake is the capital's use to create illusions and weaken workers' rights. To whom does the extended use of this instrument serve? the capital that aggravates the exploitation with intensification of work, with greater pressure to extend the working period, for permanent availability, with the increased difficulty of defining, controlling and monitoring working times. Who actually wins and accumulates with all this? Employers, especially large companies, who reduce costs and transfer to workers costs of installations, water, electricity, communications, as well as pressure on the use of worker's work tools at the service of the company. What does the capital really want? Make way to end workers' remuneration components — food allowance and other premiums and allowances — either in the immediate or in the longer term; withdraw workers' rights, imposing even more irregular schedules, continuous working days, full availability for work at any time. More: it aims to shake off responsibilities that are theirs, including in matters of safety and health at work and protection of accidents at work, establishing the confusion between what is private sphere or work in conditions of telework at home. It is the invasion of the privacy of workers' lives. The confusion between the workplace, the family space, the staff and the private one. He's the boss inside the worker's house! It is the creation of the illusion that it is possible to combine telework and follow-up to the child when, in practice, it is not. Work is work, monitoring the child continues to be followed up to the child, dimensions that cannot be confused, nor overlapped. It adds the social isolation of workers — the objective of physical separation and greater isolation of workers from one another, to their detriment, denying the possibility of sharing experiences and knowledge that favor their professional and personal development, promoting the fragility, if not a break in the construction of links of socialization and affirmation of spaces of collective solidarity, with negative impacts on the clarification, unity, organization and struggle of workers. This is all that needs to be kept in mind, as any rights weakening must be stopped. Of course, I oppose the idea that the agreement between worker and employer is sufficient to regulate this relationship. It's not, it's never been. We all know that in the relationship between work and capital there is a weaker part and a stronger part. We do not ignore that there are workers in a telework situation not only in the context of the outbreak as before. We do not ignore this reality and we will be here to defend the rights of these workers. But let's not banner in arc, nor do we feed illusions that telework and its generalization are the miraculous solution. It is not even the telework that will solve problems of inclusion of people with disabilities, what they need, yes, is that all architectural barriers are broken down and jobs properly adapted. They don't need to be closed, alone at home, away from collective experiences. It will not solve the problem of informal caregivers, which they need is that employers recognize and fulfill their right to accompany and care for others. It is not the telework that will solve a set of work-oriented problems every day, such as exploitation, precariousness, low wages, intense working rhythms, pressures, time deregulation, long working days — on the contrary, it can contribute to its deepening — nor will it solve problems that persist with public transport, where it is important to strengthen the supply and quality of transport and the balanced development of the country, the planning and planning of the territory, the establishment of productive activities and housing as a necessary way to reduce travel, saving time and resources. The CFP will continue to pay attention to all these realities. There are intense struggles in raising the living conditions of workers: the protection of employment and employment with rights; the general value of wages; the reduction of working hours; the defence of collective employment; the strengthening of maternity and paternity rights; the regulation of working hours; the strengthening, and compliance, of health, hygiene and safety at work.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u104	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u105	I'm really finishing up, Madam President. We will be present in all these struggles, either with the workers in their struggles or with our institutional intervention. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u106	Mr João Almeida of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u107	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There is a way to make politics that doesn't make much sense, which is to defend general causes and then not succeed in realising the general causes in what particular discussions are. We have heard several parties talk often about fighting climate change, but today they have completely ignored the impact the fight against climate change has on regulating telework. We have heard many parties talk often about the reconciliation between time for work and time for the family, but today they have completely ignored the importance that telework and smart working can have in this reconciliation. They have ignored what, from our point of view, should be discussed in the field of telework and smart working. It is clear that the situation in which we live related to the pandemic has made us see the telework in a different way, but it must also be said that it has not made us see the telework in the right way. What we understand should be telework—and, from the perspective of the CDS, smart working and reconciliation between work at home and work at work in a positive way—is not about a forced reality, which, above all, had a condition that greatly confused the provision of work at this time with that which can be done under normal conditions, which was the presence of children at home at the same time. What has been confused, during this period, between telework and family support is something that has nothing to do with the general regime of telework and smart working. So let's see what that general regime should be. The CDS did not wake up for telework and for smart working now, in the context of the pandemic. The CDS was in the Government that introduced this possibility into legislation and in 2016 brought to this Parliament a draft resolution to regulate this legal regime. And how did the parties then vote in the Assembly of the Republic? When, in 2016, four years before the pandemic, we wanted to regulate telework, voted in favour of the PSD and CDS, voted against the PS, the Left Block, the PCP and the PEV and the PAN were absent. So, four years ago, when we discussed this matter, that's how the parties stood. Later, we wanted to discuss here an essential issue in telework, the right to disconnect, this ghost that the left parties present and that does not fight to say that the boss enters the worker's house. It fights by defining rules so that the worker cannot be disturbed and so that he cannot be required to provide work outside the one who is the reasonable time and who has to be defined. We have also presented a clear project to discuss this matter. But when we wanted to give workers the right to disconnect and prevent this abuse by employers, the parties who today came to say that the boss enters the workers' home voted against: again the Left Block, again the PCP and again the ENP. When we were defending the workers who could work under these conditions, you voted against this possibility of defence. We insisted again on this issue in 2019, at the national reform plan, there dedicating an entire chapter of our draft resolution alternative to telework and smart work, proposing a distinction between telework and smart work, to differentiate those situations where all work is provided at a distance from another reality, which, for us, makes the most sense to discuss at this time, the one in which we think should invest, which is allowing workers that part of their work is done at a distance. This may mean, for example, that one week may have days when work is performed at the workplace and other days when work is carried out at a distance. Or it may also mean that, depending on the tasks, there are periods when the worker is at the workplace and periods when he can develop his activity remotely. What is crucial is that there are rules, because that is what protects workers and that is what also gives safety to employers, who, when entering these regimes, will maintain the return of their workers' professional activity. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is essential to realize that from an environmental point of view, from a social point of view, from a quality of life point of view, from the point of view of modernising the functioning of our companies, from a point of view of modernising the provision of work, there is much to be done in Portugal. And if we continue with the ghosts of the past, we are not protecting the workers, we are delaying the country and, if we delay the country, we certainly do not improve the living conditions of the workers. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u108	Mr António Gameiro, from the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u109	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This debate has been marked by the issue most noted today in this Chamber, which is the fact that it is a marking by a political party which does not present any concrete proposal to solve the problem of workers in Portugal. This is something we're not used to, which is almost unheard of. In fact, in this House, when the parties take the initiative to ask for a marking of debate on a particular subject, they usually present solutions to the Portuguese. It was therefore quite clear here that the NAP thinks a lot, it speaks a lot, but it does not have the courage to say, in law, what needs to be changed in the Labour Code,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u110	We're responsible!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u111	... or what regulations it proposes for those six or seven articles between Articles 175. o and 181. the Labour Code. I would also like to say that these general causes, as already pointed out here, need, in addition to thinking, an attitude. The amplitude of this debate, which brought the discussion issues ranging from the reconciliation of family life to work, through the right to rest and relaxation, to the question that has to do with social rights — with the guarantees and rights assumed by the Constitution and the Labour Code and attributed to workers — needed a proposal, in particular, to allow us to address ourselves to it in order to make a political contradiction. But what we have is empty, because this debate does not have an initiative on the part of the NAP to follow it. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Secondly, Madam President, I would like to say that we are available to consider legislative initiatives on telework. In fact, this is a time when it is really necessary to go a little deeper into meeting the initiative presented by the CDS in 2016 and regulate what is in the Labour Code. We give this for purchase, it's something we need, as the pandemic has shown. Thirdly, regarding Public Administration, we aim to, in the long term,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u112	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u113	I will finish, Madam President. As I said with regard to the Public Administration, we aim to achieve 25 % of the public service workers in telework in the long term. This will ensure that there will be no reduction in workers' rights and, indeed, with the guarantee of increased working conditions and support for workers at home, because many of the workers who may stay at home do not have the means to develop their activities. Therefore, we need weighting, moderation, reflection, and we will discuss this issue in the coming months. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u114	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us move on to the closing stage of the debate. For an intervention, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u115	Madam President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u116	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u117	Madam President, it is to ask the Bureau about the conduct of the work.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u118	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u119	Madam President, there is a rule of the Directorate-General for Health and there are rules of coexistence among all Members that in this House there is a mask. Mr. André Ventura was here for the last hour and a half without a mask... Fortunately, he just put it now. I would therefore ask the President to alert the honourable Member to this fact so that he does not then say that Parliament does not comply with the law.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u120	Mr President, the Bureau has been paying attention to this. Today, by the way, you've been less attentive, but I appreciate your alertness. [[CH Member's Protests André Ventura.]] Now, yes, to close the debate, you have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Inês Sousa Real. [[Continuation of protests by CH Member André Ventura.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u121	Sir, if I may...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u122	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, please create conditions for the honourable Member to use the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u123	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : It is clear from this debate that the pandemic has brought about an unmistakable reality and evidence of problems, on the one hand, and solutions, on the other hand, which can actually help us to understand how we can regulate telework, because telework, in the molds in which we know it, presents problems for the workers, as demonstrated by the experience of recent months. And the answer can only be to identify them, debate them, find solutions and pour them into legislation. The NAP will not steal this entire process. In fact, we have already had the opportunity to announce that we will present a proposal for regulation of telework. What the NAP does not give in to is a speedy legislating attempt on a matter that is complex and that lacks the debate of all of us, in this House,... [[PAN's applause.]] ... as well as the listening of the social partners, workers and all those who are affected by these standards. Having said that, and returning to the theme of this debate, which is overcome by the cultural obstacle, under circumstances, in relation to telework, we must take advantage of this time so that, in fact, all of us, together, can benefit from their potential, which is due to the increase in the well-being of workers and their families, which has not been mentioned here either. We are not just talking about increasing productivity, reducing costs for companies, improving the environment and ordination of the territory, population health, reducing costs for the state or, then, of the problems identified. And we do not ignore the problems related to telework, but here listening to the fears of some political forces, particularly the fears of the CFP regarding telework, it seems that the current working world is a full rainbow that is free of any problems, and it seems that regulation is in fact going to haunt that reality. So it seems to us that the PCP sees the glass half empty and comes to defend a work model that has so far criticized,... [[Protests from PCP MP Paula Santos.]] ... where there is indeed a need to safeguard workers' rights through regulation and clarification of this new form of employment relationship. [[Protests by PCP MP João Oliveira.]] There is, in fact, a problem of regulation of the law and its respect in practice, which demonstrates that the concepts provided for in the Labour Code either deepen or change the form of supervision in the legislation or, indeed, we will be here to close our eyes to what is, whether we want it or not, a reality. There are just a few examples. The telework law says that the worker's rest period should be respected, but we know that in practice this was a problem identified by workers whose right was not respected. We have heard here about gender equality issues, and we well know that we cannot go back to the goals and what we have been able to achieve so far in respect for human rights and women's rights. In a remarkable way, it is women who are mostly caring for their children and therefore we must also think about the path that we are going to take at the level of social support precisely in order to give them answers, as the NAP proposed and which has been rejected by this House. We have already talked here today about the question of public administration, in which telework has in some way been implemented, but it is necessary that, before the Government wishes to put more than 25 % of the workers in telework be implemented, ensure the digital transition, so much appreciated, of the Public Administration, as well as distance teaching, thus giving shape to a pillar that has not passed from letter to paper. It's the digital transition, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it's not just a decree. Therefore, the country does not have all the same reality, it does not have all the same socio-economic context and this cannot mean that, because we are in the context of pandemic, in which people are forced to work at home, they actually have to leave their rights behind, increasing, with this, the social and regional asymmetries already existing. But telework, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it was also used, and badly, by employers to cut labor rights. There were good examples, but there were also bad examples. There were cuts in food subsidies contractually planned, and it was essential to strengthen the monitoring of these matters. And the NAP has defended the strengthening of the means of the ACT precisely so that these situations do not happen successively. Telework also has an important role to play in combating the health crisis—and we have not heard here, by some political forces, a word that would be said in relation to this—be it in the peak of the pandemic, in which it allows the economy not to paralyze, either in the period of defination, in which it allows the turnover of the present work and fewer people in transport. And we don't know if we won't need to generalize telework again. That is why it would be good to anticipate and solve the problems that, all of us today, have been able to identify, so that they do not repeat themselves. And the resolution of these problems, whether we want it or not, is not done with the law that we have, which allows successive problems to happen to work or, less so, leaving only for the collective convention the resolution of this matter. Incentives must be created for businesses that introduce telework, with resulting tax benefits, solutions must also be provided at the level of mental health — to combat the factors of isolation — and it is obviously necessary to have the perception that this is a change in which we do not have to go back. Telework is a reality today. The past as we know it at work has had its role, but it has given rise to new realities, which must be, necessarily, fairer and more functional and more effective. Our objective is, in fact, to contribute to the identification of problems and power, through regulation, to ensure a more just social, organizational and economic change, also in the way we promote relations and labour processes, adapting them to the flexibility necessary, which contributes not only to greater productivity, but above all to allow more time for families, for people and for their full realization, which we should not, in the 21st century, ignore. [[PAN's applause.]] [[In the meantime, President Eduardo Ferro Rodrigues took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u124	We have thus reached the end of this debate on telework. of the second item on our agenda is the examination of the proposals for amendments by the plenary on the supplementary budget. Let us therefore begin by voting together on the requirements of the CDS-PP, the PAN, the PS, the BE, the PS and the PCP for the fuller, the vote on amendments to the final text, submitted by the Committee on Budgets and Finance, on the Proposal for a Law No 33 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Supplementary Budget by 2020. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and the abstention of the IL were adopted.]] Following the approval of the requests, we will have a debate. Mr Duarte Pacheco, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, addressed the first speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u125	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The proposal for a supplementary budget submitted by the Government is intended to respond to an economic and social crisis arising from a pandemic. We all know that. Today, at the end of this process, we have a proposal that is substantially better than the one that has entered, as a result of the amendments proposed by all the parties who have deserved approval in this House. Let me point out, for example, three proposals put forward by the Social Democratic Party: the final allocation of fair support to micro-enterprise partners, which, for months, was denied by the Government; the proposal that the income of families for access to their children's scholarships should reflect the incomes this year and not, what was normal, the incomes of 2019; and a fair and real premium—not virtual, Mrs. Members of the Government — for the health professionals who fought this pandemic.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u126	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u127	However, other proposals have not yet merited the approval of this House.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u128	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u129	With regard to these proposals, I will also point out three. First of all, to ensure that the State pays its suppliers in time and time. Are you against them? I repeat, are you against?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u130	Good question!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u131	If the proposal said that the State should be a bricklayer, it would understand. But are you going to pay in time and hours and you're against it? Oh, my God! Explain why.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u132	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u133	The second example is to strengthen home support measures, since so many people are confined to their homes. And you're against? Oh, my God! Explain why. There must be an explanation, but it has not yet been given. Finally, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to refer to TAP ( Portuguese Air Transport ). The Government is preparing to inject EUR 1200 million into the TAP. Stop it! We'll see if we're not going to have a new "New Bank". What we have proposed was simply this: that the Government should inform the Assembly of the Republic of the values it will inject, submit the accounts, explain the business plan, routes, etc. Finally, we proposed that this explanation should be explained to Parliament! That the Socialist Party votes against, perhaps with fear and wanting to hide the reality of the Portuguese, until we can understand it, but the PCP and the Block do not want to receive explanations from the Government? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u134	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u135	You don't understand. You have a second chance. That's what we're giving you. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u136	The next item is Mr Porfirio Silva of the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u137	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS wants to interrupt the procedures already pending reuse of school textbooks. So political time only interferes with school time. Is it for learning recovery? Oh, my God! But manual banks, school libraries and the continuation of digital licenses allow you to maintain access! Every year there is recovery of learning and it never depended on manuals. There are other educational resources and there are already scheduled situations of non-revolution. Will the CDS judge that learning recovery, at this time, is walking a few pages behind the manual and repeating, as if nothing had happened? Next year you will have to learn to manage emotions, to deal with uncertainty and risk, to allow students to understand what is happening in the world, to consolidate new experiences, and that is not in the manuals. The CDS proposal interferes with school work and distracts from what matters. He deserves to be rejected. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u138	I now give the floor to Mrs Mariana Mortágua for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u139	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Left Block does not see the Supplementary Budget as the first round of the Budget for 2021. We understand — and we say it from the outset — that there are inadequacies in the Government's response to the economic and social crisis, but this budget is necessary because it finances the emergency strengthening of the National Health Service, it funds social support measures which, although insufficient, are essential at this stage and, more importantly, this budget makes an extraordinary transfer that prevents a hole in the social security pension system from opening. The Block has approved some proposals that we value: the 100 % sickness benefit for people infected with COVID-19; the facilitation of access to IHRU support (Instituto da Habitação e da Rehabilição Urbana) for those who are unable to pay their income; the exclusion of companies based in offshore public support. Other proposals were rejected even after they were generally approved by the PSD. This is the case with the extraordinary unemployment allowance and the reduction in day care facilities. We do not forget, too, informal caregivers, that PSD and PS refused to support this Supplementary Budget. We therefore advocate these proposals so that each party can now, very clearly, not only take up its positions but also its backs. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u140	It is the turn of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group. Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u141	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : On school textbooks, on the proposal of the CDS that the Socialist Party has advocated, I would like to explain that this proposal means that when, in many cases, part of the matter has not been given, there is no other way...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u142	There, there!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u143	... of students studying, working and compensating this matter which has not been given that it is not to keep the manuals.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u144	There, there!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u145	There is, yes!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u146	Nothing guarantees equality of opportunity and the social elevator as the school, and the pandemic called into question. Therefore, this process of returns of manuals should never have started. When the PS says "we will protect the procedures", this can only be done at this time at the cost of challenging the learning of students and their entire future life. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, between giving students the opportunity to work and study with their manuals and to protect the procedure, I have to say that I prefer to protect students.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u147	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u148	Mr Porfirio Silva says: « Students do not need to keep books, they have to learn how to manage emotions for the year. No, sir. Students have the right to learn what is in their school textbooks. If you think the important thing is to learn how to manage emotions, you would suggest that the PS learn how to manage their own emotions and leave school textbooks with students. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[Protests by the PS Spouse Porfirio Silva.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u149	Mr João Oliveira, from the CFP Parliamentary Group, now has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u150	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : We have already had an opportunity to make an assessment of the Supplementary Budget resulting from the vote in the specialty. We consider it a budget which is inclined towards the interests of the economic groups and large capital, insofar as everything that is denied, missing or mitigated in response to the problems of workers remains, in an unacceptable way, in benefits and privileges given to the economic groups. We also had the opportunity to verify and record the fact that the result of the supplementary budget vote is obtained: with a convergence between the PS and the PSD, not only in the approval of what was erroneously contained in the proposal for supplementary budget submitted by the Government, but also in the rejection of the vast majority of the proposals submitted by the CFP. The five proposals we have brought for counsel have been rejected precisely with this convergence, and there are five excellent examples of the response that is missing in the Budget to immediate problems that reach hundreds of thousands of workers throughout the country. These proposals are as follows: the guarantee of payment of wages to 100 %, without cuts imposed by the Layoff regime; the prohibition of redundancies during the epidemic and the presentation of measures to combat them; the guarantee of a 20 % salary supplement for all workers — I stress, for all workers — essential services, without leaving out any of those who are already claiming to be covered as well as the workers of the National Institute of Health Doctor Ricardo Jorge; the proposal on the reduction of monthly childcare fees, as a result of the loss of family incomes, which, above all, had been approved on Tuesday morning, with the votes in favour of the PSD, ending in the afternoon by being rejected with the vote of the PSD ; finally, the budgetary reinforcement of the funds for public transport is at this moment a central issue, with obvious evidence in the metropolitan area of Lisbon, but also throughout the country, because the problems of public transport are not only the area, the mepoli are the area. In fact, there is a need to strengthen the budget to address the measures that need to be put into practice, so that the use of public transport is done safely, not only for those who use it, but also for those who work in it. These are five proposals that illustrate the contribution of the CFP to this Budget response to the problems of workers. These are five proposals that illustrate the convergence between PS and PSD in their rejection, maiming the one that could be a fundamental response to the economic and social problems ahead. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u151	For an intervention, Mrs Bebiana Cunha has the floor of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u152	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I would like to say that we cannot fail to regret that the government has not been present in the debate scheduled by us on telework. We would very much like to have heard what they have to say about this. With regard to the Supplementary Budget, the work of the NAP in this House has been a work of bridges, constructive, which in fact aims to improve the proposals that the Government has brought to us. That is what we have done in this Supplementary Budget. We have not neglected to present our contributions. From the set of proposals we have carried out, a Supplementary Budget came out with a strengthening of the concerns of the NAP. I would like to give three very concrete examples. First of all, the strengthening of the epidemiological surveillance network, since the first time policies were launched to definate. The NAP has been alerting to the importance of strengthening the number of public health specialists. We know that the ratio in Portugal of these experts is half what it should be. We already have the Government's commitment to strengthening public health in Portugal with at least 33 specialists, which is essential for the stage in which we are and what is next. We must also mention the importance of strengthening social action in higher education. In fact, we have achieved a commitment in this Supplementary Budget, with a very specific deadline, i.e. in November of this year, higher education institutions will clearly have a strengthening in order that no young person, no student of higher education has to abandon him, has to abandon his dreams, as a result of the socio-economic conditions that have changed in the meantime. I also note that we have been able to extend the funding of applications for the authorities' programmes and the money made available by the Government for animal protection programmes so that people with socio-economic needs can make use of this money to provide proper care for their animals, either in food or in medical and veterinary care. But we could not fail to advocate for plenary a proposal on the social economy, which is linked to the social credit line Invest. We cannot understand why there is no desire for the government to solve the problems associated with this line, which prevent non-governmental organizations, IPSS (private institutions of social solidarity) and associations, which have already applied in the past, from applying in the present. We remember that these non-governmental organizations provide pressing responses in our society, whether to homeless people, or to people who face the most diverse vulnerabilities. Basically, if there are surgical proposals that have been put forward, this was one of them, and only aims to solve the problems of this social credit line Invest, so that non-governmental organizations and associations can finance - if - this is even a credit - only to implement social responses, which are fundamental. We would really like the government to be able to resolve this issue.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u153	I ask you to finish, Mrs. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u154	Today, in this plenary, we will see who is actually next to the non-governmental organizations, the IPSS and the associations that act in social matters, with such a job that none of us, of course, will be able to criticize. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u155	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u156	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is highly ironic that the PSD is involved in this debate. We recorded that. The irony has always been a panagio of the parliamentary debate, so it is not out of its content, but, after the shadow games that PSD and PS made during the debate, in the seat of specialty,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u157	You must be kidding me!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u158	... and of the advances that have been prevented, some already achieved in bills approved by the Left Block, such as that of the extraordinary unemployment allowance for informal workers, that the PSD had monitored and enabled and then stopped doing,... [[Protests from PSD MP Clara Marques Mendes.]] ... we realized that there was a change of wind and will in this debate. However, this did not alter the soul of the Supplementary Budget, which was born and comes to an end as it is, an increase in expenditure in the face of an economic and social emergency triggered by the COVID-19, but which also demonstrates its limitations. Clearly limited by what was missing from him and which has now been put in part in the work of specialty and obvious, too, by the barrier — that, yes, was the novelty created in this debate! — that prevented those advances that we had already identified. Therefore, if there is a certain willingness of Members and Members to make concrete progress, the votes of the lawyers that the Block brings today allow us to answer the essential issues of the present day. In fact, there is a will to, rather than ironic, there is a consequence and to move from words to acts. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u159	Mrs Cecilia Meireles of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u160	Mr President, by presenting our lawyers, I remember that in this budgetary debate the CDS presented alternatives designed for people who were far from the narrative of the Portuguese miracle and the support and thought, too, remembering that the resources of the State are the resources of all and that they are not unlimited. Therefore, the two proposals that we bring here are not of support, are proposed so that the State will not force taxpayers to advance, in taxes, money that, in fact, will not be due and that will be returned in 2021. This is the case with our proposal to amend the withholding tables at source and is also the case with the proposal of the current account between State and taxpayers, so that the State will not be required to receive early from those taxpayers and companies to whom it is owed money. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u161	Mr. João Paulo Correia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u162	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: When the Government presented the Economic and Social Stabilization Programme, it did so by listening to the parties with parliamentary seats, the social partners and representatives of civil society. The Economic and Social Stabilization Programme was presented in the logic of being a transitional vehicle between the emergency and the economic recovery that the country so needs. It was presented to respond to the protection of workers, to respond to the protection of incomes, to strengthen social protection and to strengthen support for companies, especially micro and small enterprises. This Supplementary Budget is one of the financing vehicles of the Economic and Social Stabilisation Programme and as such has been presented with part of the measures of the Economic and Social Stabilisation Programme. And the position of the PS Parliamentary Group and the Government during the specialization process was a dialogue with the parliamentary groups for the modelling of measures provided for in the Economic and Social Stabilization Programme. This is how we approved proposals submitted by the Left Block, such as the prohibition of public support for companies based in offshores or that of the subsidy for the 100 % prophylactic isolation ; this is also how we approved proposals from the CFP, such as removing the barriers from the moratoriums for companies to access this measure implemented by the Government or, furthermore, the proposals to create more justice in the award of scholarships in higher education and to help families access to day care centres, as regards payment plans and also registrations. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We have approved many proposals from the CFP and the Left Block, but we cannot ignore the fact that the majority of the proposals have been set up here, which are not envisaged in the Economic and Social Stabilization Programme and the Supplementary Budget, cause a considerable budgetary impact either on the revenue side, causing a considerable fall in both the expenditure side and the expenditure side, causing a considerable increase in the revenue side. These proposals were adopted with the positive vote of the PSD. And we cannot ignore this because, still a few days ago, the PSD accused the government of entering ambitious budget targets in the Supplementary Budget, saying that the government would not meet these goals, but back a few days it was the PSD that gave its vote in favour of a set of proposals that broke a lot of revenue and greatly increased state spending.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u163	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u164	In conclusion, Mr President, if the PSD is not the champion of budgetary responsibility, the PS has to leave the warning that many of these proposals cause additional pressure in the implementation of the budget for 2020. The PSD and the right, which have claimed from the Government the admission of budgetary targets, do not come within a few weeks or months to seek responsibilities for non-implementation. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u165	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall enter the voting period. We begin with the legal proposals relating to the Supplementary Budget by 2020,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u166	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u167	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u168	Mr President, it is for an intervention. The PSD still has 1 second. Mr. President, I'll take 5 seconds.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u169	Mr President, we have already closed the debate. Are you going to talk for 1 second?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u170	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u171	So please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u172	Mr President, it is only to clarify that the PSD will enable the support proposed by the CFP to Portuguese firefighters, who have been so mistreated in this process and who deserve the support that can be approved by this House. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u173	Mrs. Members, let us turn to the special vote on the Bill No 33 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Supplementary Budget by 2020. It is a question of voting on the proposals which have been made by the plenary. Starting with Article 2. that of the bill, we shall vote on the proposal, submitted by the CDS-PP, of amendment from paragraph 6 to Article 329. the Law No 2 / 2020, of 31 March. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CDS-PP, the CH and the IL and abstained from BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues.]] [[It was as follows: Article 329 [...] 1 — [...] 2 — [...] 3 — [...] 4 — [...] 5 — [...] 6 — The Government shall review the holding tables at source in IRS in order to match the tax due to the end of the tax withdrawn, as from July.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u174	Mrs. Members, let us turn to Article 3. o. We shall vote on the proposal submitted by BE to add Article 40. o -A to Law No 2 / 2020 of 31 March as set out in Article 3. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, the PCP, the PEN, the PEN, the CH, the IL and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and abstentions from the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] [[It was as follows: Article 40a Remuneration Supplement for Risks per COVID-19 1 — The exercise, during the period of prevention, containment, mitigation and treatment of epidemiological infection by COVID-19, of functions representing increased risk for workers confers the right to the allocation of a pay supplement at risk. 2 — They are included in the previous issue, in particular the functions performed by the workers of the National Health Service and the services and bodies of direct or indirect administration of the Ministry of Health. 3 — The functions performed under telework are excluded from the previous number. 4 — The remuneration supplement provided for in the previous paragraph corresponds to 20% of the monthly remuneration value, within a maximum of 0,5 IAS. 5 — The regulation of this remuneration supplement shall be made by the Government within 60 days of the adoption of this law and after negotiation with the representative structures of the workers concerned.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u175	We now vote on the proposal by BE to add Article 40. o-B to Law No 2 / 2020 of 31 March, as set out in Article 3. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, ENP, CH, IL and non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and abstentions from PSD, CDS-PP and PAN.]] [[It was as follows: Article 40b Exceptional and temporary mechanism for the recognition of professional disease 1 — An exceptional and temporary mechanism of legal presumption is created for the recognition of professional disease in health professionals with VOCID-19. 2 — The health professional with COVID-19 is automatically recognized as a professional disease, and the investigation for the establishment of causality connection is dispensed. 3 — Recognition of occupational disease ensures 100% remuneration, regardless of whether the professional is in individual employment contract or in public employment contract, without prejudice to future reparations to the worker concerned for future consequences of the disease. 4 — The mechanism created by this article is in force while the epidemic caused by SARS-CoV-2 is maintained in Portugal.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u176	We shall vote on the proposal submitted by BE to add Article 40. o-C to Law No 2 / 2020 of 31 March, as set out in Article 3. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, the PCP, the PEN, the PEN, the CH, the IL and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and abstentions from the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] [[It was as follows: Article 40c Social protection of beneficiaries who are temporarily prevented from exercising their professional activity in the order of the health authority, due to the danger of contagion by COVID-19 1 — The temporary impediment to the exercise of the professional activity of beneficiaries, recognised by the health authority, in the exercise of the powers provided for in Article 5 of Decree-Law No 82/2009 of 2 April, in the context of the danger of contagion by COVID-19, is equated to the disease with hospital admission, for the purposes of Decree-Law No 28/2004 of 4 February, not being the award of the sickness benefit subject to the term of guarantee, professionality index and waiting period, the daily amount of the sickness benefit calculated by the highest percentage provided for in Article 16(3) of Decree-Law No 28/2004 of 4 February, in its current wording. 2 — The provisions in the previous paragraph do not apply to workers to whom it is possible to ensure the use of alternative working arrangements, in particular telework or distance training programmes. 3 — The certification referred to in paragraph 1 shall be carried out in accordance with Article 2875-A/2020 of 3 March.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u177	We shall proceed to the vote on the proposal submitted by the CDS-PP for the addition of Article 153. o -A to Law No 2 / 2020 of 31 March as set out in Article 3. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CDS-PP, the NAP, the CH, the IL and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and abstains from BE, the PCP and the ENP.]] [[It was as follows: Article 153-The Update of the Commitment for Cooperation concluded with the entities of the social and solidarity sector During this year the Government shall undertake an update of the Commitment for Cooperation concluded with the Union of Portuguese Mercy, the National Confederation of Solidarity Institutions and the Union of Portuguese Mutualities at a value covering the direct and indirect costs of increasing the guaranteed minimum monthly remuneration (RMMG) and other relevant factors, including inflation.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u178	We shall vote on the proposal submitted by the CDS-PP to add Article 165. o -A to Law No 2 / 2020 of 31 March as set out in Article 3. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and votes against the PS.]] [[It is as follows: Article 165a Suspends the return of free school textbooks The obligation to return free school textbooks delivered in the academic year 2019-2020 is suspended in order to ensure the conditions for the recovery of pupils' learning, to take place at the beginning of the school year 2020-2021.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u179	We now vote on the proposal by the PSD to add Article 189. o -A to Law No 2 / 2020 of 31 March as set out in Article 3. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, CDS-PP, NAP, CH and non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues, votes against the PCP and ENP and abstentions from BE and IL.]] [[It is as follows: Article 189a Strengthening of funds for health support and emergency military support in the LPM In accordance with and for the purposes of Article 11 of the Organic Law No 2/2019 of 17 June, in particular the flexible management that presides over the management of resources, the Minister of National Defence should undertake the necessary financial procedures to ensure the strengthening of funds for emergency military support and health support, taking into account the need to combat the COVID-19 pandemic.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u180	We shall vote on the proposal submitted by the CFP to add Article 197. o -A to Law No 2 / 2020 of 31 March as set out in Article 3. The proposal of the law. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PSD, the BE, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the NAP, the ENP, the CH, the IL and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and the PS abstention.]] [[It is as follows: Article 197A Extraordinary Emergency Support for Humanitarian Firearms Associations 1 — An Emergency Assistance Plan for the Immediate Financing of the Humanitarian Firearms Associations (AHB) to be applied from July 2020 is established to enable HBAs to face the serious financial situation threatening their activity in the provision of relief to populations, with the amounts and criteria contained in the following numbers. 2 — The minimum amount of emergency extraordinary support shall correspond to the value of three monthly benefits of the permanent financing budgeted for 2020, in accordance with Law No 94/2015 of 13 August. 3 — The distribution of the Emergency Fund by the AHB follows the following criterion: (a) 50% of the appropriation is allocated to support the cost of salaries of paid staff, considering this cost equivalent to 70% of the overall expenditure of the AHB. (b) 25% is equally attributed by all AHBs. (c) 25% is allocated proportionally to the operating costs of AHBs.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u181	We shall proceed to the vote on the proposal submitted by the CDS-PP for the addition of Article 261. o -A to Law No 2 / 2020 of 31 March as set out in Article 3. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the ENP were rejected, votes against the CDS-PP, the PAN and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and abstentions from the PSD, the CH and the IL.]] [[It was as follows: Article 261a Compulsory testing of entry by sea or air borders 1 — Following the COVID-19 pandemic, and while their epidemiological situation justifies it, the Government ensures that the entry of persons into national territory, by air or sea, can only be verified after the presentation of a COVID19 tracking test, with negative results, obtained in the last 36 hours. 2 — If this test is not presented within the last 36 hours, the Government shall ensure that the test is carried out at the entrance (airport and seaport). 3 — The Government shall, within eight days, make the necessary rules for the implementation of the measures provided for in this Article.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u182	Mrs. Members, let us vote on the proposal submitted by the CFP to add Article 262. o -A to Law No 2 / 2020 of 31 March as set out in Article 3. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, the PCP, the PEN, the PEN, the CH, the IL and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and abstentions from the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] [[It was as follows: Article 262-The Conversion of Labour Contracts 1 — Work contracts concluded with workers under exceptional and temporary measures to respond to the SARS-CoV-2 epidemic are converted into permanent or unfinished work contracts, as appropriate, with public links. 2 — Where the conversion of the work link provided for in the previous paragraph depends on the making of tenders, the workers referred to in the previous paragraph shall automatically be considered as opponents of the competition and the competitive procedure shall be carried out by each service or entity, with the opening of vacancies in the corresponding number. 3 — The Government also converts employment contracts with a precarious link between workers who perform permanent functions for employment contracts with an indefinite public bond.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u183	We now vote on the proposal by BE amending Article 325. -A of Law No 2 / 2020 of 31 March as set out in Article 3. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the PSD were rejected and votes against the BE, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the ENP, the IL and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and the abstention of the CH.]] [[It was as follows: Article 325a Extraordinary unemployment and cessation allowance 1 — Within the framework of extraordinary measures to respond to the COVID-19 pandemic, the extraordinary unemployment and cessation allowance is created. 2 — The allowance provided for in paragraph 1 is an extraordinary and temporary benefit of solidarity, with a maximum duration of 180 days. (b) self-employed persons; (c) domestic workers; (d) members of management bodies; (e) workers registered in the Advocates and Applicants' Safety Box; (f) managers of undertakings of which they are the sole employee; (g) microenterprise managers; (h) pensioners of disability under the general social security scheme who have been declared suitable for work in the review of disability and have been unemployed; (i) scientific research fellows; (j) other workers without any other framework under any other social protection scheme. 4 — The extraordinary unemployment and cessation allowance does not apply to any guarantee period. 5 — The extraordinary allowance for unemployment and cessation of activity shall apply to any worker who proves that his activity is terminated as a worker on behalf of another person or as an independent worker, or as an abrupt breakdown of activity, because it is not imputable to him. 6 — The proof provided for in the previous paragraph shall be carried out by means of the submission of a document confirming the cessation of activity, termination of employment or by a document of the applicant declaring the absence of income resulting from the epidemiological crisis on an honour basis. 7 — The false statements for obtaining the benefit imply the obligation to return the support, without prejudice to the application of the legal penalties provided for in these cases. 8 — Where the declaration of honour indicates the existence of work on behalf of an undeclared other person, the competent service of Social Security, in addition to the monitoring action to which it takes place, shall forward the information to the Working Conditions Authority for the appropriate inspection effects, and for its reconstruction of the contribution career with effect from the date on which the hidden employment relationship began. 9 — The extraordinary allowance provided for in this Act is equivalent to the Social Support Index. 10 — The allowance provided for in this Act shall not be accumulated with other unemployment benefits, cessation or reduction of activity or remuneration for suspension of contract. 11 — Where the amount of this allowance is higher than other unemployment benefits or extraordinary support measures, in particular those created for self-employed persons and individual entrepreneurs, the benefit provided for in this Act shall apply to the worker. 12 — The measure provided for in this Act is financed by a Special Fund established for this purpose. 13 — The Government shall regulate, within seven days, the procedures for the award of this exceptional and extraordinary social benefit. 14 — This law shall enter into force on the day following its publication.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u184	Mrs. Members, we shall proceed to the vote on the proposal by the CFP amending Article 325. -A of Law No 2 / 2020 of 31 March as set out in Article 3. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD, CDS-PP and IL were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP and the ENP, and abstentions against the NAP, the CH and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues.]] [[It was as follows: Article 325a (...) 1 — (...). 2 — Legislative authorisation shall be granted with the following meaning and extension: (a) (....); (b) (...); (c) (...(d) to determine the prohibition of termination, in any event, of employment contracts, regardless of the form they review and its cause or basis, and of service provision contracts with self-employed persons, as well as the initiation of their procedures by the employer covered by support for the progressive resumption of activity, during the granting of support and during the following 12 months;); (f) (New) To determine the requirement to readmission of workers whose employment or service contracts have ceased after 1 March 2020; (g) (New) To determine that workers at the service of employers covered by the support for the progressive resumption of the activity are entitled to take 100% of the remuneration, including the allowance for meals or equivalent value, when it is usually assigned in kind; (h) (New) To determine the obligation to comply with all contributing obligations on the part of the employer covered by the support for the progressive resumption of activity.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u185	We shall vote on the proposal submitted by the NAP to add Article 325. o-B to Law No 2 / 2020 of 31 March, as set out in Article 3. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, CDS-PP, PAN, ENP and non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and abstentions from PSD, PCP, CH and IL.]] [[It was as follows: Article 325b Flexibility of the terms of funding line Social Investment In 2020, the Government promotes the flexibility of the conditions of the Social Credit Line Invest, in particular: (a) allowing access to a second financing by entity that has already been financed in the past; (b) increasing the value of the maximum financing amount by entity, ensuring the financing of projects at 100%; (c) eliminating the requirement of net creation of new jobs in the entity as a result of the implementation of operations.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u186	We shall vote on the proposal submitted by the PS to add Article 325. o-B ( Extraordinary support to workers) to Law No 2 / 2020 of 31 March, as set out in Article 3. The proposal of the law.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u187	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u188	Is it for what purpose, Member of the Commission?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u189	Mr President, it is to ask that all paragraphs 8 to 12 be voted on separately from the other numbers at this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u190	If there is no opposition, then we shall jointly vote on paragraphs 8, 9, 10, 11 and 12 of the proposal submitted by the PS for the addition of Article 325. o-B to Law No 2 / 2020 of 31 March, as set out in Article 3. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of PS, PSD, CDS-PP, NAP, CH, IL and non-registered MEP Cristina Rodrigues and abstains from BE, PCP and ENP were adopted.]] [[They are as follows: 8 — The allocation of support presupposes the integration into the social security system for at least 30 months after the deadline for granting support. 9 — Without prejudice to the provisions of the previous paragraph, during the period of granting of support, the contribution as an independent worker is equal to 1/3 of the value of the contribution on the basis of the incidence value of the support, and the remainder shall be paid within 12 months of the end of the support, without the payment of interest on late payment. 10 — During 30 months after the grant of support referred to in paragraph 8, the contribution shall be equivalent to the contribution as an independent worker based at least on the incidence value of the support. 11 — The number of months with contributions made to the social security system shall be deducted for the period of 30 months within 12 months of the date on which the support is granted. 12 — Without prejudice to the provisions of the previous paragraph, it shall be considered for the purposes of the integration into the social security system for at least 30 months after the time limit for granting support, as referred to in the previous paragraph, the registration of the worker, on an uninterrupted basis during that period, in the employment arrangements on behalf of others, of self-employed persons or in the domestic service with monthly remuneration.]] Mr President : - We are now voting on the remaining numbers of this proposal. [[Subject to the vote, they were adopted unanimously, registering the absence of the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira.]] [[They are as follows: Article 325b Extraordinary support for workers 1 — The extraordinary measure provided for in paragraph 2.4 of the Council of Ministers Resolution No 41/2020 of 6 June shall be provided in an extraordinary social protection support for workers in situations of economic and social protection and which do not have access to any social protection instrument or mechanism or social support created under the exceptional and temporary measures to respond to the SARS-CoV-2 epidemic, with the assumption of integration into the social security system for 30 months ending the deadline for granting support. 2 — Workers who are in a situation of economic and social de-protection and who are in a situation of cessation of activity as workers on behalf of others or as self-employed persons are considered to be covered by the provisions in the previous paragraph, because of stopping, reducing or suspending work or breaking at least 40% of the services normally provided. 3 — Support shall be allocated as an alternative to the extraordinary support provided for in Articles 26, 28a and 28b of Decree-Law No 10-A/2020 of 13 March in its current wording, where the value of such support is less than that defined in this Article. 4 — Support shall take effect on the date of the application and shall be granted by presentation of evidence by the worker in how he has lost income from work resulting from the SARS-CoV-2 epidemic or, if not possible, by declaration of honour. 5 — The false statements for obtaining the benefit imply the obligation to return the support, without prejudice to the application of the legal penalties provided for in these cases. 6 — Where the declaration of honour indicates the existence of work on behalf of an undeclared other person, the competent service of Social Security, in addition to the monitoring action to which it takes place, shall forward the information to the Working Conditions Authority for the appropriate purposes. 7 — Support corresponds to the monthly value of 1 IAS and is allocated between July and December 2020.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u191	We shall vote on the proposal submitted by the CFP to add Article 325. o-B ( Review of the monthlyities of child support equipment) to Law No 2 / 2020 of 31 March, as set out in Article 3. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and PSD, CDS-PP and IL.]] [[It was as follows: Article 325b Review of the messality of child support equipment 1 — The requirement of the users, the institutions that have child support valences whose activities were or are suspended shall review the value of family participation. 2 — The revision provided for in the previous paragraph considers income from the aggregate since 1 March 2020 for the definition of per capita income. 3 — For the purposes of the above paragraphs, proof of income may be made by any means admissible in law, in particular by registering remuneration to social security.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u192	We shall proceed to the vote on the proposal submitted by the CFP for the addition of Article 325. o-B ( Suspension of redundancies) to Law No 2 / 2020 of 31 March, as set out in Article 3. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, PAN, ENP and MP not registered Cristina Rodrigues and the abstention from CH.]] [[It was as follows: Article 325b Suspension of redundancies 1 — The termination, in any event, of non-term work contracts or the term in force at the time of application of measures to prevent, contain, mitigate and treat epidemiological infection by SARS-CoV-2 and the disease COVID-19 is suspended. 2 — The provisions in the previous paragraph shall apply to service provision contracts irrespective of the form they review. 3 — The suspension provided for in this Article shall apply until 31 December 2020.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u193	We shall then vote on the proposal submitted by BE for the addition of Article 325. o-G to Law No 2 / 2020 of 31 March, as set out in Article 3. o. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, the PCP, the PEN, the PEN, the CH, the IL and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and abstentions from the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] [[It was as follows: Article 325-G Exceptional support for informal caregivers 1 — The worker on behalf of another or independent person who has to provide assistance to upwards, dependents, disabled persons or chronic diseases, due to suspension of the present activities of support equipment to the elderly and persons with disabilities, is entitled to receive exceptional monthly or proportional support corresponding to their basic remuneration. 2 — Support also applies to families who temporarily take full-time assistance to people who attended residential structures for older persons and who are now in their homes. 3 — The support referred to in the previous paragraph shall have a guaranteed minimum monthly minimum remuneration (RMMG) and a maximum of three MRMGs. 4 — The support referred to in this Article shall be automatically transferred after the employee has been required to social security, and the employer shall be notified in advance. 5 — Where the worker is in telework, there shall be a reduction in hours by half, offset by the proportional payment of the amount of the allowance referred to in paragraph 6 — the support provided for in this Article may only be received by one of the members of the family. 7 — In the case of self-employed, the amount of support shall be calculated by reference to the monthly contribution base for the first quarter of 2020. 8 — Support referred to in previous paragraphs shall be limited to a minimum of 1 Social Support Index (IAS) and a maximum of 2 1/2 IAS. 9 — The financing of this measure is made through the exceptional transfer of the State budget to social security — Article 25. 10 — Workers of the convergent social protection scheme shall, with the necessary adaptations, apply the rules laid down in this Article. 11 — This support shall enter into force on the day following the enactment of this law and shall be in force for the duration of the contingency and mitigation measures of the COVID-19 pandemic, and may be extended.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u194	We now vote on the proposal for an amendment by the PSD to Article 48. the Law No 98 / 97 of 26 August, as set out in Article 7. o. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CDS-PP, the NAP, the CH, the IL and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and abstains from BE, the PCP and the ENP.]] [[It was as follows: 1 — Contracts referred to in Article 46(1)(b) and (c) less than (euro) 525 000 shall be exempted from prior supervision, excluding the amount of value added tax due. 2 — The limit referred to in the previous paragraph, as regards the overall value of acts and contracts that are or appear to be related to each other, is (euro) 750 000.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u195	For Article 9. the, there was a proposal for an amendment tabled by the CFP to be voted on. Should we vote for you, Mr. João Oliveira?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u196	Mr President, it is true that the proposal is from the CFP, but it had been the PS to advocate it in order to avoid its approval. by the way, he gave up this lawyer.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u197	I have the information that the PS had neglected the vote and, as I thought a bit strange, I wanted to make sure. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on the proposal submitted by the PSD for the addition of Article 14. o -A. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the ENP were rejected and votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the CH, the IL and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues.]] [[It was as follows: Article 14a Payments to suppliers 1 — Public administrations are required within a maximum period of 30 days for payment of all their purchases of goods and services. 2 — The provisions in the previous paragraph apply to all non-financial liabilities already constituted, representing this rule a payment obligation on all debts incurred 30 or more days ago. 3 — The provisions in the previous paragraphs are indicative in the case of autonomous regions and local authorities, subject to specific financial balance rules provided for in the law.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u198	We then voted on a proposal by the CDS-PP for the addition of Article 14. o-B ( Exceptional scheme for the termination of tax benefits by compensation with tax and non-tax credits) and Annex VII ( referred to in Article 14 ). o-B ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the PCP and the ENP were rejected, votes against the CDS-PP, the PAN, the CH, the IL and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodriguese abstentions from the PSD and BE.]] [[It was as follows: Article 14b Exceptional scheme for the termination of tax benefits by compensation with tax and non-tax credits It is approved, in Annex VII to this Act, and of which it is an integral part, the scheme establishing the exceptional scheme for the termination of tax benefits by compensation with tax and non-tax credits.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u199	We shall proceed to the vote on the proposal submitted by the PSD for the addition of Article 14. o-B (Enlargement of home support services to health care). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the ENP were rejected and votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the CH, the IL and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues.]] [[It was as follows: Article 14b Extension of home support services to health care The home support service begins to cover basic health care and services, to be regulated by government portal within 30 days.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u200	We shall now vote on the proposal submitted by the PSD for the addition of Article 14. o-B ( Financial aid to TAP ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the ENP were rejected and votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the CH, the IL and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues.]] [[It was as follows: Article 14b Financial aid to TAP 1 — Any disbursement within the framework of the financial aid provided for in this proposal for a law for TAP should be preceded by the sending to the Assembly of the Republic of full technical and financial justification for its need, showing, inter alia, that they ensure the viability of the national air carrier in the medium and long term, to the parliamentary hearing of the member of the Government protecting the Portuguese air carrier. 2 — The documentation to be delivered to the Assembly of the Republic must also show the guarantees obtained as a counterpart at the level of management of the company and how it is ensured that the TAP will meet the needs of the whole Portuguese territory, as well as its links to the world and, in particular, to the Portuguese diaspora.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u201	We shall proceed to the vote on the proposal by the CFP amending Annex I. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and IL were rejected in favour of BE, the CFP, the NAP and the ENP and abstentions from the PSD, the CDS-PP, the CH and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues.]] [[It was as follows: 104 — Transfer from the Environmental Fund to the Metropolitan Areas and the Inter-municipal Communities to the ceiling of EUR 104 million to support the replacement of public transport.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u202	I think we can now turn to the overall final vote on the bill.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u203	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u204	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u205	Mr President, unless I have a better opinion, I believe that we must vote first for the plenary of the other votes held in the Commission. [[Don't!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u206	Mr President, on a logical point, after we have voted in the specialty, we shall proceed to the overall final vote. That's how it used to be in plenary, and that's how it's gonna be, because that's what makes sense. We shall then proceed to the overall final vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on Budget and Finance on the Proposal for a Law No 33 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Supplementary Budget by 2020. [[Subject to the vote, the votes against the PCP, the CDS-PP, the ENP, the CH and the IL and the abstentions from the PSD, BE, the PAN and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues were adopted.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u207	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u208	Mrs Sara Madruga from Costa, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u209	Mr President, I would like to announce a statement of vote on behalf of the PSD Members elected by Madeira Sara Madruga da Costa, Paulo Neves and Sérgio Marques. This declaration will be delivered to the services immediately.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u210	Mr. João Oliveira, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u211	Mr President, the CFP will make an oral vote at the end of all the votes. It will be Mr Duarte Alves who will do it.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u212	All right. Be registered. We shall continue our votes. In the meantime, I welcome the members of the Government present. Let us then proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 542 / XIV / 1. a ( PAR) — Composition of the Standing Committee. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously, registering the absence of the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We shall proceed to the general vote on draft resolution No 506 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends to the Government an extraordinary set of support measures to the agricultural sector as a result of adverse climate phenomena in the North and Central regions. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously, registering the absence of the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira.]] This diploma will go down to 7. the Commission. We then vote in general on Resolution No. 513 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of measures to minimise the damage found in the fruit and agricultural sector in the face of extreme atmospheric conditions on 31 May in the Central and North of the country. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the PEV, the CH and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and the abstention of the IL.]] This initiative is down to 7. the Commission. We now vote, in general, on Resolution Project No. 514 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Support for producers in the North and Centre regions affected by the weather of 29 and 31 May. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously, registering the absence of the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira.]] This draft resolution also falls to 7. the Commission. Then we will generally vote on Resolution No. 518 / XIV / 1. a (BE) — Recommends that the Government urgently support producers affected by extreme weather events and promote diversified agricultural production systems. [[The vote was taken by votes to BE, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the PEN, the PEN, the CH, the IL and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and abstentions from the PS and the PSD.]] This diploma also falls to 7. the Commission. We turn to the general vote on draft resolution No 536 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recommends to the Government support for farmers affected by the end of May weather in the Central and Northern regions of the country. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the PEV, the CH and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and the abstention of the IL.]] As approved, this initiative is also down to 7. the Commission. We will vote for draft resolution No 534 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recommends support for circus and circus arts. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PSD, the BE, the PCP, the ENP and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues, the vote against the IL and the abstentions of the PS, the CDS-PP, the PAN and the CH.]] This initiative is down to 12. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u213	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u214	Sir, would you like to speak for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u215	Mr President, I would like to announce that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will deliver a statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u216	All right, Mr. Deputies. Be registered. Mrs Inês de Sousa Real also asks for the floor. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u217	Mr President, it is also to announce that we will deliver a written statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u218	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mr. André Ventura, have you asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u219	Mr President, it is also to announce that we will deliver a written statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u220	Mrs. Cristina Rodrigues also asked for the floor. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u221	Mr President, it is for the same purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u222	It's all recorded, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen. We will vote for draft resolution No 129 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — At the end of the research and exploration of hydrocarbons in the area called « Battle and Pombal ». [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the CDS-PP were rejected, in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and PS Deputies Filipe Pacheco, Joana Sá Pereira, Maria Begonha, Miguel Matos and Olavo Camera and PSD, CH and IL abstentions.]] We then voted on the Resolution Project No. 221 / XIV / 1. a (BE) — By cancelling contracts for the prospecting and production of hydrocarbons. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD, CDS-PP and CH were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and the abstention of the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u223	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u224	To what effect, Mr Duarte Alves?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u225	Mr President, I just wanted to announce that the CFP will deliver a written vote on these last two votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u226	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 530 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — The suspension of the prospection of hydrocarbons — Battle and Pombal. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and abstentions from the CH and the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u227	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u228	Mr. Miguel Matos, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u229	Mr President, I would like to announce a statement of vote on draft resolutions Nos 530, 221 and 129. Members Maria Begonha, Eduardo Baroque de Melo, Filipe Pacheco, Joana Sá Pereira, Olavo Camera, Tiago Estêvão Martins and myself.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u230	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We will vote for draft resolution No 508 / XIV / 1. a (PV) — National strategy for promoting urban arboreal development. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously, registering the absence of the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We will vote for a request by BE, asking the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees for a 15-day vote of Bill No. 196 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Change the composition of the National Council of Firefighters, enabling the representation of the Portuguese Association of Volunteer Firefighters ( first amendment to Decree-Law No 45 / 2019 of 1 April ). [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously, registering the absence of the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We will now vote on another application, submitted by the NAP, asking the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees for a 15-day vote of the Bill No 203 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Change the composition of the National Firefighters Council, regulated by Decree-Law No 45 / 2019 of 1 April ( first amendment to Decree-Law No 45 / 2019 of 1 April ). [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously, registering the absence of the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We have thus reached the end of this voting period.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u231	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u232	Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u233	Mr President, the vote on draft resolution No 64 / XIV / 1 is still lacking. a.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u234	Yes, there is still a lack of vote on the draft resolution tabled by Mrs Joacine Katar Moreira. We shall then vote, in a global final vote, on draft resolution No 64 / XIV / 1. a ( Member not registered Joacine Katar Moreira ) — Granting of National Pantheon Honors to Aristides of Sousa Mendes. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the ENP, the IL and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and the abstention of the CH.]] We proceeded to the vote on an opinion of the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members, which has already been read on the replacement of Mr. João Oliveira ( Evora electoral circle ) by Vera Prata ( Évora electoral circle ) for the period from 5 July to 3 August 2020. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously, registering the absence of the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira.]] I now give the floor to Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u235	Mr. President and Mr. Members, I would like to announce that you were present at this session by video conference Mr Paulo Porto of the PS, elected by the electoral circle from outside Europe, and Mr Sérgio Marques of the PSD, elected by the Autonomous Region of Madeira.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u236	Mr Duarte Alves has the floor for a vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u237	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: The CFP has denounced the limitations and inadequacies of the proposed Supplementary Budget submitted by the Government for not responding to the serious economic and social problems facing the country. The CFP has fought to the end so that no possibility of progress can be wasted and has put forward proposals to this end. The convergence between PS and PSD in the approval of the Government's proposal and in the rejection of the vast majority of the proposals presented by the CFP leaves this Budget without the necessary response to the seriousness of the situation. It is found that the negative aspects of the initial proposal remain and that, despite the adoption of a set of proposals submitted by the CFP, the initial imbalance between the benefits and privileges given to the capital and the lack of response to the problems of workers and the people is also maintained. This is a Budget which is a plan inclined towards the side of the great capital, because it denies the workers what it gives the economic groups. The cuts in wages that lead to a worker being able at the end of 2020 to have less than two or three salaries than he should receive. The possibility of redundancies continues. There is still no 20 % pay supplement for essential service workers. In contrast, tax incentives are created to benefit economic groups and to promote the concentration of capital, channelling the public resources that have been missing to help save many micro, small and medium-sized enterprises that face difficulties. The CFP voted against the Supplementary Budget and will continue to be struck by the alternative policy that the country needs, by valuing work and workers, its wages and rights, by defending national production, by public control of strategic sectors, by valuing the National Health Service and public services, by a sovereign path of national development. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u238	Mrs. Members, Mrs Marina Gonçalves of the PS, and Mrs Cecília Meireles of the CDS-PP, invoke that at the moment they were unable to realise that they also wanted to make a statement of vote. But at the time when the vote on the Supplementary Budget was expressed, they could have made a signal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u239	Yes, we did!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u240	So I don't think we should open an exception, because otherwise every time there's a vote...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u241	We called, but... no problem, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u242	It is that there were all the conditions for making a signal to the Bureau, indicating that they intended to make a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u243	Mr. President, we called, but the Bureau did not respond.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u244	So let us open an exception and because of this extraordinary fact that the Bureau did not have the telephone, I will give the floor to Mrs Marina Gonçalves for a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u245	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: This Supplementary Budget arises in response to a pandemic that has, in the first phase, had an emergency response, but today it has a recovery response and, above all, an answer for workers. contrary to what may appear to be the debate, what we did in the Supplementary Budget was an exercise to follow the concerns of the PCP and the Left Block and certainly also some of the proposals that were presented to our right to respond to workers and not to leave anyone unprotected. The proposal submitted by the PS, which was approved, of extraordinary support for workers, leaves no one outside. Responding to the concerns of the PCP, the concerns of the Left Block and the concerns of the ENP, we don't leave anyone out, we don't leave the Portuguese outside, we don't leave the workers out! [[P.S.'s applause.]] We know that the answers are different, we know that the answer we took was not the answer advocated by other parties, but there was this effort of convergence and, above all, repeating what I have already said, there was concern to respond to all Portuguese. This is a path that will certainly continue and is a path of convergence, as has happened so far, to improve the lives of all Portuguese people and to improve our country and our economy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Knowing that in this Supplementary Budget there have been things that have separated and have diverged the positions of the parties, we are sure that the path will continue to be made, we are sure that this path of support to workers, of support to companies, of support to our country will be a path to 2020, and will also be strengthened in this path of convergence to 2021. This was a supplementary budget in which there was a permanent dialogue between the government and the parties, which based on the Stabilisation Programme, which was also seen with all the parties, and in which there were advances that are important to be mentioned, as in the avocados. Therefore, I would say, there is a reinforcement in this Supplementary Budget and there is a way to do that will also be answered in the State Budget for 2021. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u246	For a statement of vote, Mr Afonso Oliveira, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, who had evidently been able to speak with the Bureau, but the necessary communication has not been made here. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u247	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Today we voted for an Supplementary Budget at a time when we live truly exceptional times. Responsibility, I repeat, responsibility is the only name that reflects the PSD attitude in this debate and our position as we voted on this proposal. Abstention reflects a high responsibility attitude of the PSD. We have always said this, we have said it in the initial debate and we say it here today in a very perennial way. We demonstrated responsibility for the proposals we approved, which were not ours, were from other parties, but we approved them on behalf of the Portuguese. Only with a sense of responsibility and commitment to the Portuguese is that it is possible for the amending budget to leave this House better than it has entered. This is a statement we have already made today and we reaffirm it: today's Budget comes out of here better than it has entered! It wouldn't be our Budget, of course, but it's better off than it came in. Let the health professionals say so, with the proposal that the PSD approved here in Parliament — in fact, unanimously adopted — ; let the business partners say so,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u248	What about the retreats? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u249	...that, as you will agree, they will be much better off from here in Parliament today, because the PSD proposal, contrary to what you are saying, is sensitively the same as we presented about two months ago and translates an answer to someone who was outside the support of the government, who, in fact, never expressed any willingness to support these workers. In fact, it was possible to adopt this proposal here in Parliament and this was a great moment, because it reflects an improvement in the budget that leaves here. But the truth is that we are in an exceptional situation and the Portuguese always require the decision makers, the government, all of us, an attitude that solves their problems, minimizes the impact of difficulties and really helps them. The moments that Portugal, Portuguese, companies, workers, entrepreneurs, students, all of us, all of us live are great difficulties and great challenges! The PSD, as we have always said, will be next to the Portuguese! Portuguese and Portugal are our commitment! That's our responsibility! Portuguese can always count on PSD! On the other hand, the responsibility of the government is very strong. After this approved amending budget there is no excuse for what you have to do. It is true that the time is difficult — I know it — but there is no excuse! There is here an approval and the obligation of the government is to do more than has been done: more by the most unprotected; more by the less supported; more by the companies; more to save the economy! The government assumes its responsibilities, because we in the PSD will be here to take on our own. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u250	For a statement of vote, Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u251	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Members: The CDS held its vote against the State budget in the overall final vote. It should be recalled that for the first time in the life of this government, this budget was made without essential information, as told UTAO (Technical Budget Support Unit) and the Council of Public Finance. We didn't even have access to information about how much it cost the emergency phase measures and how much it will cost the stabilization phase measures. On the other hand, this budget does not have a basic line in relation to the proposal for a recovery of the economy. Moreover, it was not even possible to know, from the point of view of support for the economy, how much the government will spend on support for all businesses in the economy in general and compare it with what it will spend on some companies in particular. in a framework where state resources are finite and are the resources of our taxes, it is important that there is no double criterion: to support businesses in general we always remember that resources are finite, but to support some companies in particular resources are already infinite.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u252	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u253	Thirdly, the proposals submitted by the CDS so that, at this time of pandemic, the State would not finance its treasury at the cost of the sacrifices of families and businesses — this is the case of withholding from source and current account — were unfortunately rejected. Our proposal on school textbooks was approved and I would like to remind you that it is a suitable proposal, from the budgetary point of view, certainly much more comfortable than many that I have seen approved with the Socialist Party's favourable vote. But it's a lot more than that. This is because there is no more effective social elevator than school, because nothing guarantees, such as school, equal opportunities and this was called into question by the pandemic. What we are ensuring is that those students who want to study, who want to work to compensate for the damage caused to them during the pandemic have access to their manuals. What was expected was that the government this year... [[Protests by the PS Spouse Porfirio Silva.]] contrary to what the PS says, this does not happen every year, what happened this year never happened in any year! That this year students can keep their manuals for, at the beginning of the new school year, they can study and compensate for the matter that has not been given them, is of the most basic justice. [[Protests by the PS Spouse Porfirio Silva.]] That the process of returning school textbooks has begun shows the Government's enormous insensitivity to this problem. There is no other solution than to suspend this process. Between students and processes, between the future and the life of these students and processes, we have to choose the future and the life of these students. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u254	Too bad you don't know what's going on in schools!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u255	Within this line of opening exceptions for difficulties of communication with the Bureau, you have the floor for a statement of vote, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u256	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your understanding. Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are indeed living an absolutely exceptional time for our country and this Supplementary Budget is proof of this. Although we recognize that the Supplementary Budget brings answers to some areas, particularly social areas, it continues to go beyond what is necessary, because, in fact, it has left out many areas, such as the artists or the valuations that were fundamental to be made at the level of the different professionals, whether they are health or the security forces—even if this can be a debate that we can and should make in our annual budget. The truth is that there are many families who do not have an immediate response, but we still do not give them that answer. However, this budget has also received various proposals, including the NAP proposals, so it is not the same budget that entered the Assembly of the Republic. We have also accompanied proposals from other political forces which have also strengthened the necessary response at this time and therefore the NAP has not voted against, abstained. But there was also another way to go: there was a way to remove the incomprehensible tax benefits for polluting activities, but this effort was not done and, for this reason, we could not follow this Supplementary Budget. We will be here to work on the response that will need to be given to the country in the annual budget and it is with this commitment that we will start working with both the government and the other political forces, because we are actually going through an unprecedented crisis that has to call us to make a change of social and economic paradigm on a more sustainable and just route.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u257	To give a statement of vote, Mr José Luís Ferreira, of the Parliamentary Group of the Green Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u258	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : During the debate, in general, The Greens, recognizing that some of their concerns were reflected in the document submitted by the Government, made it clear, however, that the Supplementary Budget was far from necessary to deal with the gravity and size of the problems of the country and the Portuguese. At this reading, the Greens decided to abstain, in general, by making it clear that our vote, in the context of a global final vote, was dependent on whether or not some of the most negative elements of the document remained or not, and, above all, on how the Socialist Party looked at the proposals we presented, in the field of speciality. At the end of the voting phase, in the specialty, we found that these most negative elements remained in the document, in particular the push that is given to the end of many micro and small enterprises which, in a situation of real distress, could be literally swallowed by other larger companies, or also the exclusion of large economic groups from the extension of the deadline for tax damage. With regard to the proposals made by the Greens, we note that the PS has only made two of the 18 proposals that we have submitted. Back there were proposals that would be important contributions to address the problems of people and small businesses, including the issue of layoff without penalisation for those working, the creation of a treasury fund for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, the strengthening of funds for public transport, the promotion of recycling and out there. That is, the final version of the document ends up not reflecting what we have come to claim. And, in view of the expectation to reverse some situations so that they are not those of the custom to pay, which are even the most fragile by the pandemic, we found that there was no such availability on the part of the PS. In view of this picture and the final drawing of the document, the Greens voted against the Supplementary Budget, but will continue to be determined in the search for solutions to address the problems of the country and the Portuguese. Finally, Mr. PSD, I want to tell you that today the PSD should not talk about partners,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u259	On the contrary!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u260	... because the PSD has shown very little consistency in this process.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u261	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u262	But the Greens will give you the opportunity to regain that coherence next Tuesday.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-03.u263	We have thus reached the end of the oral explanations of vote. Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Ministers, thank you very much for your presence. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have also reached the end of our work today. The next plenary session will take place on Tuesday, 7 a.m., 15 p.m., with several items on the agenda. In the first point, we will generally discuss Law No 38 / XIV / 1. a ( ALRAA ) — The ninth amendment to the Electoral Law for the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of the Azores, adopted by Decree-Law No 267 / 80 of 8 August, amended by Laws Nos 28 / 82 of 15 November, and 72 / 93 of 30 November, and Organic Laws Nos 2 / 2000 of 14 July, 2 / 2001 of 25 August, 5 / 2006 of 31 August, 2 / 2012 of 14 June, 3 / 2015 of 12 February, and 4 / 2015 of 16 March. In the second point, we will generally discuss Law No 41 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — establishes special public procurement measures and amends the Public Contracts Code and the Code of Procedure in the Administrative Tribunals. On the third point, we will generally appreciate Law No 42 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Alter the exceptional regime for situations of late payment of income in non-residential lease contracts under the COVID-19 disease pandemic. of the fourth point is contained in the Bill No 39 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Authorizes the Government to legislate on the legal unit system by transposing Directive ( EU ) 2019 / 1258 to which no discussion time has been assigned. On the fifth point, we will generally discuss Law No 40 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Transposing Articles 2. o is 3. that of Directive ( EU ) 2017 / 2455 and Directive ( EU ) 2019 / 1995 by amending the VAT Code, the VAT regime in intra-Community transactions and additional legislation relating to this tax in the context of the processing of electronic commerce. On the sixth point, we will generally appreciate the Bill No 34 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — prolongs the deadline for an exceptional scheme of measures applicable to local authorities in the context of the COVID-19 disease pandemic and amends the rules on indebtedness of local authorities. At the seventh point, we will generally discuss Law Projects Nos 1236 / XIII / 4. a ( Citizens) — End with the allocation of financial support by public entities for the realization of Tauromachic activities and 22 / XIV / 1. a (PEV) — Prevents public financing for Tauromachic shows. At the eighth point, we will proceed to the discussion of Bill No 133 / XIV / 1. a ( Citizens) — The second amendment is made to the special career scheme of senior technicians in the areas of diagnosis and therapy — Decree-Law No 111 / 2017 of 31 August 2017, the first amendment to the legal regime of the career applicable to senior technicians in the areas of diagnosis and therapy, secondly designated TSDT, under the work contract regime — Decree-Law No 110 / 2017 of 31 August 2017, and the first amendment to the remuneration scheme applicable to the special career of senior technicians in the areas of diagnosis and therapy, as well as the rules for the transition of workers to this career, which regulates the first — Decree-Law No 25 / 2019 of 11 February, together with Draft Resolution No 551 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government regulate the career of senior diagnostic and therapeutic technicians. At the ninth point, we will appreciate Decree-Law No 27 / 2020 of 17 June—Other the organization of the coordination and regional development committees[ Parliamentary evaluations No 21 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ), 22 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) and 23 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ). of the tenth point is draft Law No 186 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Second amendment to the system of access to administrative and environmental information and reuse of administrative documents approved by Law No 26 / 2016 of 22 August, adapting the composition of the Committee on Access of Administrative Documents to the new system of incompatibilities provided for in the Statute of Deputies, to which no discussion time has been assigned. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is closed. [[It was 13 hours and 23 minutes.]]
