ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister and other members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists. The session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 7 minutes.]] Let's start with the reading, I think relatively long, of the file. Our Secretary Maria da Luz Rosinha will do the favor of exercising. You have the floor, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u2	Thank you, Mr President, and very late to all the Members and all the Members. Ladies and gentlemen. I am now announcing the various legislative initiatives that have entered the Bureau and have been admitted by Mr President. I begin by referring, first, to the Projects Law Nos 408 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Establish exceptional and temporary measures to support the economy of the Autonomous Regions by suspending the application of Articles 16. o and 40. the Act of Finance of the Autonomous Regions, which goes down to 5. the Commission, 410 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Interpretation of Law No 119 / 2019 of 18 September, clarifying the scope of retroactive application of Article 74. the IRS Code, which falls to 5. the Commission, 411 / XIV / 1. a ( CH) — Alter to Law No 52 / 2019 of 31 July, which « Approves the regime for the exercise of functions by holders of political positions and high public positions », amending Article 10. the, respectively, conferring the period of disgust between the exercise of governmental and public and private positions and the incompatibility of political and high public positions holders may exercise any functions or duties in undertakings with which they have negotiated by the State, as holders of the custody folder they represented, which falls to 1. the Commission, 412 / XIV / 1. a ( CFP ) — Measures to promote the disposal of fish from artisanal fishing — local and coastal — and to create a simplified public regime for the acquisition, distribution and exploitation of low-value fish in lot, which falls to 7. the Commission, 413 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Ensure fair treatment for volunteer firefighters ( Amended Decree-Law No 442 -A / 88 of 30 November, Decree-Law No 87 / 2019 of 2 July, and Decree-Law No 55 / 2006 of 15 March ), which falls to 10. the Commission, in connection with 5. the Commission, 414 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Densifies the legal regime applicable to the transmission of an undertaking or establishment, clarifying its application in situations of provision of surveillance services, food or cleaning ( Sixteenth amendment to the Labour Code ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 415 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Reduction to half of the guarantee period for access to unemployment benefit, cessation of activity allowance and termination of professional activity allowance ( First amendment to Decree-Law No 20 - C / 2020 of 7 May ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 416 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Determines the ineligibility of payments on account and special payments within IRC and IRS in the year 2020, which falls to 5. the Commission, 417 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Establishs the possibility of suspension of essential service supply contracts by micro, small and medium-sized enterprises in the context of the SARS-CoV-2 epidemic, which falls to 6. the Commission, 418 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Establishs special support measures for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises in the context of the SARS-CoV-2 epidemic, which falls to 6. the Commission, 419 / XIV / 1. a ( IL) — condition the use of public funds relating to the TAP for its prior approval by the Assembly of the Republic, which falls to 5. the Commission, in connection with 6. the Commission, 420 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Establishs an independent mandatory assessment of the impact on the medium and long-term sustainability of public finances and the economic and financial viability of public-private partnership contracts ( Third amendment to Decree-Law No 111 / 2012 of 23 May ), which falls to 5. the Commission, 421 / XIV / 1. a ( IL) — All IRC payment companies are exempt from payment and enables the reimbursement of the part of the PEC ( Special Payment by Account) which has not been deducted, which is down to 5. the Commission, 422 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — establishes the obligation to inform consumers of the environmental costs of food production, which falls to 7. the Commission, 423 / XIV / 1. a ( IL) — Alter the functioning of the bodies of Banco de Portugal ( Eighth amendment to Law No 5 / 98 of 31 January ), which falls to 5. the Commission, 424 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Suspends the expiry of employment contracts of workers of institutions of science, technology and higher education, which goes down to 8. the Commission, 425 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Creates an extraordinary mechanism of debt regularization for non-payment of propines in public higher education institutions as a response to COVID-19, which goes down to 8. Commission, 426 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Strengthening the capacity to respond to social security, which falls to 10. the Commission, 427 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Creates an exceptional and temporary scheme for the suspension of the contract of employment for a non-pocket payment of the remuneration, which falls to 10. the Commission, 428 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Improvement of conditions of access to social unemployment benefit, which falls to 10. the Commission, 429 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Withdraws the competence of the Tax and Customs Authority to charge toll and fines due for its non-payment ( Ninth amendment to Law No 25 / 2006 of 30 June ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 430 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Recovery of public control of TAP, which falls to 6. the Commission, 431 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Measures to support fun and catering travelling companies, 432 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Creates a special incentive scheme for the activity developed by fairs and markets. Mr President, I request permission for Secretary Duarte Pacheco to continue.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u3	I ask Secretary Duarte Pacheco to continue reading the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members have also entered into the Bureau Bills Nos 433 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Scheme for the appointment and removal of members of the board of directors of independent administrative entities with functions for regulating the economic activity of private, public and cooperative sectors ( Second amendment to Law No 67 / 2013 of 28 August ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 434 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Creates an exceptional and temporary scheme for the suspension of the contract of employment for a non-pocket payment of the remuneration, which falls to 10. the Commission, 436 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Approves the Sea Police Organization, which falls to 3. the Commission, 437 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — National Maritime Authority, which falls to 3. the Commission, 438 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Emergency plan for the National Health Service, which falls to 9. the Commission, in connection with 13. the Commission, 439 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Approves a set of measures aimed at strengthening support for school social action in higher education, which goes down to 8. the Commission, 440 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Approves a set of exceptional and temporary measures to safeguard the rights of workers and students of public higher education, which goes down to 8. Commission, 441 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Amendment to the Tax Code on the Income of Single Persons, clarifying the application of Article 74. o, which drops to 5. the Commission, 442 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Exceptional and temporary investment plan in higher education and science as a result of the definition resulting from the epidemic outbreak COVID-19, which drops to 8. the Commission, 443 / XIV / 1. a (PEV) — Ensures assistance to bathers on beaches where there is no concessionaire, which goes down to 3. the Commission, in connection with 13. the Commission, and 444 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Extension of contracts in the field of science, technology and higher education as a measure to protect employment and combat the crisis of the COVID-19 pandemic, which falls to 8. Resolution Nos 497 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recommends that the Government extend support to publishers and bookstores in the context resulting from the contingencies created by the COVID-19 pandemic, which falls to 12. the Commission, 498 / XIV / 1. a ( Nsc. ) — Urgent action plan for air quality, which falls to 11. the Commission, 499 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends the Government to encourage the planning of mobility and urbanism, during and after COVID-19, for the resilience of Portuguese towns and cities, which falls to 11. the Commission, 500 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recommends that the Government reverse the intermunicipalisation of the CTS, involving authorities, workers and users in the definition of the network and monitoring of the operation and the definition of the company as an internal operator in the six municipalities where it operates, which falls to 6. the Commission, in connection with 13. the Commission, 501 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends to the Government the urgent implementation of works in IC2 — Oliveira de Azemés, 502 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Extraordinary measures to combat child poverty, which falls to 10. the Commission, 503 / XIV / 1. a ( CH) — By setting up a working group to define and monitor the relationship of the Portuguese State with the TAP airline, which falls to 6. the Commission, 504 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Intervention in school buildings containing asbestos, which falls to 8. the Commission, and 505 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen the state's incentives for the use of bicycles, which falls to 11. the Commission. Parliamentary Opinions Nos 18 / XIV / 1 were also included in the Bureau. a ( BE ) — Concerning Decree-Law No 19 / 2020 of 30 April, which establishes a temporary and exceptional regime of support for humanitarian firefighters associations in the context of the COVID 19 disease pandemic, 19 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Concerning Decree-Law No. 23 / 2020 of May 22, establishes rules for the conclusion of health management partnership contracts, and 20 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Relative Decree-Law No 20 / 2020 of 1 May — « Alter the exceptional and temporary measures relating to the pandemic of the disease COVID-19 », corrected by the Declaration of Corrigendum No 18 - C / 2020 of 5 May. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u5	Thank you very much, Secretary Duarte Pacheco and Secretary Maria da Luz Rosinha. Mrs. Members, we are now in a position to initiate the agenda, which is part of the 15th-year debate with the Prime Minister under Article 224 ( b ). the Rules of Procedure. To put questions, Mr José Luís Ferreira, of the Greens Ecological Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u6	Mr President, Prime Minister, as you know, TAP ( Portuguese Air Transport ) has defined its routes without even being aware of the Government's strategy for reopening borders, which is at least strange - I would say to be nice. But this claim of TAP does not just represent a disregard for the north of the country. It also shows that the TAP has defined its strategy of resumption without keeping in mind the public interest, seeking to escape any contribution to the resumption of the country's economic activity, and, as we see, this logic of the State to be shareholders, not to be sent and only to be called when it is necessary financing is not a solution, especially when that company only looks at its own interests and without any concern about its contribution to the country's economic development. Mr. Prime Minister, the State cannot continue to be a hostage to private interests. That is why the Greens consider that the time has come for the State to take public control of the TAP. Mr. Prime Minister, I ask what plans you have for the TAP to place it at the service of the country's development. But unfortunately, it's not just TAP having weird behaviors. Recently, workers with precarious links in the House of Music protested with all legitimacy for defending their rights, but, after the protests — which were, in fact, peaceful — were literally dispensed. I ask you, Prime Minister, if you are aware of any diligence on the part of the Working Conditions Authority ( Acts ) in this case and how the Government looks at this case. Mr. Prime Minister, a set of workers with precarious links in the RTP ( Portuguese Television Radio ), and who had, in fact, had a positive opinion within the framework of PREVPAP ( Extraordinary Regulatory Programme of the Pre-Care Bonds in the Public Administration ), have not yet been reinstated. The government says that the responsibility lies with the RTP Board of Directors, the RTP Board of Directors says that the responsibility is with the government and, while we walk in this pong-pong, the workers continue to live their lives suspended. Mr. Prime Minister, what's going on?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u7	To answer, you have the floor Mr. Prime Minister, Antonio Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u8	Mr President, Mr José Luís Ferreira, first of all, and with regard to TAP, as you know, the State has reacquired, at the end of 2015, part of the company's participations in order to be able to have an intervention on its strategy—not on day-to-day management, but on the strategy. I believe that it is a reasonable balance of powers, in view of the distribution of charges between the State and the private. As has been said by the Government, there will also have to be a reassessment of the power distribution. In the context of the global civil aeronautical sector crisis, a number of measures have been adopted within the European framework allowing for the existence of various State aid mechanisms. The Government has therefore worked with the Board of Directors to ensure the viability of the company and is currently in prior consultations with the Directorate-General for Competition of the European Union for the shortly formalisation of State aid measures that we consider appropriate. Regarding the House of Music, as you know, it is a private institution, where the State has a representation and it supports. I know that the Minister for Culture today sent a letter to the two representatives of the State on the Board of Directors asking for information on this reality. Finally, and with regard to RTP, following successive review procedures for decisions of the Bipartite Evaluation Committee, there are currently 43 pending cases, of which 39 truly have the approval of all the members of the Government who have to intervene, and four still await a final evaluation by the Ministry of Finance. That's the situation. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u9	Mr José Luís Ferreira, from the Greens, continues to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u10	Mr President, Prime Minister, I do not know whether you have heard of it, but today the Ombudsman has made a set of criticisms to the Government about the delay in paying pensions and also the return of the IRS (tax on income of natural persons ). I would like, Mr Prime Minister, to speak on these criticisms. I would like to stress again the need to strengthen public transport and to invest seriously in creating conditions for soft and active mobility, such as the use of bicycles. In fact, strengthening public transport is necessary not only to ensure the mobility of populations, to respond to environmental problems and to combat climate change, but also to ensure people's safety and avoid collective risks, because if people are required to distance themselves, they need to be ensured that they have the conditions to comply with these rules. Today, therefore, more than ever, it is imperative to strengthen the supply of careers and schedules in public transport, given the rule of reduction in public transport. I would also like you to speak on this matter. Finally, I leave a very simple and very synthetic question. I would like to know whether the Government has the intention of taking advantage of the fact that schools are closed to start with an asbestos removal plan in school buildings, solving a problem that has been dragged down for many years, and, if so, it was important to know whether there is any forecast for this plan to start.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u11	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u12	Mr President, Mr José Luís Ferreira, with regard to public transport, what I can say is that for those concerned and who are subject to State management, CP ( Portugal Trains ) has already ensured a 100% supply replacement in urban services, 45% in Alpha and 53% in Intercities. The average occupancy rates we verified in the suburban services are 23 % on the Sintra-Alverca line, 18 % on the Sintra-Rossio line, 16 % on the Azambuja-Santa Apolónia line, 19 % on the Azambuja-Alcantara line and 13 % on the Sodré Cascais-Cais line. As regards Transtejo and Soflusa, the supply is already recovered by 74 % and the demand is 34 %. With regard to the bicycle use strategy — and today is World Bike Day — I would like to remind you that for the first time a National Strategy for Cycling Active Mobility has been adopted, which is national in scope and aims to frame and encourage the use of bicycle. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u13	Mr. Prime Minister, you've finished your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u14	It is a very important strategy and it is a great challenge. But I also remember when, in 2007, I wanted to launch the bicycle strategy in the city of Lisbon everyone explained that it was a chimera, which was a city of hills and so I would never have bicycles and today, fortunately, the bike is part of the urban landscape. It must also be done again, part of the landscape throughout the country. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u15	I have the floor to put questions to Mr Carlos Pereira of the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u16	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Prime Minister, in this brutal and extraordinary crisis that affects us all, there is, in my view, a mark of this government and of this leadership that I cannot but underline. This mark is the effort made by the government, from the first hour, to mobilize all, to involve all, to call all in this difficult struggle, in this struggle that is of all. This is a sign of government maturity. I would also like to say that this call for mobilization was made within the framework of public health needs, with regular briefings on these same needs, but also within the framework of the protection of the economy and its recovery, listening to economic agents and calling on society to contribute to economic recovery. The sharing of information, the sharing of problems and solutions was, and it is, an asset of good public management, that reveals courage and genuine sense of state to protect what is most valuable to us all: human life, but also our economy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr Prime Minister, this call — allow me to call it that — has another important consequence, from my point of view: the obvious evidence that this government does not want to leave anyone behind. We know that this is a challenge for many, but it is good to make it clear that this is a principle of this government. It was also with this concern that this Government responded to the crisis with urgent and consistent measures, the most emblematic being the layoff, the moratoriums or the lines of credit. Some of them, it is good to say, were being calibrated to respond better, to be more effective and to reach more Portuguese. Mr. Prime Minister, not everything was perfect, we all know, but it was notorious the quality of the political options and the results achieved at this stage. in this way, the government has been confronted with many restrictions, various restrictions, to address all the problems that have arisen and that will arise. But the biggest and most uncompromising restriction was the budget. However, on the budget restriction, I would like to stress two points which I believe are important at this stage. The first point to be emphasized is the fact that the country was caught up in the better-prepared health crisis than it had been four years ago. We had economic growth above the European average, we had better deficit, we had a surplus in 2019, we reached 2019 with less debt, with less than 17 percentage points of debt compared to GDP (gross domestic product ), which means a margin of manoeuvre of EUR 25 billion, which we did not have in 2016. With this result, it was possible for the country to respond robustly to the crisis, not only because the share of debt was smaller, but also because the gains of the country's reputation had sunk Portugal's interest in financing, which was of course a great help. The second point I think relevant to refer to the budgetary restriction has to do with the hope that it now comes from Europe, an idea of a Recovery Fund, with money transferred to the countries in the form of grants, which means that countries will receive for what they have rather than what they pay. It is good news for the country and it has always been this principle defended by this government. So at this stage, I would like to ask two questions. The first is whether Mr Prime Minister considers that the European Union has the ability, but also the ability, to make available the means in good time and whether intermediate mechanisms are planned to prevent further problems. The second question, and last, has to do with the stabilization plan which is being discussed and which will be presented shortly. What is the way forward, Prime Minister, to ensure the maintenance of income, the protection of productive capacity and the creation of employment? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u17	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u18	Mr President, Mr Carlos Pereira, I believe it has been clear to everyone since the first minute that the challenge we faced had a dual dimension: a public health dimension and a dimension that also has to do with the economic health of the country, families and businesses. Therefore, at the same time, it was necessary to control the pandemic without killing the economy, as at the moment it is essential to relaunch the economy without letting the pandemic go uncontrollably. The country has so far been the result of the enormous self-discipline of the Portuguese, the ability to contain the expansion of the pandemic. Thanks to the dedication and competence of the professionals of the National Health Service, the country has had the ability to respond positively to the treatment needs of the overwhelming majority of those who have been infected with COVID-19. However, the economic and social costs of this crisis are absolutely gross. All estimates indicate that we have a record fall in our gross domestic product, an exponential rise in our unemployment situation and, at the same time, in loss of income. It was to seek to mitigate and amortize this impact that, at the emergency stage, a set of measures were created to protect companies, protect employment and protect income. It has now reached the stage of the need to stabilize this framework by the end of the year. It is necessary for families and businesses to have a clear picture of what will be the capacity to collectively support the effort to protect income, employment and businesses. And, just as it was essential to control the pandemic, we protect each other, it is also important now, in the economic area, to help each other so that no one stays behind. We have reason to congratulate ourselves for being a more robust community today, but this community affirms itself in this sense of solidarity, a spirit of delivery, dedication and sharing that we all have to stabilize this situation. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Of course, I am not going to go forward in detail with regard to what will be the stabilisation plan that the Council of Ministers will approve tomorrow and that, to a large extent, it will be translated into the supplementary budget which we will present next week at the Assembly of the Republic. However, the central concern at this stage of stabilization is to continue to support the incomes of those who are in absolute need, those who are at work are in a situation of loss of income and those who are in unemployment and, on the other hand, support employment, which is the best way to guarantee income, and support companies without which there is no employment. For this to happen, we must intervene with a set of institutional measures, either to solve problems in the need for financing of autonomous regions, for example,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u19	Oh, good!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u20	... either to be able to speed up the licensing process or the contracting process, or to have a real promotional bank that facilitates the transfer to the economy of the financing lines. More: we need to have a business-centred programme, which enables them to really strengthen their capitalisation and liquidity, but also in employment, both in support of recruitment and in support of job maintenance, to put together a number of initiatives and investments that affect the employment market. This is essential so that we do not have a serious unemployment crisis. Finally, there must be a social dimension of strengthening the National Health Service not only to respond to the risks of new peaks of infection by COVID-19, but also to recover much of the activity that was damaged during these months. It is also, of course, necessary to act in minimum social benefits and to ensure the universality of public school in order to have an effective inclusive society. This is the stabilization phase. Then we need to be able to have a real economic and social recovery programme. To that end, European solidarity is fundamental. We do not live alone, this is not a national crisis, it is a crisis, unfortunately, global and the existence of the European Commission proposals are of the greatest importance to various titles. Firstly, because for the first time, it breaks the myth that it is not possible for the Union to collectively devote itself to strengthening its own resources. This is a step of the greatest importance. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Secondly, because it responds to what is necessary. We must respond to this crisis in an extraordinary way, to the extent of the exceptionality that this crisis constitutes. Thirdly, it must be based on recovery programmes designed by each country, in accordance with the common objectives we have: ensuring the digital and climate transition; ensuring Europe's strategic autonomy, in particular in strengthening its industrial capacity and in valuing its resources. in this respect, Portugal has a historic opportunity of greater importance, which is to be able to reposition itself in this new European Union autonomy strategy, affirming a new centrality in the new value chains at European level. [[P.S.'s applause.]] These are the challenges we face and are the challenges we will also have to overcome. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u21	The PS Parliamentary Group is still speaking, now by the voice of Mrs Joana Sá Pereira.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u22	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Prime Minister, these challenging times test the ability of the State to respond robustly to the demands of our people. If, today, we are discussing the different dimensions of public response, health to education, employment to the economy, it is because over the years we have been able to build a strong social state. We well know that in the past, many see in their dismantling the recipe for success, but the Socialist Party does not allow any citizen to be emancipated. Many doubted, but we are all citizens, businesses, families, sovereign bodies, to achieve it. The challenge is now, therefore, to draw up a generation of policies to stabilize our economy and to continue the development of a just society with equal opportunities. We trust that we will not return to years of bad memory for everyone, particularly for young Portuguese people. Our government will not force us to destroy dreams and projects, creating all the conditions for any young person to have the opportunity to involve their transformative energy in their country. If we had not, over the past few years, gone back on the path of total precariousness of Portuguese workers, encouraging policies of labour stability, especially for the younger ones, we would very likely not have the same positive outlook today. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Let me tell you, Prime Minister, that you were absolutely right: light is already beginning to see,... [[CH's laughs.]] ...but it is, I would say, still uncertain and traumatized for many Portuguese. However, we will certainly not do as others: erase the light at the bottom of the tunnel only to be able to save. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u23	This crisis also showed that we are better prepared to deal with this challenge, because the income recovery trajectory started in 2015 allowed thousands of young Portuguese people today, among other things, to benefit from the conquest of propines and the increase of scholarships. That is why, Prime Minister, we believe it is important that there is no withdrawal from higher education. No one can really stay out of it! in this accelerated context and, at the same time, of such uncertain change, the world, also digital, is no longer a thing for the future. from the younger to the older, digital tools are a mandatory resource. This aspect makes it clear that the vision of digitization for the schools that the government brought to this legislature was not an inevitable, it was even a necessity. Therefore, Prime Minister, I ask whether the wager in digitizing schools, in support of teaching, will be strengthened and whether universal access to the Internet will become a near reality. Mr Prime Minister, it is particularly young people today who need to strengthen responses to job creation, incentives to hire, new training opportunities, which allow them to return to the labour market or the first job opportunity. a week from now, the Portuguese will celebrate the Day of Portugal. As in other periods of our long history, there are strong reasons for pride for the Portuguese. It wasn't lucky. The virus had, I would say, perhaps the chance of meeting up ahead an experienced people and a capable government. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CH's laughs.]] In recent years, thousands of Portuguese people, particularly the younger ones, have taken many dreams out of the drawer: of training, of their own home, of forming a family, of a professional project, of risking a business, of something that these citizens do. Therefore, Mr Prime Minister, I ask what the Government will do to ensure that during the difficult period, the difficult winter we will be going through, but that we will overcome, any young Portuguese can live and realize in your country. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u24	That was a hard question!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u25	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u26	Mr President, Mrs Joana Sá Pereira, I think we are all well aware that the young people, their generation, have in very few years faced two crises that we have not faced in my generation but in recent years. This is particularly challenging for the future of the country. Therefore, there must be a very targeted and very specific response to the future of the new generations. The first condition is this: we cannot let the crisis affect the formation of new generations. It is true that the closure of schools has left behind many of the inequalities that apparently disappeared, but in fact these inequalities are there. It was therefore very important to restore distance education through television, as was the fact that we defined, as a priority, that next school year start with the school digitisation programme at all speeds, so that the universality of distance education is possible, if necessary. [[P.S.'s applause.]] in the same way, it is absolutely essential that this return to the face-to-face teaching of secondary education runs well, in the 11th. o and 12. the years so that the processes of access to university or completion of secondary education are not interrupted. In fact, it makes a difference to face-to-face or distance-to-face teaching. For these, we couldn't fail. We really had to ensure face-to-face teaching. Luckily, he's there. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We will also have to ensure the necessary strengthening of social action in school, both in secondary education and in higher education, so that the loss of income of families does not affect the educational course of these young people in their training process.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u27	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u28	Be no 1. the cycle of higher education, i.e. 2. the cycle of higher education, we cannot compromise the gigantic effort that families and young people have made in their own formation, because of this crisis. We cannot, too, leave anyone behind in this matter. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In employment support programmes, there will be specific measures aimed at combating youth unemployment, in particular those of qualified young people, which are, in fact, a resource of the greatest importance for us to go out with companies and SMEs (small and medium-sized enterprises) with more qualified, more modernised frameworks. To that end, our young human resources are absolutely essential, and this will also be a specific line of employment policies that we will adopt under the stabilisation programme. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Finally, the crisis created a framework for the implementation of a priority we had: the generalisation of the rental accessible to young people, with stable contracts. To this end, we will have a line specifically directed to the conversion of housing affected to local housing for long-term affordable lease, to increase the number of fires available in the lease market, in order to make housing more accessible and to create better conditions for the autonomy of young people.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u29	Mr. Prime Minister, I ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u30	This is the effort we have to make now, at the stabilisation stage, so that then in recovery we can count on the energy, capacity, quality and qualification of these new generations, because otherwise the country will have much more difficulty in recovering. That is why we have to work now, so that we can count on this new generation tomorrow. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u31	It is the turn of the PSD Parliamentary Group. Mr Adam Silva has the floor to ask questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u32	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister, I would also like to speak on behalf of the PSD about the future. And talking about the future means talking about the economic and social recovery of Portugal. The PSD, as Mr Prime Minister knows, as the Portuguese know—even many countries in the world have referred to this—has behaved impeccable in recent months, during this most intense period of the pandemic. But the PSD also wants to make a presence, at the moment when we swing into the future. The PSD is here, has ideas, has purposes, which, in fact, has made it clear and public. Even today, the President of the Social Democratic Party, Dr. Rui Rio, presented the Economic Recovery Programme of the PSD — I hope that the Government will take it into account — especially marked by our ideas, the ideas of the PSD: individual freedom, the prevalence of the market, the prevalence of the private economy, obviously not forgetting our social-democratic matrix, which is the fight against inequality, poverty and exclusion. The country, you know, will have huge funding, and good! I do not like the word « bazouca» because, often, the bazouca is uncertain in shooting, it is more a kind of teleguided missile, something very directed and it must be very directed – is an unexpected mana that in the coming years will cover the country with tens of billions of euros and that we must take good advantage of it. And the government felt that it should draw up an economic and social recovery programme 2020 - 2030 — a pompous name! — instructing Prof. António Costa Silva. Mr. Prime Minister, two objections: you have 70 members in the Government,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u33	All right! Mr Adam Silva ( PSD ) :... has 19 ministers, 4 ministers of state, and, however, asks for this work — which must be a breathwork, of course — to a private person. Strange! [[PSD applause.]] On the other hand, what Mr. Prime Minister was in 2012 is no longer in 2020. Ex.a had reason, he said, to criticize what the government of the height, the PSD / CDS-PP, did in 2012 and is now doing exactly the same. If you then had the opportunity to explain this evolution of your thinking to us, we would be grateful! [[PSD applause.]] But in addition to these perplexities, I would like to ask you the question that, for us, is essential. Taking into account so much money, a plan with so much effort that you will even look for an independent, a plan to last 10 years, a plan that will somehow mark the country for the next generations, we, here, have to be clear, Prime Minister, because there is some confusion, said by Prof. António Costa Silva, who said two days ago : « the economy needs more state » and today says « I am absolutely against statisticizing and collectiveist views of the economy ». As we have to bet on the economy, on the revitalization of businesses, on the creation of jobs, on helping people through work and employment, of course in combating exclusion, my question is the following: what are we left in? At Prof. Antonio Costa Silva on Sunday or at Prof. António Costa Silva today, what is absolutely against collectivization? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u34	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u35	Mr President, Mr Adam Silva, of course, the country has to face the greatest economic and social crisis that there is memory of our memory at least. This means that we have to focus very well on the definition of targets, instruments and capacity for action. I hope that the exemplary form of Parliament as a whole, all political forces, the whole political system has been able to react to this crisis at the stage of the pandemic's emergence is the same way it is capable of collectively mobilising itself to face the times that come there, the stabilization of the economy and, above all, the recovery of the economy. The cycle of recovery goes far beyond the cycle of this legislature, it is a cycle of several legislatures, and that is why it concerns not only this government, it concerns all Portuguese and all Portuguese in the plurality of their representation, from the Left Block to the Arrival. Everyone has to make their contribution to the country's economic and social recovery effort. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I have not yet had the opportunity to read, of course, the programme that the PSD presented today. I've already printed it, I'll take it to work from home,... [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u36	...and, surely, in the midst of so many pages,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u37	That's a lot!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u38	...we will certainly have some ideas of convergence. There is at least one in which we converge: we all want the good of Portugal. About that, we don't have to have any kind of divergence. So let's work for the good of Portugal! I think it is always very important—at least in my political life it has been so—that whoever is in the exercise of political functions is able to listen beyond the political-mediatic bubble and call for the collaboration of specialists, technicians, people who reflect, from outside, because they often have an "outside" view that helps us reflect and go further. I remember that when I arrived at the Ministry of Justice, the first thing I did was call Prof. Bonaventura Sousa Santos — who had, in fact, been doing a great deal of work on the crisis of the justice system — to develop and outline the 11 priority measures for the justice sector. I remember that when I was Minister of Internal Administration and we had to reform the security forces, I had the collaboration of Prof. Nelson Lourenço, Professor of the New University of Lisbon, who was precious in this work. When I was President of the City Council of Lisbon and had to draw the City's Strategic Charter, I called on Prof. João Caraça to lead a group of reflection and preparation of this Strategic Charter. And with all of them, in all diversity and in all these functions, I have learned a lot, I have gained a lot and I have no doubt that the quality of the political decision improves a lot when it is well informed and counts with the collaboration of others. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I very much respect the opinion of those who are self-sufficient, who think that the political system can live on its own, on its own, without anyone else. Respect, and we already understand what the governance style of the PSD will be. It's not mine, and if you don't mind, while I rule, I'll do it with my style, okay? Oh, my God! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u39	Mr Adam Silva, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u40	Mr President, we have already noticed that Mr Prime Minister is doing well in these somewhat moving exercises, that is, a little everywhere, without a well-defined guideline, without a guidance line. But now, Mr. Prime Minister, first of all let me tell you that you stayed behind that non-response if you could then give me... on the question of your change of opinion regarding work, to the help of external consultants: at the time, in 2012, it was Prof. António Borges, now is Prof. Eng.António Costa Silva. In the background, what has evolved so that Mr. Prime Minister at the time found something detestable, unacceptable and now, on the contrary, completely agreed? Oh, my God! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u41	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u42	Mr President, I find that I was tired of being in a state-level debate and returned to the pettyness of politics. But it's okay! Open... [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] Mr. Deputies, the only thing that has changed was the mission. I didn't invite anyone to advise business, I invited someone to strategically think about the country! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CH protests.]] Secondly, if the honourable Member is to verify, the comment I made has to do with a fundamental issue, which is the fact that, at the time, the late Prof. António Borges has come to a committee of this House of the Republic to answer on behalf of the Government...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u43	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u44	... and my understanding is that only the members of the Government who come to the Assembly of the Republic respond on behalf of the Government. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u45	Mr Adam Silva continues to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u46	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, that answer that gave a little bit of a non-response, an answer of convenience. Let me go back to something that you have already spoken about, which has to do with the question of urban rehabilitation, the recovery of houses, of course, of the greatest importance. V. Exa, Prime Minister, must remember that in 2016, he announced and launched the so-called « National Building Rehabilitation Fund ». Do you remember, Prime Minister? Oh, my God! There were 7500 houses to be built. The first question I ask you four years later is how many houses have been recovered under this national programme. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u47	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u48	Mr President, honourable Member, the question is certainly good. And so good is that I'm going to see the answer and I'm going to send-CL to you in due course. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u49	Mr Adam Silva continues to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u50	Mr President, I continue to use the floor and on the same subject. Mr. Prime Minister, the question was good, but I still want to make you another one, which I also classify as good. This national programme, which you announced, had some EUR 1400 million from the Social Security Financial Stabilisation Fund. In the 2017 budget, EUR 50 million was planned, plus EUR 50 million in 2018, plus EUR 50 million in 2019, plus EUR 50 million in 2020, plus EUR 50 million in 2020. My question, Prime Minister, is the following: of these EUR 200 million from the Social Security Financial Stabilisation Fund, how much has it really been invested in the National Building Rehabilitation Fund? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u51	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u52	Mr President, Mr President, I believe that I have already made it clear that I have no information here on what the situation with regard to the Fund is. As soon as you have it, I will transmit it to you. But I don't actually have that information here, and I'm not going to be inventing data, because I don't have them here. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u53	Mr Adam Silva, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u54	Mr President, Prime Minister, this matter is of the greatest relevance. At the time, in 2016, we, PSD, said it was a completely foolish act to be withdrawing money that is to pay people's pensions when the social security system gets into imbalances—and unfortunately that imbalance will accelerate due to the crisis—and apparently there are 200 million euros that have been withdrawn for this National Building Rehabilitation Fund. Mr. Prime Minister, I'll help you with the answer. In the meantime, on 23 March this year, the body which administers this Fund came to say: 'It is over! There's no more! Fund's over! You're not making any more investment! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Therefore, Prime Minister, see: we have a need in the country not only to announce plans, to announce projects, but also—and I hope this is important! — to make us aware that we must be rigorous in assessing what we do with public money, with Portuguese money. Now, speaking of the Portuguese money, Mr. Prime Minister has not answered a question from the Greens Ecological Party, and I understand your embarrassment. The Ombudsman has said intensely that complaints about delays in the processing of pensions do not stop coming. Today you have repeated it here in Parliament. Mr Prime Minister has not responded to this, but, of course, this is very serious. I've heard that in June 2018 it would be, and it wasn't; then, in June 2019 it would be, and it wasn't; and now the complaints continue. But on top of this, there is another problem: in 2019, a law was passed that allowed pensioners who had once received only their pension not to have an excess tax, since it increased a step due to their surprising income, because, meanwhile, the pension that they had been waiting for months or even years arrived. This has never been applied by the Tax Authority. We, PSD, will now move forward with a bill to force the Tax Authority to which, in fact, it takes into account tax justice for pensioners. Mr Prime Minister, the question I ask you is the following: why did the Tax Authority not pay attention to this tax injustice against pensioners, solely because of the dysfunction of the National Pension Centre, Social Security? This is really the question that needs to be asked. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u55	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u56	Mr President, honourable Member, the Fund for Financial Stabilization of Social Security was, in fact, significantly consolidated throughout the previous legislation, the result of the steady growth of contributions, the result of good management, and therefore gained years of autonomy the stabilization of that Fund. What was stated, and stated, in the Government Programme is a step that makes sense as to the diversification of sources of social security financing. Social security needs to diversify its sources, and it has done so. We have already done so in relation to two percentage points of the IRC (tax on the income of legal persons), we have done so with the provision of the additional IMI (municipal property tax ), the new revenue of social security, and one of the important sources of social security financing in the future may and should be the lease market. [[PSD MP Sandra Pereira protests.]] It will be recalled that when the lease was free, in the first half of the 20th century, much of the investment of the pension funds then was precisely in the construction of housing as a source of financing. I don't know what it was like in other cities, but in Lisbon, a lot of the new avenues and Alvalade have been financed with funds from the pension funds. And why? Because it was a way of applying the investment, with a guaranteed return due to the payment of income. And so it was until, in the second half of the 20th century, the income was frozen, and then the lease ceased to be a source of income both for social security and for the private, who stopped making the investment in income buildings. Today, we are fortunately in a new paradigm in the housing market, in which it is essential to resume the lease market as a rule, instead of the indebtedness of families in the purchase of their own home and where, therefore, we have again a lease market which is a free lease market. Now, that means that the lease should be a good investment again.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u57	What's the value?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u58	And in a country where it is necessary to channel and mobilize resources for investment in leases, with resources parked in the Social Security Financial Stabilisation Fund that are applied either in sovereign debts or in other financial applications, all at risk above the risk of real estate investment, investment in leases is a good form of management of the Financial Stabilisation Fund. Of course, it cannot invest the entire fund, but the percentage of the Stabilisation Fund can, and should, as a matter of fact, be affected by the time of Minister Bagão Félix, be affected by this type of investment, which is strategic and which is important to do because it solves two problems only once. Firstly, it increases the number of fires available for the lease market and, secondly, diversifys sources of social security financing. I can't tell you what the Fund's status point is,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u59	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u60	... but I can tell you how rational this measure is and why I understand and continue to understand that this measure is dually useful to respond to the housing crisis and to diversify sources of social security financing. Finally, and only in order to finish, I would like to tell you the following: it is true that social security is under great pressure today, but thanks to the efforts to capitalise on social security, which has been made in the previous legislation, it is today able to give the answer you have given, allowing companies not to have to resort to the measure of normal layoff, but may have benefited from the simplified layoff, that we are strengthening access measures to all the minimum social benefits, that we have created a set of new social benefits, whether for partners-managers, whether for independent workers, or for informal workers who did not have any form of protection. We can do this safely and calmly today because, for four years, we have strengthened social security. That is what we will continue to do, and that is what we will resume as soon as the economy grows again. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u61	For the Left Block, Mrs. Catarina Martins has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u62	Mr President, Prime Minister, the outbreaks in the Lisbon region call our attention to three fundamental concerns: working, transport and housing conditions in part of our population. The authorities are asked to be able to act at the moment, as it is always necessary to act, taking into account the data of science, taking into account the facts and certainly the imperative of solidarity. That is why we find it unacceptable for the President of the Azambuja Chamber to demand a sanitary fence in a neighborhood because of a family of six people who are unfortunately contaminated. In order to have knowledge of the proportions, in the same county, in Sonae Distribution, there were about 180 cases, 130 of them in Avipronto and therefore again knowing the facts, it is with the science and solidarity that acts. We cannot stigmatize the poorest workers in this country, those who have continued every day, even during the state of emergency, to make miles in transport to work in the distribution, cleaning, civil construction, with low wages, who so often condemn them to live in unconditional homes. To these, this line in the front must be solidarity and we must be concrete measures to preserve their health, measures on transport, on work, on housing. But, Prime Minister, I would also like to talk to you about another subject, which has just mentioned: the layoff regime. This scheme cuts one third of workers' wages and, in a country where wages are already so low — they were too low before the epidemic — it is very difficult to pay their bills by the end of the month with one third of the wage cut, being so many families being pushed to poverty. It is true that many companies that are now in layoff will not be able to resume normal activity by the end of the year, but cannot continue to be the workers paying the biggest bill. Support for companies to maintain wages, whether with layoff or with other measures, should, in our view, have two criteria: to pay 100 % wages and to safeguard social security. Therefore, Mr Prime Minister, I leave you with two concrete proposals: firstly, to complete the protection of the sustainability of social security, not only maintaining the transfers of the Budget covering the costs of the layoff, but also restoring the funds lost by the breakdown of revenue at a single employer rate. This crisis cannot destabilize the future protection of those who work today. Second proposal: Today only 100 % of the basic wage is guaranteed for workers who take up the national minimum wage. This guarantee continues to throw many families into poverty, so we propose that the threshold for the payment of 100 % of the salary to workers of firms in Layoff will go to the value of a minimum and a half salary, i.e. €952. It will not resolve all cases, but it will be important to stop the impoverishment of families, so I ask you if you consider these proposals. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u63	To answer, you have the floor Mr. Prime Minister, Antonio Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u64	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, it is clear that the virus does not affect everyone at all at the same time, on the contrary the virus exposes the difference between them all. Touch those who live in a situation of greater precariousness at work, of greater precariousness at home and who are more exposed to contagion through the most diverse forms. This has justified our postponement last week in relation to the region of Lisbon and Tejo Valley, the entry into this new phase of defination in which we are. A very targeted and very focused work has been done precisely for the particularly identified risk situations: workers of temporary work enterprises and also workers of the works. This has allowed, in fact, an effort that has been made in recent days, to determine well what the universe is, what the dimension of the problem is, its location. Today it is very clear that the prevalence of situations occurs in five municipalities of the 18th of the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon and what are the characteristics we have. This characterization is very important for us to be able to define the sphere of action and to be able to concentrate the efforts of action there. The adoption of fences or any measure of discriminatory character is absolutely unacceptable. The only thing that is valid is what exists in the law and that has to be equal for all, i.e., are subject to compulsory confinement who is sick or who lives or has been close to those who are contaminated, whatever ethnicity, nationality, religion, whatever. No differentiated measures can be taken either in one sense or in another and the confinement of these people must be ensured — the end point! It's like that with anyone. As far as Layoff's measures are concerned, as you know, because we've talked about, we're thinking about what the simplified post-layoff will look like. We have a normal layoff regime, which has been in force since the 1980s, we have created a simplified layoff regime to respond to an emergency situation and which lasts until June 30 and we have to think about what will happen next. Tomorrow, in the Economic and Social Stabilization Programme, we will define what will be the new regime that will take effect from 1 July. As regards the two questions you have raised, I am already in a position to answer one: the State budget will ensure not only the increase in expenditure of a non-contributory nature but will also ensure the loss of tax revenue due to the exemptions of the TSU (the single social rate) which have existed and which are continuing. Madam Member, tomorrow I shall have the opportunity to answer 'yes' or 'no' or to what extent 'yes' or 'no'. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u65	Mrs Catarina Martins continues to use the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u66	Mr President, Prime Minister, we will then wait for these decisions, however I would like to mention what is another urgency for the Left Block, which has to do with leaving no one behind, i.e. those workers who, for the most varied reasons, have no access to unemployment benefit or any support for loss of income, either because their contributions were few, or because they were none and were in informal work, often due to their extreme precariousness, their extreme vulnerability. We need to find solutions for these people. The government has already signalled this need, but the government's proposal excludes many workers and has values so low that they can actually solve nothing. In our view, Portugal must create special support for these workers, who are excluded from the support so far, as other countries are doing, as is the case with Spain. Our proposal is that this support is not less than the value of the Social Support Index, i.e. to double the current €219 that the Government has proposed and that covers all those who have left out of the support so far. This is an emergency response, which guarantees a minimum for those who, having lost employment and income, do not have access to any support measures at the moment. I therefore ask you whether the Government is equating a more robust measure of protection for these workers. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u67	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u68	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, over these months we have already adopted a set of extraordinary measures to respond to various situations. From then on, with regard to consolidated social benefits, such as unemployment benefit or social income, with the decision to extend all unemployment or social income allowances automatically, which has already allowed 40 000 people to have not lost these allowances. We have halved the guarantee period for access to social unemployment benefit, and we have also created extraordinary new measures for both self-employed and informal workers. It is true that the exceptionality of the measure also resulted in, in many cases, a fixation of a low-scale benefit. Thus, the central question to which we must answer — and to which we will answer tomorrow — is whether we strengthen this measure of an extraordinary nature, such as the Block proposed, or whether we find a mechanism to solve the structural problem of integration into the contribution system either from situations of informality of a different nature, or with the strengthening of the social protection of independent workers. That is the choice we have to make, and tomorrow we will certainly have a good answer to this question. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u69	Mrs Catarina Martins continues to use the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u70	Mr President, Prime Minister, I believe that the question does not refer only to the model of the measure, we also want a structural response and we find that this should be the time to eradicate informal work and that instruments should be given to ACT to act. Who knows if, after discussing emergency measures, we cannot even discuss labour legislation? But we also need to be an effective measure in the amount of support that gives these workers, because that is the only way to call back to the contribution regime and to protect them. One measure that is too fragile in its values is a measure that will not be able to respond to anyone and to which no one will adhere. We therefore maintain the problem, both the social and the exclusion of social security. Mr Prime Minister, during the last half-year debate, I asked him about the situation of the workers of the House of Music and at the time Mr Prime Minister told me that this would be a problem of the board of directors. As you know, the problem worsened and the House of Music decided to even retaliate against the workers who protested for not having their wages insured, and on the day it reopened they were fired. I note that Mr. Prime Minister says that the Minister for Culture has already requested clarification from the House of Music administration. If, in culture, we stopped running after the damage and acted a little earlier, perhaps we could prevent the damage the sector feels. As you know, a national protest from the cultural sector is being convened for tomorrow. And the reasons are known: the pandemic left these workers without activity, but the government left them without support. The Government has not feared that the institutions that receive public money and continue to receive payment to their workers — in fact, from north to south of the country, there are unfortunately many "Houses of Music" — and instead of launching support programmes, the Government has launched competitions for future projects, i.e. the few workers covered by these contests, to receive them now, will work in the future without receiving them. Mr. Prime Minister, we will always be in time to correct. In the face of the alarm of precarious organisations, the government has corrected the originally intended unfair rule for access to the extraordinary support of those who have suffered severe loss of income. However, in culture too, the government is in time to amend the proposals put forward. Mr. Prime Minister, he forces the institutions that keep much of their revenue to pay to all workers, launches support programmes for already with financial capacity and changes the employment paradigm in the sector. We end with precariousness and protect workers in their intermittentness. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u71	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u72	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, thank you very much. The questions you have raised are multiple. As for the ACT, I want to tell you that since the beginning of March or end of February, we have put into operation 41 inspectors who were in stage, 89 new inspectors have started the stage on May 18 and proceed to the request to other services of more than 68 inspectors to strengthen the inspection actions of the ACT, which have already carried out more than 6500 inspection processes. The culture sector is surely the most affected sector, and it was the first to be reached with the decision of confinement. It was therefore very important that, at the beginning of this week, the conditions had been met so that the sector could function again. This is the main answer you will give. She tells the honourable Member that the government has only opened competitions. First, the government did not cancel the tenders, it kept them. But he did more than open competitions: he launched a line of credit specifically aimed at cultural workers; he introduced a specific standard in the diploma of protection of self-employed workers to cover the workers of culture, which, by the intermittent regime, did not fit in any other way in that diploma; in the diploma which he approved, or rather, proposed to the Assembly of the Republic on the cancellation of spectacles, he established the obligation to pay the artists who were hired and whose performances were cancelled; and finally, the Government set up a working group to answer, structurally, this issue, by definitely creating a statute of intermittent in Portugal which, not covering only this sector, is particularly important for the culture sector, as happened in other countries. Dir-CL will-me: « not enough! » No, Mrs. Deputy. It is not enough for cultural workers, as it is not enough for the unemployed, as it is not enough for workers who are in layoffs, as it is not enough for families who are at home to support the family, as it is not enough for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, who are afflicted to keep their businesses alive. Indeed, it is not enough, because this crisis reaches everyone, and that is the great drama that we are living in and to which we must respond. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u73	It is the time of the CFP Parliamentary Group to raise questions. Mr Jerónimo de Sousa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u74	Mr President, Prime Minister, the four years of the previous Parliament showed that it was the valuation of wages and incomes of workers who leveraged the growth of the economy and employment. In the context of the outbreak of the epidemic, Mr. Prime Minister said he would not return to the time of the cuts, but what marks today the lives of hundreds of thousands of workers is the total or partial loss of wages and other wages: almost one million layoffs, with 33 % of his salary lost; more than 100,000 lay-offs, most of them for long-term contracts; tens of thousands dispensed without any right, losing all means of subsistence because of green receipts; and other forms of precariousness. This is a reality that speaks well of the fairness of the fight that the CFP has always done to this genuine plague. Now, this is an unacceptable path! For 55 % of large companies, some of which are multinationals, there were millions of euros in the public record, allowing them to cut 33 % of wages to their workers. We had the opportunity to say that this option was unfair to the workers and harmful to the economy. Life came, unfortunately, to give us reason. The redundancies have not been reduced because of this and there are more than 400 000 workers registered in employment centres. And on top of this layoff there's already talk of another one. We cannot accept that, at the end of three months, the worker loses a full salary. We know that there are companies that need help, and these are the micro, small and medium-sized enterprises that are waiting for more effective help. Mr Prime Minister, the way we need to go is the 100 % wage guarantee and the valuation of workers' wages and careers, even those who were so greeted and who were in the front line. Mr Prime Minister, does the government commit itself or not to the right word not to return to the past of cuts and to devalue labour income? Is the Government or not committed to ensuring that all workers are entitled to 100 % of their salary, to ensure their valuation and to extend social support to their families? With regard to this, Mr. Prime Minister, he knows that one of the advances achieved in recent years was the reduction of child poverty. Don't go back again, Prime Minister! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u75	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u76	Mr President, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, we have no doubt that the income recovery policy was essential for economic recovery and, therefore, we have already said that austerity would be the worst way to respond to the current crisis. Increasing taxes and cutting income would be the worst way to respond to this crisis, so the first concerns we had were trying to contain this loss of income. That is why we have adopted social benefits measures and adopted measures to protect jobs. Layoff is not an income cutting measure, it is a job protection measure. We have about 800 000 people in Layoff and the number of people who, by the end of these months, have reached the unemployment situation is at home for tens of thousands. If we hadn't taken the measure of layoff, we could be sure that there would be hundreds of thousands more in unemployment by now. We would not be talking about the 400 000 unemployed; we would be talking about a very much higher number. We must be aware of the very specific nature of this crisis. This was not a crisis that was born from the economy, or was born from the companies, or was born from the state finances ; this is a crisis that has a pure and clear origin in a public health problem and in which the State was obliged to tell the generality of companies « must close », in which the State had to tell workers and consumers « must stay at home»! So either because the companies were forced to close, or because the companies didn't have customers, they didn't have suppliers, they didn't have search, these companies stopped. Therefore, we must be aware that the protection of income involves the protection of employment and the protection of employment implies the protection of companies. We are working to ensure that the regime after 1 July is not only a mechanism that encourages the resumption of activity, but that it also initiates a process of recovery of workers' income in the current layoff situation. And we have to do this as far as social security is concerned, without decapitalizing it and without putting too much pressure on micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, so that the rush to bankruptcy or unemployment, because there the crisis would be much greater. Since the first minute, I was very clear, and I believe that we are all well aware of this: we are not going to go through this crisis without pain! It's not possible to go through without pain! What we have to do is be aware of this pain, try to alleviate it, try to prevent it, and see that this crisis, which we are living together, is a crisis where we are all supportive of everyone, so that we can have the answer as quickly as possible. The answer to the exit of the crisis is clearly due to the recovery of incomes and, for this reason, it is essential that the steps that we follow allow the recovery of incomes, whether by the replacement of wages, whether by the maintenance of social benefits, whether by the coverage of the possibilities that are not covered in the catalogue of our social support measures, be also indirectly by the measures that we need to ensure through the non-financial transfers of the State, such as access to health, access to education, access to child care and, with this concern, to combat poverty in general and child poverty in particular. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u77	Mr Jerónimo de Sousa continues to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u78	Mr President, Prime Minister, I would now like to talk about an issue which has already been addressed today and which has to do with the situation in the Lisbon region with regard to public transport, which requires a more urgent response because public health conditions are demanding it. It is true that supply problems persist in public enterprises, particularly in the suburban lines of Azambuja and Sintra, which need to be resolved, but the situation is unsustainable in road links, where the main private operators resist to increase the supply, where there are signalled cases where they do not take the necessary security measures. Knowing that some of these companies have resorted to the layoff, benefiting from this support in addition to continuing to receive support for the provision of this service, and that they now demand more public money to provide the service they are required to, I ask you, Prime Minister: what measures does the Government intend to adopt in conjunction with the transport authority of the Lisbon Metropolitan Area, in particular by strengthening their financial resources? Does the Government intend to maintain support for the Layoff to these public transport companies, thus contributing to the extension of a situation which denies the right to transport and questions the health of thousands of users, particularly workers? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u79	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u80	Mr President, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, recently I have had the opportunity to say that for services provided by the State in the suburban transport of the CP the capacity is restored to 100 %. We have only signalled a situation of difficulty with a occupation of about 60 % on the 6-hour train and 36 minutes on the Sintra/Lisbon Line ( Eastern Station ), whose lot, with respect to the other lines, has been normal and, with regard to Soflus and Transtejo, the offer is also already answered by 74 % and there have been no particular repair situations. As regards road transport, the president of the Lisbon Metropolitan Area has already informed me that he will present a proposal to be included in the supplementary budget. I am waiting for this proposal to be delivered so that we can appreciate it. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u81	Mr Jerónimo de Sousa continues to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u82	Mr President, Prime Minister, we will see. Mr Prime Minister, I would like to ask you one last question, which has also been raised, on the dramatic situation of thousands of art and culture workers, who live today without a clear answer to the immediate future, but also in the medium and long term. The lack of livelihoods is creating unsustainable situations at the most basic level. We are talking about dozens of companies, artistic recreation structures, cinema, small bookshops and publishers, but also the traditional circus, with about 200 artists living in a distressing situation. I therefore ask you these two questions: why does the Government not move forward with the creation of an emergency social support fund for culture through non-competitive direct support? And why does it not extend the support to the entities that competed for the support of DGArtes (Directorate-General of the Arts) and that, despite being considered eligible, have not been selected to obtain them? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u83	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u84	Mr President, Mr President, as you have said, this has already been asked and I have had the opportunity to answer, but I remember, firstly — and very important! — the fact that the conditions have been created so that, since last Monday, if they could carry out shows in our country in safety. It is absolutely essential that the entities that have rooms and are programmers use them, programme them and reactivate the activity. This is essential for the professionals of culture, but it is so important for all citizens whose access to culture is a first-needed good that must be satisfied and which has occasion to be. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As I have already had the opportunity to recall, in the Independent Workers' Regime we have specific rules to cover the workers of culture. In the diploma in which the ban on performances or the obligation to postpone festivals was established, the obligation was also laid down that, until the date on which the performance was scheduled, payment should be made to the artists so that they could not be harmed in their performance. Finally, we already have a working group working to respond to a problem over many years, the problem of intermittentness, in order to have a structural and permanent response not only to the crisis we are experiencing, but to the eventuality of any other future situation that will occur, whether it is generalized or particular, of a company, a group or an artist.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u85	You must conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u86	I conclude, Mr. President. This intermittent regime must exist so that social security also covers the eventualities of workers in the cultural sector. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u87	To ask questions by the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, Mr Telmo Correia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u88	Mr President, Prime Minister, my first very direct question has to do with defining. At the time we decided to move forward to this second phase of defining, there were several alerts in relation to cautions that would be important. I recall, Mr Prime Minister, that when we moved forward, the Lisbon area had the R index above 1 — that is where the problem is now happening — and that there were, eventually, some conditions for this defination. The question I would like to ask you, Prime Minister, is the following: what evaluation does the concrete situation in the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon? Does it not seem fundamental to you, for example, to ensure a greater differentiation of hours that will not allow such a large concentration of people in transport, especially in the main hours, to more than open daycare facilities? Finally, Mr Prime Minister, I would like to ask you an even more specific question. We have talked at various meetings about the famous application that would allow us to do some tracking—this is the expression — without which it is much more difficult, because people need to do interviews, locate people, etc. I ask you, Mr Prime Minister: what happened to this application, about which the Government has come to speak and in which apparently the Minister of Science would even be involved, but of which, however, he seems to have joined?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u89	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u90	Mr President, Mr Telmo Correia, first of all with regard to the application that INESC TEC (Instituto de Engineering de Sistemas e Computadores, Tecnología e Ciência) has been developing — I assume that this is the case — the information I have is that it is being carried out and will therefore be very soon available. For Lisboa and Tejo Valley, we are clearly not in a situation of lack of control. There are a number of cases that have resisted the download and we were able to verify that it is not a generalized situation, but that it has resulted from concrete focussing. Therefore, in the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon, we decided to postpone the entry into force of the defination of the set of activities that should have been reopened last day 1 so that we could do the systematic analyses of these situations—as in the past we did in relation to the homes and, after a great social alarm, this allowed us to verify that, fortunately, the number of incidences in the workers of the homes was small— which has already allowed us to identify that these situations are also very contained. In the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon, the problem really lies in five of the eighteen municipalities, with some very particular focuss that are identified and where the work of public health is being developed. I believe, therefore, that very soon we will be in a position to, also in the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon, lift the restrictions on activities whose defination was postponed last week. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u91	Mr Telmo Correia continues to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u92	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, indeed the examples and signs are relevant. Mr. Prime Minister, on the question of paraminister, or superconsulter, did not go well. It didn't go well, and, recalling what Mr. Prime Minister had just been thinking about, I quote: "It's a scandal! How is he a minister for all purposes but for the binding status of the ministerial function? » Mr. Prime Minister knows this sentence, I say. The sentence is by António Costa, at the time president of the City Hall of Lisbon and commentator in a television station. In fact, this phrase shows the difference between one situation and the other. At the time, he referred to Dr. António Borges, who was presented as the 12. the minister — something that has greatly outraged him! — the Government of Passos Coelho and Paulo Portas. Let us say that in your government it would not be 12. or, but yes 20. the minister, which, in spite of everything, also makes some difference. I ask you even, Prime Minister, if you did not already have a Minister of Planning. I had an idea! Isn't there already a Minister of Planning in the Government? Is there absolutely a need for another? And I do not question the person or the function, even though it may seem strange that someone who says he is going to work for the Portuguese Government is paid by a Thai government company. It may seem strange, but I don't even question that, nor the quality of the person. Mr. Prime Minister, it seemed to me that this would even make some sense if it was the beginning of the so-called remodeling, which apparently is not. [[Prime Minister's laughs, Antonio Costa.]] So, Mr. Prime Minister, drawing on your good disposition, I ask you: will you remodel or not? And when? By the way, I wanted to know whether during this remodeling, the so-called "Ronaldo das Finanzas" will be transferred before or after the amending budget. I also ask you whether Mrs. Minister of Culture, who no longer has the support of anyone, not even the Left Block, will also leave in this remodeling, which I think would make the whole point. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u93	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u94	Mr President, Mr Telmo Correia, I see that, fortunately, the most serious problem identified in the country was my invitation to Prof. António Costa Silva to coordinate the preparatory work of the Country Economic and Social Recovery Programme. It would be good for the country if that was its main problem, but unfortunately for the country, there are very serious problems, and that is precisely why we should not consume ourselves with such problems. In any case, I would like to explain that my sentence which was quoted on behalf of Prof. António Borges came to the Assembly of the Republic, to a parliamentary committee, to answer on behalf of the Government without being a member of the Government. That, yes, is scandalous. Now, I did not ask anyone to answer on behalf of the government. I invited a person to conduct a job for the government, just like people should already have done. I know that the honourable Member was only a few months' minister, so perhaps he didn't even have an opportunity to invite anyone to work with you. [[CDS-PP protests.]] Surely, if he had had this opportunity, he would have concluded that it is very important for those performing executive functions to be able to count on the support of technicians and specialists who, being outside, can bring something new and valuable to the reflection and work that the State is doing. Ministers do politics, technicians do technical work, specialists do specialized work, and that is how it should be done. from my point of view, which, excuse me, is as respectable as yours, the political decision has more quality when it is better informed, and it is better informed when it can count on support, collaboration and the supply of technicians and specialists. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u95	Mr Telmo Correia.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u96	Mr President, Prime Minister, we have known each other for many years in politics, for my party and for yours. You have already performed many functions, but you cannot tell me that I have different opinions depending on the function I perform and where I am at the moment. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u97	I don't know if I can say the same about you. [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u98	On other issues, Mr Prime Minister, I think the examples are relevant, and I leave you another very specific question. Let us follow the examples and let us see that, for example, June 10 will be celebrated with eight people, and that the shows have begun again—and still well! But it seemed strange to me, Mr Prime Minister, that there are shows, such as the Tauromachists, that cannot happen in a place that is precisely destined for them, even though other shows can, and well, be there. Does it make any sense that shows can take place in bull markets but that there can be no bullfighting shows? Oh, my God! I don't know if it makes sense. As far as the issues of the country are concerned, and I am about to finish, few things are more important than such a structural plan. If V. Ex. devaluation seems pretty bad to me, because this structural plan is of the greatest importance.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u99	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u100	I'm really finishing up, Mr. President. With regard to the more concrete issues of today, the credit lines of the ADAPTAR programme, which are the only deeply lost, have soon run out. Are you going to reinforce them or not? It seems that the credit lines in general should at least be duplicated. Are you going to reinforce these lines or not? They are current issues, such as that of the State pay their creditors and disclose who they are. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u101	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u102	Mr President, Mr Telmo Correia, I would like to leave everyone alone in the sense that we have known each other for so long that, fortunately, we have changed our mind about many things. If we hadn't changed our mind about some things since the 1980s, we would probably be thinking very badly today, because today's reality is very different from the 1980s, Mr. [[P.S.'s applause.]] With regard to the essential issue you have raised, I would like to say the following: the Economic and Social Stabilization Programme, which the Government will approve tomorrow, will have lines specifically dedicated to micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. I must also make this small repair: the lines of support for the ADAPTAR programme were not the only ones in the background, there are several others, one of which has been mentioned here many times, which is called 'layoff'. In layoff, 70 % of the 66 % of the worker's basic remuneration is paid by the State in full to companies. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u103	You now have the floor on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the PAN, Mr André Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u104	Mr President, Prime Minister, I wanted to begin by pointing out your departure on Monday to the Small Field to see the Leave the Pimba in Peace, which marked the reopening of cultural shows. And I wanted to share with you, Mr. Prime Minister, who, on that day, had a vision of the future: in there, culture; out here, the Tauromach artists handcuffed! How wonderful! Open... in this phase of defination, it seems to us that there is no caution in opening our country to flights from abroad. Whoever arrives in the country only has to measure the body temperature. Now, this control almost does not guarantee anything when we are talking about jets, without requiring a distance between passengers and, worse, from countries where the virus is far from being controlled, as is the case with Brazil, where two flights have come from before. Now, Brazil is only the center of the pandemic in Latin America! In practice, although the risks are much higher, a passenger who arrives in the country coming from Brazil, on a plane loaded with people, will have the same controls as a 12 student. the year is at the school entrance. And don't tell us, Prime Minister, that you are following the international recommendations, because in Madeira, the Azores and, next to you in Spain, there is no fear of going further and tighter controls are imposed on those who arrive by plane. For the NAP, the most effective right now is to prevent entry and ensure that there are no leaks in the containment meshes. And for this, we do not need to go as far as Spain, the Azores or Madeira ; it will be sufficient to ensure that, in addition to measuring the temperature, passengers present a declaration of health proof of the negative test of the COVID-19 carried out up to 48 hours before boarding. I ask you whether or not you are available to increase the health controls of passengers arriving in our country and thus once again make Portugal the international reference in the containment of the disease.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u105	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u106	Mr President, Mr André Silva, Portugal has taken all measures to be a safe and clean destination. He adopted them in hotel establishments, he is adopting them at the sights, he is adopting them in public spaces, such as the beaches, and he also adopted them in relation to the airports. This has already resulted in a set of hygiene measures that have been applied at the various airports in the country, notably in terms of cleaning and disinfection, with permanent teams, the use of ultraviolet technology for disinfection, improvements of the air renewal system, the sorting of waiting rows, glass separators or acrylic on counters, sensor or pedal hygienics, temperature measuring cameras, in isolation rooms for separation of suspected cases, etc. I can leave you the communiqué issued by the Regional Health Administration of Lisbon and Tejo Valley, which, on the port and airport terminals of the Lisbon region, attests its conditions of perfect safety and operation. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u107	Mr André Silva continues to speak. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u108	Mr President, Prime Minister, as regards prevention at entry into our country by air, did not respond. Another subject we would like to address has to do with the following: thanks to the NAP, in this year's Budget, it is expected that the social energy tariff applies to all unemployed people, something that will help many families. However, more than two months have passed without this extension being regulated by the Government. I would like to ask you this: when this regulation comes out, which is already so late? I would also like to tell you about the thousands of young people who are in the ranks of unemployment today and who have no access to any social support, either because they had six-month contracts, were in the experimental period or were in internship. It is urgent to protect these young people. So I ask you: is it available to ensure an extension of the social unemployment allowance so that these cases are covered? What measures will it also take to ensure that young unemployment ranks do not increase further? Would you be able to apply to precarious workers such as the one already in the layoff with regard to unfinished contracts?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u109	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u110	Mr President, Mr André Silva, for young people, not only has the guarantee period been reduced to ensure greater coverage of social protection, but also, secondly, and as I mentioned earlier, in the stabilization programme which we will approve tomorrow, we will have programmes specifically aimed at combating youth unemployment and supporting young people's employment in the labour market. As far as the social energy tariff is concerned, what I can tell you, as I have already said, is that we have not taken any of the measures we have taken in the last five years, nor have we taken any of the measures provided for in this year's budget, and this will be adopted in due time. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u111	Mr André Silva continues to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u112	Mr President, Prime Minister, TAP is the third largest national pollutant, beaten only by the refinery and the coal station of Sines, and is in the European Top 10 among the most polluting airlines. The NAP argues that only with environmental performance counterparts can there be public financial support for TAP, as is also happening with support for Air France or KLM. We set an example of possible counterpart requirements for reducing emissions, eliminating nocturnal flights or ending the exemption from fuel taxes. I ask you, Prime Minister : is it available to support the TAP with state money, from all of us, without environmental compensation? Another question we want to put to you relates to the national virgin beaches, or to their destruction. After approval by the Portuguese Environment Agency ( APA ) of the company in Troy, with 100 ha in protected area, will advance tourist projects in the Port, with a occupation of more than 900 ha, an area of construction with an environmental devastation associated superior to the parish of the olive trees, in Lisbon, or of Campanhã, in Porto, or to the whole municipality of São João da Madeira! All this in Special Conservation Zones ( ZEC ) with unique ecosystems that integrate priority species. Mr. Prime Minister, do you know the environmental counterpart that APA requested in the Comporta projects? How long will APA continue to authorize these environmental attacks? We don't have the coast yet, do we? Is this what the government designates as sustainable tourism? Is this the new / old economic model you want for the country?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u113	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u114	Mr President, Mr André Silva, with regard to the tourism project of Troy, the information I have in mind is that the project to implement the tourist set of the beach is not in accordance with the environmental impact declaration, so the same does not deserve approval. This is what comes from the decisions of the Ministry of the Environment. [[P.S.'s applause.]] For TAP, yes, we will support it, drawing attention to the fact that TAP is even the country's second largest exporter. I know that the first is Galp, but I don't want to establish the correlation between pollution and export. The truth is that TAP is an essential company for the country. In view of our geographical position, it is essential for our economic development to ensure territorial continuity with autonomous regions, to ensure the connection to diaspora, to ensure our relationship with the whole lusophone world, to value what our geostrategic position is in the global context. For all this, it's a company we can't leave behind. And so TAP can count on us to move on.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u115	Mr Ventura has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u116	Mr President, Prime Minister, very late. It is desirable to know in which molds this support for TAP will be made since it has not yet clarified us. I would like to ask you a very clear question, which has to do with the following: you have the greatest government in history, with the greatest costs of history, which the Portuguese have already paid for taxes, and you will call an external consultant to resume the economy, which should be the role of this gentleman who is sitting next to you and who pretends to be nothing to him when he has to resume the economy. I want to ask you this: how and why will you look for an external consultant—how, in the past, it has already been looking for another, Lacerda Machado, which has not gone well — when, after all, you have the greatest government in history? Is that true or not? And why are you going to do it? Secondly, is it not true that Siza Vieira will move on to finance and that Mário Centeno will move on to Banco de Portugal?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u117	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u118	Mr President, Mr André Ventura, I thank you for your question. And, particularly because of the fact that this question has already been asked to me three times and that I have already answered it twice, the matter is clarified. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u119	Mr André Ventura continues to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u120	Mr President, Prime Minister, I am sorry, but you have not responded because you have the greatest government in history and you are going to look for someone who is not in that largest government in history to resume the economy, which is up to your Minister Siza Vieira. Explaining this to the Portuguese will not be an easy task. Mr. Prime Minister, we discussed here, 15 days ago, the plague. Do you remember that? For one of his authors of the Socialist Party said yesterday the following: « I hope that a sanitary cord will be made to a neighborhood inhabited by the Gypsy ethnicity». I would like you to tell us once and for all: is there a problem with the gypsies in Portugal or not? It's their autoarchs who say it. And the Portuguese Communist Party's autoarchs too.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u121	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u122	Mr President, Mr André Ventura, I do not agree with you when I disagree with my authorities. When they say the same things you say, I disagree with the same thing you say. [[Congratulations from the PS and Mr José Manuel Pureza.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u123	Mr André Ventura is still speaking. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u124	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, perhaps your author is the next candidate to arrive at Azambuja. Mr. Prime Minister, said Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa, his presidential candidate, that we will consider wage cuts. I would like to ask you a direct question, which has to do with the following: we are late in the payment of pensions — two years according to statistics — and we are late in the reimbursement of IRS. So, arriving was checking out what was the only thing paid in time. It was the vital subsidies of politicians! Mr. Prime Minister, we cannot put aside the reformers, the civil servants, those who paid taxes all year long and pay some politicians in time...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u125	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies. You've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u126	...that, including, they are arrested and receive from all of us a vital grant! That's what the state should think!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u127	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u128	Mr President, Mr Ventura, I can only say the following: just as I do not think we should discriminate against the gypsies in relation to other Portuguese, I also think that we should not discriminate against payment to anyone else. Everyone has the right to receive time and hours. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u129	Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u130	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, I am relieved that I will not ask you the same question for the fourth time. No, I won't, until I'd waste too much time with that. It is said that the worst and best of people and societies are seen in crises. in this health crisis, it has already been seen that at least two particularly bad things are happening in society — not only in Portuguese. They are a kind of virus that can not only undermine those that are the basis of our future development, but even the foundations of liberal democracy itself, which we would like to maintain. The first of these viruses is fear, fear that blocks people's lives and decisions and is even seen in the ease with which many of them exchange freedom for security, and even for illusory security. And this blockade that people feel because of fear, perpetuating and maintaining, will cause despair, especially in the most disadvantaged and dynamic layers of the population: some, because they need support, others, because they need horizons, and neither one is finding them. They are not finding them either because they see too many cases of delays, bureaucracies, incompetence and sympathy in some of the measures that have been taken to get out of the crisis. And they also see duality and confusion in the health rules, in the cases of parties and non-party events, of friends and non-friends, and, yes, also in the appointments of para-ministers—and I take advantage to say that we called Parliament, with an urgent nature, Prof. Antonio Costa Silva to clarify this situation. The second virus is extremism, the extremism that takes advantage of the fact that it is a good part of the world turned to COVID and tries, on all roads, to the left and right, to increase the role of the State in everything that is economy, in all that is the provision of public services, in all that is the intrusion into the private life of people. These extremists try to increase the repression of those who truly love freedom, threaten with censorship those who disagree... [[Meanwhile, Vice President José Manuel Pureza took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u131	Mr. Deputies, please finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u132	I will finish, Mr. President. As I was saying, these extremists try to increase the repression of those who truly love freedom, threaten with censorship those who disagree and exacerbate discriminatory, racist and violent behaviors a little around the world and, worse than everything, I repeat, worse than everything, condition the Democrats to a kind of forced unanimity, in which all those who disagree...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u133	Mr. Deputies, please finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u134	I shall finish, Mr President, with one last sentence. My very concrete question, Prime Minister, is this: what will your Government and you, in particular, do so that Portugal does not succumb to the fear that it is blocking us and does not succumb to extremism that can undermine the foundations of liberal democracy?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u135	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u136	Mr President, Mr Cotrim de Figueiredo, frankly, after the country has experienced a dramatic situation such as the one we have lived through these months, we have even needed to decree, renew and renew an emergency state, to live in a broad political consensus, without never having suspended democratic life, without ever restricting freedom of the press, freedom of communication or social networks, this or that, with enormous self-discipline on the part of the citizens, without the need to put the Armed Forces on the street, not for humanitarian support, or to resort to security forces, not for pedagogical support, I am a bit perplexed by the fact that our liberal democracy is in danger. Mr President, for God's sake, if there is anything that Portugal has proved to the world it was that it was able to live this moment in enormous tranquility, in liberal democracy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Of course, as you know, with crisis or no crisis, there are always people who understand that populist speech gives votes and therefore explores it. Look, this is the case of Mr André Ventura! But is that because of the crisis? Don't! That's right! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CH protests.]] How do you respond to this, honourable Member? Answer this and return trust. And how does it return trust? Robustating the National Health Service, for which they announced the chaos but who met the needs of the Portuguese in the face of this crisis. It responds to this crisis by looking at economic reality and social reality with measures to protect companies, employment and incomes,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u137	Mr. Prime Minister, please finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u138	... and with the construction of the answers necessary for, when the country is properly stabilized, when the global economy is properly stabilized, we can bet and invest seriously, with all strength and with all energy, in the country's economic and social recovery.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u139	You want to finish, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u140	Is it hard? Yeah, it's hard. We've done it once, and we're gonna do it again. And, just as we did the first time, we'll get it again...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u141	Let's see! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u142	... and, this time, with the greatest support of all the Portuguese people. This will be the big answer and that is how liberal democracy is strengthened. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u143	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, with the reply of Mr Prime Minister, we have concluded the first item on our agenda today. The Bureau said goodbye to the ladies. Members of the Government who were present at the session and, to allow them to leave the Plenary Chamber, we will take a brief break. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we can resume the session. The second of the three items on the agenda is the debate of Petition No 631 / XIII / 4. a ( Committee of Public Services Users - CUSP) — They request the construction of a new family health unit in the Upper Six-Sixalinho and the assignment of a family doctor to all users of the Barreiro municipality, together with Resolution Projects Nos 172 / XIV/1. a ( PCP ) — Construction of the health unit of the High Seixalinho, in the Town Hall of Barreiro, 215 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Construction of a new health unit in the Upper Seixalinho, in the Town Hall of Barreiro, and the allocation of family doctor to all users, 277 / XIV / 1. a (PEV) — By a new health center in the Upper Seixalinho, the Barreiro, and 411 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — The construction of the new health centre in the Upper Seixalinho, in the Barreiro. To present its initiative on behalf of the CFP, Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u144	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, we want to greet the Committee of Public Services Users of the Barreiro for the dynamization of the petition we are discussing today and which calls for the construction of a new health unit in the Upper Six and the allocation of a family doctor to all the users of the Barreiro municipality. The population of this municipality has experienced many difficulties in access to health. When the health centre was still operating on Bocage Avenue, users already demanded the construction of a new health centre, given the lack of conditions for the provision of care. The truth is that in 2014 this health center was closed without any alternative and without the new health center operating. If it is true that it did not have operating conditions, it is also true that it should not have been closed at the time, by the PSD Government and CDS, without an alternative solution had been found. on this occasion, the users of the health center of Alto do Seixalinho were transferred to the health center of Santo André and, in turn, the users were transferred to the health center of Santo António da Charneca. The truth is that there has been a vast displacement of users in the district of Barreiro and this situation has actually created several difficulties, not being the right solution to ensure access to primary health care for this population. The displacement, for many users, in particular for the elderly population, from Upper Seixalinho to Santo André brings difficulties, brings obstacles to access to health and, therefore, we consider this claim, by the users and the population, of the construction of a health centre in the Upper Seixalinho, so that it can respond and ensure the health care to which the population is entitled. This is already an ancient claim and there has been, even several years ago, the availability of land by the authority to respond to this need. Therefore, what is required, what we bring to the debate and propose is that the Government resolve this situation definitely, that it progress with the process for the construction of this health centre, that the conditions of proximity, the appropriate conditions for the provision of health care to this population, so that they do not continue to be penalized, and that, of course, health professionals — family doctor and family nurse — all users — are guaranteed, so that the population can see guaranteed their constitutional right to health. It is a claim that makes sense and the CFP has not only shown its solidarity as well as brings this proposal to the Assembly of the Republic. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u145	You now have the floor on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sandra Cunha.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u146	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. and Mrs.Deputies : The Left Block starts by greeting the petitioners for alerting to a problem that affects so many people and that harms the one who is the right to health. Primary health care is an essential pillar of the National Health Service and is the first line of health promotion and disease prevention policies. But, over several years, this pillar has been the target of a persistent disinvestment, through the cut-off of services, the closure of health centres and units and the chronic lack of professionals, a situation that occurs somewhat throughout the country. In 2014, during the PSD and CDS government, the Personal Health Care Unit of the Bocage Avenue, in the Barreiro, was closed and 15,000 users were transferred to another unit, the Custom Health Care Unit of Santo André. It happens that this unit already had, like so many others in the country, serious problems of operation, resulting from the de-investment I talked about. And it doesn't take much imagination to figure out how the situation was, with more than 15 000 users. With the construction of the Family Health Unit of Santo António da Charneca, also in Barreiro, many of the users were transferred and accompanied their family doctors. But that movement of users to the unit of Santo André caused what was obvious: an unacceptable number of users — more than 10,000 — was once again left without a family doctor, and the situation remains to this day. The urgency of new primary health care facilities in the district of Barreiro has been a long way off for more than a decade. And where there is a lack of family doctors and primary health care we know well what happens: the only solution for people is to resort to hospitals. in this case, the consequence is obviously the overload of the urgency of the hospital of Barreiro. The Left Block defends several measures in this area. We therefore advocate the increase in the hours of operation of health care units on working days and Saturdays; the strengthening of primary health care response, particularly in the area of mental health; the abolition by 2020 of moderate rates in primary health care. But besides, and heeding the justice of Petition No 631 / XIII / 4. the, the Left Block presents today, here, a draft resolution with two concrete objectives, the first of which is the construction of a new health unit in the Upper Seixalinho, in the Barreiro, on the ground that, in fact, has already been made available for this purpose. The second objective is to assign a family doctor, a family team, to all users of the Barreiro municipality, in order to ensure the provision of care of proximity to the population, opening the necessary vacancies in the next medical placement contests and, if necessary, establishing specific incentives for the establishment of professionals in this area. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u147	Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Greens Ecologist Party has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u148	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : First of all, on behalf of the Greens, I would like to extend a greeting to the thousands of subscribers of this petition, but also to the Committee of Public Service Users, who promoted it and dynamized it, through which they bring us the need for the construction of a new family health unit in the Upper Six and the allocation of a family doctor to all the users of the Barreiro municipality. in this circumstance, it is never too much mentioned that primary health care is fundamental to ensure the constitutional right to health and are crucial to the management of responses to be given to citizens, either in the preventive component, or in the treatment indicated, especially in the demand between primary care and hospital care. Therefore, the lack of primary care units weakens the response to citizens, but also contributes to unnecessary influx to hospital units of cases that could well be resolved in the health center. Many citizens, however, are faced with a lack of alternatives when responses from the National Health Service are not sufficient and adequate to the real needs. Now, the Town Hall of Barreiro is a clear example of this lack, if we take into account that in 2014 users saw the Unit of Personal Health Care closed on Bocage Avenue, and the consequence was the transfer of more than 15,000 users to the Custom Health Care Unit of Santo André. It has happened that the latter, which already had obvious problems at the level of its operation, has redoubled these problems with the greatest influx of users, although many have been transferred to the Family Health Unit of Santo António da Charneca, in order to accompany their respective family doctors. In the health unit of Santo André thousands of citizens were left without a family doctor — more than 10 000 — which is an absolutely unsustainable situation. The urgency of the Barreiro Montijo Hospital Center ends up being overburdened. This situation, in our view, only has the possibility to be resolved with the construction of a new health unit in the Upper Seixalinho, for which, moreover, the City Hall of Barreiro, in the previous term, has already made available its land. In addition, this petition raises exactly this issue, demonstrating the urgency of this investment in order to guarantee the right to health for many citizens. Thus, the Greens Ecological Party not only accompanies the petitioners in its purposes as it also presents a legislative initiative which, we believe, meets the objectives of the petitioners, recommending that the Government, on the one hand, develop all the measures necessary to initiate the construction of a new family health unit in the Upper of the Sixth and, on the other hand, ensure that all users of the Barrier municipality registered in all health units have a family doctor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u149	Now you have the floor to Mrs. Cristina Rodrigues of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u150	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, we welcome the more than 4000 petitioners who have subscribed to this petition and brought us this issue, which is obviously important to bring to debate in Parliament. The NAP follows the concerns and claims of the petitioners and, therefore, today also brings the debate a draft resolution that aims to recommend to the Government not only that it promote the construction of a new family health unit in the Upper Sixalinho, in the Town Hall of Barreiro, as well as ensure that the people of this parish have a nearby health unit again, as well as the allocation of a family doctor to all users of the Barreiro Town Council. Unfortunately, and as a result of a continued disinvestment in the National Health Service, primary health care is unable to respond to the real needs of the populations. Thus, in the same way as in other parts of the country, the population of Barreiro has been confronted with difficulties in access to health care. In 2015,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u151	In 2014!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u152	... saw your Health Care Unit Personalized from Bocage Avenue to be closed, which led to the transfer to the Personalized Health Care Unit of Santo André of more 15 000 users. This change, in addition to having aggravated the operating problems that this health centre already had, contributed to many users being without a family doctor, who, according to the Barrier User Commission, totaled about 18 000 users in February 2019. It is also important to note that according to data from Pordata, in 2018, the district of Barreiro had 185 elderly for every 100 young people. Since it is expected that this population has a greater need for recourse to health care and that it also has greater travel difficulties, it is certain that the obligation to travel to the health centre in Santo André will condition its access to health care. The absence of response from these primary care has pushed users to the urgents of the Barreiro hospital, which already present serious problems of overcrowding, which reinforces the need for the construction of new equipment. It is up to the State to ensure a rational and efficient territorial coverage of human resources and health units. in a country with so many asymmetries at this level, it is essential to strengthen the primary health care network, ensuring that it responds better and faster to existing needs. In the district of Barreiro, with an aged population with mobility problems, it is essential to build a new family health unit in the Upper of Seixalinho, as well as the allocation of a family doctor to all users of the municipality, ensuring the access of the population to quality and proximity health care. We hope that, with the approval of the NAP project, one more step will be taken to ensure access to health and to reduce inequalities.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u153	You now have the floor for an intervention by Mrs Ana Rita Bessa of the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u154	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We discussed here the petition, signed by more than 4200 people, who specifically ask for the construction of a family health unit on a land already available by the House in 2017 and, on the other hand, the allocation of a family doctor to all the users of the Barreiro Town Hall, to also resolve the emergency overload at the Barreiro Montijo Hospital Center. In part, with regard to the construction of this new family health unit, this is in fact a priority for a municipality which has an ageing population and which therefore also requires proximity care. On the other hand, it is estimated that there are 18 000 users in this county without a family doctor. in this measure, the construction of a family health unit is relevant, as is relevant the fulfilment of the government's promise — it is said, of passage, already quite late — of the allocation of a family doctor to each citizen. The CDS accompanies these claims with reservations regarding location. The former cabinet executive, from CDU, attributed a large portion of the land that was initially planned for this unit to the construction of a commercial establishment, which was already inaugurated in 2017. Although, in fact, it is a central point of access to the parish, the fact is that, if the family health unit was built there, it would be confined to a limited space, walled between, on the one hand, a building and, on the other, this commercial establishment, without the ability to expand, if necessary. The current PS executive proposes an alternative that is also unsatisfactory. Apparently, a third way is under discussion, a construction solution near a school, for which the CDS leans on a wide and well-served terrain from the point of view of the transport network. Therefore, with these reservations, the CDS will enable these projects, ensuring that, later, in the cabin and local headquarters, be discussed and treated as the best and most appropriate location for the construction of this health center. I recall that it is indeed necessary to do so, but it was also necessary in the previous Parliament, supported by these parties, who did not approve it at that time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u155	Mr Nuno Carvalho of the PSD now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u156	Mr President, I would like to congratulate you, as well as the honourable Members. Members, and extend this compliance to the petitioners. In fact, these petitioners bring here a very important cause, linked to health care in the parish of Upper Seixalinho. This is a fairly old history and is born in a health center that no longer served its elderly population properly, especially in a parish with high population density. For this reason, the health center that worked on Bocage Avenue had to be closed, because people with reduced mobility could not access it, and had to find an alternative. The alternative that exists, of course, is not the best. The alternative that has to exist is the one that will go through the construction of a new health centre. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that this subject brings together broad consensus, which cannot be understood - it is how this broad consensus is trying to be resolved in the City Hall of Barreiro, in which there is a protocol for the House and the barbarians to pay the health centre, not the government and the State budget. Of course, this situation should be resolved by the Government and by the State budget. It is very interesting to see here the parties that have approved and enabled the last five State budgets, because by doing so they have done exactly what Mr. President of the City Council of Barreiro said: "This is not a priority for the government, so it is the City Council that is going to move forward". When you reach the State Budgets, you considered it to be not a priority, and now you cannot see that these petitioners... [[PCP protests.]] ...they're defending a cause precisely because of something they couldn't solve. They were side by side so they couldn't solve the problem! The City Hall of Barreiro has already said that he wanted to solve the problem, but he cannot solve it. The problem of management right now is not knowing how to deal with this issue. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, do the following, which is very simple: try what they say they want to treat and do in the State budget, not with the draft resolutions they put here, not the way they do it here. That's fooling the population! You have risen to make the State budgets viable and have taken responsibility for your decisions. Your decision was not to make. They didn't, they took it! They're ashamed of what they're doing, because they're fooling people. [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests from PCP MP Paula Santos.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u157	You know what's embarrassing there!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u158	You've closed the Bocage Avenue!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u159	You have the floor now, on behalf of the Socialist Party, Mrs Eurídice Pereira.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u160	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group welcomes more than 4000 petitioners. The petition that we appreciate and which aims to build a new primary health care unit in the Upper Seixalinho, in the Barreiro, entered the Assembly of the Republic in the previous legislature. I was then the rapporteur of this initiative and, as soon as I drew up the report, the situation was not entirely to which the text of the petition expressed, in particular, the location of this new infrastructure. From there to here, the process was in progress. In fact, it is in full development. Let me recall, by the way, the signing of the Protocol on Cooperation between the Regional Administration of Health of Lisbon and Tejo Valley and the municipality of Barreiro in May 2019, with the vote in favour of the PS, curiously in the same month and year in which the petition entered Parliament. However, and once again with a favourable deliberations of the City Hall of Barreiro, on March 18 this year, an addendum was made to the protocol that I referred to in order to be the Regional Health Administration to elaborate the architectural project. This previous study of architecture was already designed and was recently delivered in the municipality, specifically on 27 of last month, which allows the municipality, in the steps immediately following, to develop the processes of the specialties, which, by being established in the protocol, fall to the authority. It is also possible to apply for Community funds for 50 % of the financing. The land where the equipment is to be built is located on the street of Brazil, in the Urbanization of the Scavadeira, and was transferred by the municipality in 2019 and not, as they mentioned earlier, in 2017. On the subject of the petition, four draft resolutions were introduced. None of them— none of them! — it noted the progress of the process and we are sure that it was not out of ignorance since the information is public. Therefore, the record remains. Another aspect addressed by the petition has to do with the conditions for the provision of primary health care, in particular the adequacy of the number of family physicians to the needs. The Town Hall of Barreiro has five functional units, with about 85 000 registered, three of which guarantee 100 % coverage. The total coverage is around 83 % and, of course, users find answers, in fact, as they find in other places, regardless of whether or not they have a family doctor. One of the draft resolutions calls for the opening of vacancies and incentives to be made available. Pure ignorance! That's not the problem. Unfortunately, the ACES (Association of Health Centres ) Arc Ribeirinho cannot fill open vacancies in competition, even in cases where incentives have already been made available. It is known that the bet of current governance is to achieve full coverage in general and family medicine. It is a process which is gradually being achieved and which coincides with the will of the petitioners. I would like to conclude by saying that a large set of investments has been developed in installations and equipment in the Setúbal district — I invite you. Ladies and gentlemen, if you would like, to accompany me and I will show you-CL-I will - you - who aim to renew and completely re-qualify primary health care facilities...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u161	Mrs. Deputy, please finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u162	... in a concerted effort with the municipalities, as is the case with the municipality of Barreiro, which guarantees the payment of 50% of the new health unit. Thank you very much for your tolerance, Mr President. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u163	Mr Nuno Carvalho, from the PSD, also spoke at this point.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u164	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, there is indeed a need for investment. Mrs. Members have forgotten that in fact there has been investment in a health centre, that of Ribeirinha, opened in 2012? They didn't mention it. I'd like to know what investment has been made in the last five years. You have completely forgotten these five years and have forgotten to mention also that you have already voted against PSD recommendations in local bodies for the construction of this health centre; you have forgotten that, the first time you were taken to the City Hall of Barreiro, the proposal had to be withdrawn because it was not well done and neither did the values have, and that only the second is that you were right. It was all a sight fire! You have forgotten this history, as in the last five years you have forgotten to deal with this issue. Now it's too late to remember! My lords, to deal with this is in the State Budget. Let's see if they get up or not to approve. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u165	You still have a few seconds, but certainly with full use, Mr. José Luís Ferreira, to whom I give the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u166	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I would just like to remind Mr Nuno Carvalho that there is no longer PIDAC ( Central Administration Investment and Expenditure Programme ). Mr President, you have not noticed yet, but the State budgets no longer have PIDAC!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u167	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u168	Listen!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u169	Anyway, I want to tell you that we have actually made some budgets available, but none of them have closed health services. contrary to what Mrs Cristina Rodrigues of the NAP said, it was not in 2015, it was in 2014,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u170	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u171	... that the PSD closed the Custom Health Care Unit on Bocage Avenue, which has created this problem.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u172	And no alternative!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u173	Therefore, Mr President, it is not us who are forgetting us; the honourable Member is forgetting many things! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u174	We are thus finishing this point on our agenda. We will then enter the third and last point of our agenda, which consists in the assessment of Petition No 555 / XIII / 4. a ( Portuguese Association of Landscape Architects, APAP ) — They request the creation of the Order of Landscape Architects. The Bureau now has only one entry for the interventions. The parliamentary groups will bring the other entries to the Bureau. I would have the floor to Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, of the PAN, but it is not in the Chamber, unless she makes her speech by video conference. [[Pause.]] This is not the case, then you have the floor of Mrs Emília Cerqueira of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u175	Mr President, I welcome the Portuguese Association of Paisagist Architects and also the 4716 subscribers who wish, with this petition, to create the order of landscape architects or, then, that the Assembly authorizes the Government to create the same order. With regard to this matter, the PSD naturally recognises the essentiality of the landscape architect's profession, both its intervention in terms of territory, in the planning of the territory and in the construction of the landscape, which are fundamental elements, both in the defence and preservation of our environmental balance, in the promotion of even territorial democracy and the quality of life of people. In fact, we even see the following statement from the petition itself: «The landscape is a collective construction. at a time of accelerated transformation of our society, to know and manage the landscape is to respect an identity of enormous cultural and social importance and, as such, an ethical imperative of perpetuation, for future generations, a legacy that defines us and unites us as its inhabitants". Having said this, and I would like to remind us of this importance of the profession, the PSD has a very clear position on professional orders. In this way it has, over the years, been defended in this same Chamber, where professional orders must not exist only because they exist and only as a way to compartmentate and fragment the exercise of professions. [[I'm looking good!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u176	Furthermore, in 2012, the PSD, when it was government with CDS, had a legislative initiative that gave rise to a law that regulates precisely professional orders. Only when the State does not have the ability to regulate the exercise of professions—we do not understand that this is the case—is that the creation of orders is justified: in many special cases, and not as has happened in recent years, in which we have seen a succession of professional orders, without great rationality and even in contrast to modernity and universality, increasingly, of the free movement of persons and goods within the European Union. Therefore, the PSD takes good note of some concerns but understands that it is the responsibility of this regulatory assembly, as we have already done in 2013, and that this is the one we consider to be the way, bearing in mind, of course, these same concerns. We also thank the petitioners for contributing to the dynamics of democracy and for showing the dynamism of the classes coming to the Assembly of the Republic and being able to have their voice in the House of Democracy. However, we believe that professional orders should not be created just because a professional class considers that it needs and wants an order. This is not the matrix of the Democratic Social Party, which will always maintain its perspective and coherence, in this as in all matters, taking good note, of course, and thanking the petitioners for bringing their concerns to this House. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u177	Mrs Rita Borges Madeira of the Socialist Party has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u178	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to begin by greeting and thanking the Portuguese Association of Paisagist Architects and all those who have signed it, the presentation of this petition, in what is a civic and political exercise and a demonstration of the vitality and robustness of our democracy. A professional order is an association of public law whose main aim is to defend and safeguard the public interest and fundamental rights of citizens, as well as the self-regulation of the profession it supervises. But they also have a very important role in the transmission of knowledge, values and rules to their members, reinforcing and complementing their role in academic training. As is inherent in its nature, professional public associations accumulate the exercise of public powers, in the name and in the representation of the State, with the representation and defense of the collective interests of their profession. The State has given the organized professions itself the task of regulation and professional supervision, in particular the fulfilment of ethical duties and good professional practice and the obligation to prosecute in the event of infringement. The good name of your professionals is the greatest recognition that an order can aspire to. For all this, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group recognises the fundamental importance of professional orders in the implementation of rules and control mechanisms in the labour market, in the exercise of their professions, in the reliability that the activity transmits to society and in confidence to professionals themselves. We understand the claim of petitioners to protect and dignify the activity they represent and their professionals. It is said that when we read the text of this petition, we feel the pride, the brightness, the daily self - denial of their cause. Mrs. Members, since 2013 whether the European Union, either through the European Council, the European Commission or the European Parliament, urges Member States to identify and remove barriers to access to regulated professions in order to create new jobs, increase productivity, investment and innovation. The Competition Authority has also drawn up an action plan for legislative and regulatory reform for liberal professions, with some proposals for amendments to the legal regime of professional associations.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u179	And that's what you saw!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u180	Thus, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, at the beginning of this legislature, undertook to carry out an analysis and a deep reflection on the current regulatory framework for access to professions, on the basis of the recommendations made by the European Commission and the Competition Authority, in order to study a policy favourable to growth, innovation and job creation, identifying restrictions not justified by the public interest or inadequate, unnecessary or disproportionate in relation to its legitimate objective. in this sense, we find ourselves at this moment in hearing with the orders, associations representatives and with some associations of young professionals, in order to feel their thoughts about these recommendations and the relevance of them. Having said this, I reiterate that, by longing for and reaching the meaning, relevance and justice of the petition itself, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group considers that, as long as the work that is being prepared with all professional orders and as long as this work is not completed, it does not appear to be adjusted for now, and at this time, the creation of a new professional order. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u181	Now, yes, you have the floor, for an intervention, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u182	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Despite the object and the fundamental question of this petition—and I begin to greet the petitioners for bringing their concerns to us regarding what might be the self-regulation of their own class through a professional order—, it is never too much to remember that since 1975, with the first generation of landscape architects, they have been contributing to a change of ecological paradigm in Portugal. They created integrated views about biodiversity, urban planning, rural and urban landscapes or the territory itself, thus bringing a vision of the natural world to the city, often left behind. By its hand, landscapes have recovered, urban spaces have been dignified, sociability spaces have been created that are also spaces for the enjoyment of nature and, obviously, of family and social life. During all these years, landscape architects have, in fact, worked to dignify their profession, have fought against the continuing devaluation of academic pathways and have worked actively to ensure that, at central level, but especially in local authorities, there was a concerted understanding of the importance of green areas, so often neglected — just to see that they have arrived at this Assembly issues about the treery itself, issues that are not smaller, but rather in a lower quality of life and environmental in cities — working as a counterweight on the balance of human pressure on natural and water resources, especially in large cities. Thanks to this profession, the appreciation of the landscape heritage in Portugal is today a reality, and it is also emphasized that these professionals are promoters of a more ecological and sustainable future by the vision they have brought to the cities. Thus, it seems to us that a debate has to be held around the claim brought here by the petitioners, not only in the sense of creating their own professional order, without prejudice to the debate that has been mentioned and that has to be done, around all professional orders, but also that it ends up valuing the work and the vision that landscape architects have to offer us, especially when we face challenges as profound as climate change or the degradation and loss of ecosystems. Nor can we forget that, in the urban context, it is essential that someone be the guarantor of this vision. in this sense, I should like to thank the petitioners once again for bringing here their concerns, which will not fail to be present in those that may be our political decisions about our future, our cities and our sustainability.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u183	You have the floor, for an intervention, Mrs Isabel Pires of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u184	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, the Left Block Parliamentary Group wishes to congratulate the more than 4000 petitioners who have subscribed to this petition and the Portuguese Association of Landscape Architects, which has dynamized it. Secondly, I would also like to note the position that the Left Block historically has in relation to professional orders, which is already widely known and also by the petitioners themselves. In fact, we do not consider this to be the privileged way of recognising the rights of certain professions, not even their workers, especially in the area of profession regulation, which is a competence of the Government, which must always be attentive to the needs that arise over time for all professions. There was already an opportunity for the parties to be able to hear directly the demands of the petitioners, at the hearing of the Commission, and we do not neglect, in any case, the need for regulation of a profession that has a fundamental role in the way we think of our cities, as we think the intervention that landscape architecture can have in the framework of urbanism, or even of architecture with environmental concerns, which are increasingly pressing in our cities. Therefore, landscape architecture has a fundamental role to play that, I believe, nobody is disappointed in this debate. It is therefore important that this regulation exists, that the intervention framework of these professionals is well defined, but we do not consider the creation of another professional order to be the best solution, even though we have not been obstructing proposals in other professions that go so far. Moreover, at the very hearing of the petitioners in the Commission, alternative proposals have also emerged that could even help to address the shortcomings that have been identified. Therefore, in this and other professions, we have been alerting the government to the need for regulation. We will continue to do so, of course, and, considering that there are several possibilities on the table, we will not be hampered by the improvement and regulation of a profession which is of great relevance. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u185	Mr Bruno Dias, from the CFP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u186	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On behalf of the PCP, we would like to greet the Portuguese Association of Paisagist Architects and the 4700 citizens who have subscribed to this petition. In fact, we take into account the text of the petition itself and therefore welcome the landscape architects for the important role they have played in safeguarding the public interest, underlying the proper planning of the territory, the rational use of natural resources and the protection and preservation of environmental balance, promoting territorial democracy and improving the quality of life of all people. We all know — or we should know — the seriousness of the problems and threats that affect or prevent the full exercise of this role, in the context of working relationships in which exploitation, subcontracting, economic dependence are objective realities not only in companies in this sector but, of course, in the degradation of public services in this field. Not only is the profession deregulated as access to order is increasingly distorted, restricted and unequal, in which the dominant interests have in practice favored unfair competition and dumping practices, situations of predatory competitiveness between companies and even between professionals, crushing prices, wages and rights. We have always said, and we reaffirm, that Law No. 40 / 2015, but also Law No. 41 / 2015, regarding this reality, are part of the problem and not part of the solution. The fight against precariousness in the landscape architect's profession requires greater appreciation of the profession at the level of public order, but also by inverting this path of dismantling the public practice of landscape architecture, when it is found that state and public sector continue to have no priority in the hiring of these professionals in the field of spatial planning and landscape policies. As the text of the petition well says, "the landscape is a collective construction and to know and manage the landscape is to respect an identity of enormous cultural and social importance and, as such, an ethical imperative of perpetuation, for future generations, a legacy that defines us and unites us as its inhabitants. Do not keep on seeking. ” The position of the reserve PCP regarding the creation and proliferation of professional orders is known. We believe that it is the workers of each profession who have to choose their forms of professional representation and these forms of representation must be as free as possible from any guardianship. We know that professional orders are objectively the placement of a professional entity under the protection of the State, exercising the powers delegated to them: access to the profession, approval of higher courses and their curricula of training. We also know that the proliferation of orders did not in itself mean social recognition to their respective professions, and that is all the more significant and, in general, they are entities whose potential professionals have increased rapidly and whose employment situation is, in the vast majority, of wage, deregulation and precariousness. This concrete situation leads to the fact that, in professions where there are older or more recent orders, the question that has been raised is that of the mobilization and organization of these workers in the defence of their economic and social rights. The knowledge and respect of landscape architects, the respect for their rights, the appreciation of their condition, their technical and scientific quality require, from the outset, a final point of view to this framework of precariousness and deregulation and unfair competition in a fundamental sector for our country. They can continue to count on the CFP in this fight. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u187	To close this item on our agenda, Mr João Pinho de Almeida, from the CDS-PP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u188	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would first like to greet the 4716 petitioners, from then on the Portuguese Association of Landscape Architects. This is a petition that passes from the past legislature, so we are dealing with this issue with a rather significant difference in time and I believe that Parliament should also be penalized for that. Obviously, this has consequences on the concrete content of what we are dealing with. Still, what I wanted to say in three points is simple: first of all, as we all said here, the question of recognition of the importance of the landscape architect profession. The evolution of care in public policies of urbanism and in public policies of balance in resource management has much to do with the intervention of specialized professionals, who, of course, can contribute both to the planning of the territory, or to this balance, or to this adequate management of resources in a very concrete way. Then there is the issue of regulation of professions, having the problem, which is persistent, of finding that the creation of professional associations, the creation of orders, is the only way to solve problems that often exist in certain professions. It is not, and often it is not even the best way to do or especially help to solve these problems. Professional associations exist for some specific issues: specialized access to the profession; differentiated access to the profession that justifies a protection of a proper association to regulate that access; ethical issues and technical issues that, by their specialty, justify that it is a professional association to deal with them and that the State cannot do so directly; disciplinary issues; disciplinary regulation and application of this disciplinary regulation in a way that cannot be done directly by the State through the law, having to exist, beyond the law, this own and specific disciplinary protection. All these conditions are cumulative, in the understanding of the law that currently prevails. Therefore, it is in this framework that we have to assess whether or not the creation of each of the new professional orders is proposed. in this sense, what we have to say, for example, regarding a possible creation of the order of landscape architects is that the study itself that is invoked in this petition is a study prior to the current legal regime. Thus, it does not even agree—not because of the petitioners or the association, but because of a review of the law which, however, existed—with the current assumptions of the law. in this sense, the position of the CDS is no different from that of any parliamentary group in this House — this should be clarified. It is not the more or less benevolent speeches that make the difference in the treatment that each parliamentary group here has given to this matter. In fact, no parliamentary group submits a proposal for the creation of the order of landscape architects and we do not present it either. We assume that, and we assume that because of the reasons we have presented before. It is not a question of the dignity of the profession, it is not a question of its importance, it is a question of the fact that we understand that the scheme of professional associations is not the only way — and often is not the best — to resolve issues that arise within each profession.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u189	Before you announce the agenda for tomorrow's meeting, Mr. Secretary of the Bureau will make a warning to the House.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u190	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I announce the report of the Members who were present, by video conference, at today's plenary meeting: PS Member Marta Freitas and PSD Member Sérgio Marques, elected by the Autonomous Region of Madeira, and Members of PS Isabel Rodrigues and João Azevedo Castro, elected by the Autonomous Region of the Azores.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-03.u191	We have thus reached the end of this meeting. from the agenda of tomorrow's meeting, which will begin at 3 p.m., there is a first item on the discussion of draft resolution No 486 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen the support and relaunch of tourism in Portugal in the context of the consequences of the COVID-19 pandemic. As a second point we have the joint discussion, in general, of Bill Nos 377 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Suspends Articles 16. o and 40. the Financial Act of the Autonomous Regions, in order to provide the Autonomous Regions with all the financial means possible to cope with the effects of the disease pandemic COVID-19, 378 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Referral to the Autonomous Region of Madeira for the payment of the charges arising from the PAEF loan ( Economic and Financial Assistance Programme ), in order to provide the region with all the financial means possible to cope with the effects of the disease pandemic COVID-19 and 408 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Establish exceptional and temporary measures to support the economy of the Autonomous Regions by suspending the application of Articles 16. o and 40. the Law of the Finances of the Autonomous Regions. The third point provides for discussion of Parliamentary Assessments Nos 12 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Concerning Decree-Law No 20 / 2020 of 1 May amending the exceptional and temporary measures relating to the Covid-19 pandemic, corrected by the Declaration of Corrigendum No 18 - C / 2020, 13 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Concerning Decree-Law No 20 / 2020 of 1 May, amending the exceptional and temporary measures relating to the pandemic of the disease COVID-19, corrected by the Declaration of Corrigendum No 18 - C / 2020 of 5 May, of the Presidency of the Council of Ministers and 20 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Concerning Decree-Law No 20 / 2020 of 1 May, which amends the exceptional and temporary measures relating to the pandemic of the disease COVID-19, corrected by the Declaration of Corrigendum No 18 - C / 2020 of 5 May. The fourth point consists in the general discussion of Bill Nos 347 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Creates support for the income of individual micro-enterprises and entrepreneurs in the context of the response to the epidemic of COVID-19, 348 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Establishs the exceptional and temporary measure of the admissibility of suspension of essential service supply contracts in the context of responses to the epidemic crisis of COVID-19, 349 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Establish the network of contact and support to microenterprises and individual entrepreneurs for access to response measures for the epidemic by COVID-19, 350 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Establishs fiscal measures to support micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, 351 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Ensure access by micro, small and medium-sized enterprises and individual entrepreneurs to public support created in response to the epidemic outbreak of COVID-19, 366 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Creates the regime of support for the resumption and dynamization of the activities of the vendors in the supply to the populations, in the context of the response to the epidemic of COVID-19, 416 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Determines the ineligibility of payments on account and special payments within IRC ( corporate income tax ) and IRS ( income tax on natural persons ), in 2020, 417 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Establishs the possibility of suspension of essential service supply contracts by micro, small and medium-sized enterprises in the context of the SARS-CoV-2 epidemic, 418 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Establishs special support measures for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises in the context of the SARS-CoV-2 epidemic, 421 / XIV / 1. a ( IL) — All CFP companies (payment on account) of IRC and enables the reimbursement of the CFP share (special payment on account) that has not been deducted, 431 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Measures to support fun and catering travelling companies and 432 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Creates a special incentive scheme for the activity developed by fairs and markets. of the fifth point is the discussion of Resolution Projects Nos 464 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Establishment of a possible committee to monitor the implementation of response measures to the epidemic of COVID-19, 468 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Creates a possible committee to monitor the economic and social recovery process and 479 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Establishment of a possible committee for monitoring and evaluating the effectiveness, budgetary impact and transparency of the response and recovery measures of the health, economic and social crisis caused by COVID-19. The sixth point provides for discussion of Resolution Projects Nos 447 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government not support polluting industries in the context of the COVID-19 and 430 / XIV / 1 crisis. a (PEV) — Recommends that the Government do not rescue large polluting industries in the period of influence of COVID-19 and in the relaunch of the economy. Finally, the seventh and last item on the agenda consists of the joint discussion, in general, of the Bill Nos. 15 / XIV / 1. a ( ALRAM ) — Amends the Code of the Tax on the Income of Single Persons, approved by Decree-Law No 442 -A / 88 of 30 November - By eliminating taxation, at the IRS headquarters, on compensation and subsidies taken by Portuguese firefighters in the provision of voluntary service and draft Law No 413 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Ensure fair treatment for volunteer firefighters ( Amended Decree-Law No 442 -A / 88 of 30 November, Decree-Law No 87 / 2019 of 2 July, and Decree-Law No 55 / 2006 of 15 March ). We are therefore expected to hold a meeting tomorrow with a lot and a lot of debates. We are thus at the end of our session. To all and to all I wish to continue in a good afternoon and until tomorrow. [[It was 17 hours and 58 minutes.]]
