ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists. Let's start the session. [[It was 10 hours and 2 minutes.]] Mrs. Members, although not all parliamentary groups are yet present, as there is much record that it is important for us to learn, I ask the Secretary of the Bureau, Mr Nelson Peralta, to announce. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, have entered the Bureau, and have been admitted, draft resolution No 359 / XIV / 1. a ( PAR) — Suspension of the period of operation of the Parliamentary Investigation Committee for the State's Action in the Granting of Support in the 2017 Fire sequence in the Interior Pinhal Zone and Parliamentary Assessments Nos 8 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Concerning Decree-Law No 10 - D / 2020 of 23 March ( Establishs exceptional and temporary measures to respond to the COVID-19 disease epidemic related to the electronic communications sector) and 9 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Concerning Decree-Law No 10 -A / 2020 of 13 March ( Approves a set of measures relating to the epidemiological situation of the new Coronavirus — COVID-19 ). They also entered the Bureau, and were also admitted, Law Proposals Nos 20 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — establishes an exceptional regime for compliance with the measures provided for in the Municipal Adjustment Programmes as well as an exceptional system for indebtedness of local authorities in the context of the COVID 19 and 21 / XIV / 1 disease pandemic. a ( GOV ) — establishes an exceptional regime for situations of late payment of due income under housing and non-residential urban lease contracts under the COVID-19 pandemic. Finally, they also entered the Bureau, and were admitted, the following bills: No. 264 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Enlarge, pursuant to Decree-Law No 10 -A / 2020 of 13 March, the shortcomings justified during Easter holidays and recognises the shortcomings for assistance to dependent elderly persons; No. 265 / XIV / 1. a (PV) — Change the television law so as to provide that the public television service ensures stimulating and adequate programming of physical exercise and good nutrition, in case of prolonged social isolation; No. 266 / XIV / 1. a (PV) — sets the maximum number of daily and weekly hours for workers on telework to assist children and dependents; No. 269 / XIV / 1. a (PV) — Prevents banking institutions from charging any commission for operations carried out through digital applications or online platforms, while determining or requesting social isolation from COVID-19; No. 271 / XIV / 1. a (PV) — Strengthening of the social security telephone line; No. 272 / XIV / 1. a (CH) — by awarding a period of three months of moratorium on housing and non-residential leases; No 273 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Amends Decree-Law No 10 - J / 2020 of 26 March by strengthening support for social economy entities; No. 274 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Alter the Decree-Law No 10 -A / 2020 of 13 March, Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March, and Decree-Law No 10 - K / 2020 of 26 March, giving greater protection to professionals, families and risk groups in response to the epidemiological situation COVID-19 ; No. 275 / XIV / 1. a (PV) — suspends payment for accommodation in university residence while the restrictive measures relating to COVID-19 are determined ; No. 276 / XIV / 1. a (PV) — suspends payment of propines while the restrictive measures relating to COVID-19 are determined ; No. 277 / XIV / 1. a (PV) — suspends all public participation and consultation proceedings, while imposing or advising social isolation as a result of the COVID-19 ; No. 278 / XIV / 1. a (PV) — Allowance of allowances to workers in risk, penosity and insanity conditions; No. 279 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Support for fishing workers for the suspension of the activity due to COVID-19, through the Salary Compensation Fund for Fisheries Professionals ; No 280 / XIV / 1. a (PV) — COVID-19 — Creates a free line of support for the population to promote mental health; No. 281 / XIV / 1. a (PV) — sets out the extension of the duration of the learning licences; No 282 / XIV / 1. a (BE) — Emergency measures to respond to the economic crisis; No 283 / XIV / 1. a (BE) — Emergency measures to respond to the pandemic crisis; No 284 / XIV / 1. a (BE) — Emergency measures to respond to the social crisis; No. 285 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Suspends the legal deadlines and the practice of procedural and procedural acts until the exceptional situation of prevention, containment, mitigation and treatment of the epidemiological infection by SARS-CoV-2 and the disease COVID-19 ceases ; No. 286 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — establishes a capital shortage scheme to apply to housing credits; No. 287 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Exceptional support measures for higher education students; No. 288 / XIV / 1. a ( CFP ) — Approves a set of exceptional and temporary measures to safeguard the rights of workers of the national scientific and technological system and of scientific, technical and management work; No. 289 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Establish exceptional measures to strengthen the response of the National Health Service in the treatment of patients with COVID-19 ; No. 290 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Determines the invalidity of acts performed in violation of the Labour Code rules or other special labour legislation in the period during which exceptional and temporary measures to respond to the epidemic by COVID-19 are in force ; No 291 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — makes the layoff scheme simplified more comprehensive ( first amendment to Decree-Law No 10 - G / 2020 of 26 March ) ; No. 292 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Takes measures to ensure the financial balance of local authorities ( First Amendment to Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March — Exceptional and temporary measures to respond to the epidemiological situation caused by the coronavirus SARS-CoV-2 and the disease COVID-19); No. 293 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Creates an emergency social support fund for cultural and artistic fabric; No. 294 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — establishes extraordinary clauses and mechanisms in public-private road partnerships; No. 295 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Define contingency measures for food supply; No. 296 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Consecrates the exemption of proof that the COVID-19 disease contracted by workers of essential services and related activities is a necessary and direct consequence of the activity carried out, for the purposes of the application of the occupational disease regime; No. 297 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — lays down the prohibition on the interruption of the provision of certain essential services; No. 298 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — establishes an exceptional and temporary system of maximum prices for liquid fuels; No. 299 / XIV / 1. a ( CFP ) — Response to the situation caused by the outbreak of COVID-19 in the fisheries sector; No. 300 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Suspension of contributions to the case of lawyers and applicants. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u3	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary-General Nelson Peralta. Mrs. Members, it is also important to vote on an opinion from the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members, which Mr Duarte Pacheco will report to us. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u4	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the opinion of the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members refers to the suspension of the term of office of Mr Duarte Marques ( PSD ), the electoral circle of Santarém, being replaced by Sonia Patrícia Silva Ferreira Quintino, from 2 April 2020 to 15 May 2020, including in accordance with Article 4(1) ( a ). Article 5 ( 2 ( b ). Article 9 ( 1 ) and ( 1 ). the Statute of the Deputies. The opinion is that the suspension and replacement concerned should be admitted, since the legal requirements have been met.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u5	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote for the opinion. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We turn to the first item on our agenda today, the debate on the request for authorisation to renew the state of emergency declaration. As you know, yesterday I received the message from H.E. Mr. President of the Republic containing the grounds and contents of the draft decree renewing, for the period of 15 days, the declaration of the state of emergency throughout the national territory, allowing the necessary measures to be taken to contain the spread of the disease COVID-19, on which Mr. President of the Republic also proceeded to the hearing of the Government, which gave its agreement. Since this message has been distributed to all parliamentary groups, we are in a position to start the debate. Thus, for an intervention, Mrs Ana Catarina Mendonça Mendes of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor, first of all.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u6	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister and other members of the Government, Mr and Mr Members: Two weeks after the statement of the state of emergency, all the reasons that led to their declaration and the need for all cautions in their implementation remain. There is two good news about the state of emergency: one is the high civic sense of the Portuguese, another is the parity and sense of the proportionality of the Government in the use given to the extraordinary powers conferred upon it. Unfortunately, nothing happened that made it unnecessary what seemed indispensable two weeks ago and the renewal of the state of emergency is the logical step of the stay of the framework in which its declaration was considered appropriate. these weeks, parliamentary leaders were able to verify the high institutional cooperation between health authorities and political power in the planning and implementation of the response to the challenges that the pandemic poses to public health. We are able to have a political action based on scientific evidence, leaving the health authorities the irreplaceable role of defining the guidelines for combating the scourge and the government the role of leading the political response, either at the level of public health, or in the measures to mitigate the economic and social effects of this pandemic. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Mr Prime Minister said here 15 days ago that democracy was not suspended and is not. It is never more worth stressing the involvement of Parliament, parliamentary leaders and party leaders in monitoring the situation, and it is never more welcome that the meaning and scope of each measure is an enormous scrutiny and that it helps to fine-tune the measures taken. By nature, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the state of emergency poses risks — I know - well - but in Portugal we have reason not to fear their instrumentalization for purposes outside the strictly necessary, which unfortunately cannot be said about what is happening in some Member States of the European Union. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is a Europe that is also proving at this time, and if the leaders of government are not above the petty national short-term visions, they will even be the coves of the European ideal. But on this front too, we are proud of the battle, the position and the border which the Portuguese Government and the Prime Minister have assumed with their partners. We want to go further, take care of the future beyond the pandemic, but to that end we need a joint action in the European framework, appropriate to the size of the disaster. We will therefore continue to work and fight so that this answer can be built, saving the European Union from the collapse of the threat. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: If we live today in a public health emergency, we must do everything we can to ensure that we do not live in a social emergency tomorrow. That is why, in an emergency, we have extended social protection rights to many of those who have been threatened with their jobs and incomes. We protect the economy, but above all we protect people. We have begun to do and we will still do what is within our reach so that this crisis does not extend social inequalities to a level where social cohesion itself will be involved. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is why, in an emergency situation, we guarantee immigrants and refugees the rights granted them the same protection as national citizens. We did not allow ourselves to be infected by the fear that responds to the crisis with xenophobic claims of closure and exclusion. We are, in a collective effort, protecting our lives from the disease and protecting our citizens from the worst effects of the social and economic crisis in this pandemic. We have taken tough but necessary measures. We have taken measures to limit mobility that have allowed us to make time to strengthen, in the means and organization, the National Health Service and to avoid, as far as possible, that the peak of the need for care is greater than our ability to respond. It is within the framework of this limited, weighted, gradual and proportional use of the powers permitted by the state of exception that we today vote in favour of its renewal. We vote with the inconvenience that we will always have when we partially and temporarily suspend freedoms and guarantees, however well-founded and justified that it is the request to proceed to that suspension, but with the assurance that it will end on the same day as it ceases to be indispensable. We vote never to escape our responsibilities to make the decisions necessary to protect the life, health and well-being of the entire community. We do so in the sense of duty, but also to honor all those who have placed the common good above the legitimate differences. We do so to thank, honor and correspond to the dedication and sacrifice of those who, every day, care for the health of the Portuguese, as well as those who, every day, continue to work for the future together. At the most difficult times we are testing the deepest convictions and today, on April 2, 2020, we must celebrate—yes, celebrate—the 44 years of the approval of the 1976 Constitution. [[Congratulations from the PS and Mr José Manuel Pureza.]] It is therefore a day when we are called to recall the joy of the triumph of democratic legitimacy, of the separation of powers, of fundamental rights, of what makes us a consolidated state of democratic law. The Portuguese have trusted the institutions and one of the major challenges of the state of emergency is that the institutions are up to that trust. So far they have been and that gives us the calm and confidence that we will win the next stages of this battle. We therefore strengthen the emergency today to recover tomorrow, without fear and without tibias, the normality of our collective life. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u7	It is the turn of the PSD Parliamentary Group, but first I ask the services, for quorum counting purposes, to make available the electronic records for the Members. Members may be present at the time of the vote on the state of emergency, which will immediately follow the debate. Mr Rui Rio, I apologize for this interruption. Then you have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u8	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Two weeks ago the PSD supported the state of emergency declaration. The first reason we mentioned at the time was a reason for effectiveness in combating the pandemic. The question we have to ask today, for the renewal or not of this state of emergency, is whether this fight has actually resulted. I would say here that without a state of emergency it would have been a disaster, because the disease grew daily at a rate of 35 %, on the day we declared the state of emergency. If that rate were to continue, we would have more than 40 000 infected people today. The average rate, in this period of 15 days, fell to about 21 %, which is a very high rate, but very far from the 35 % we had. We know that we are creating a gigantic economic problem in the country. Every day that passes is obviously a day in things get worse. We live a drama in which what is good for health is bad for the economy and what is good for the economy is bad for health. But the truth is, right now, health has to be first. We have to save lives, but not only save lives, we have to save even quality of life, because many of the infected may have sequelae for the rest of their lives. Another important indicator is that at the beginning of the disease, each infected Portuguese infected about three more Portuguese. Today, this number must be around 1, 2 or 1, 3. This progress we have made is something we must not forget, so it is indisputable that we have to prolong the state of emergency. The PSD will of course vote in favour of the statement that Mr President of the Republic requests it to be voted on in Parliament. On the economic level, it is good to show that we effectively have to support companies and families — that is absolutely indisputable — but we must support very strictly, with the rigour of something that we must all be aware of: all we are now giving will have to be paid in the future. So we need to help with criteria, because without criticism our future will be much worse. I would say, perhaps, that we have to give everything we need, but only what is needed.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u9	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u10	In the economy there is also, beyond the state and all of us, of course, a sector that is and will continue to be absolutely vital, now and then, in economic recovery: the banking sector. The bank has and will have an absolutely decisive role in the course of events in Portugal from an economic point of view. The bank, as we all know, owes a lot, even a lot to all Portuguese. It is therefore necessary that the bank now help both families and businesses. The bank can't want to make money with the crisis. This is absolutely clear to me! [[PSD applause.]] The Bank's objective must be a zero profit in the financial year 2020 and 2021. So that everyone can observe well, for some time now, I will say the following: if the bank presents in 2020 and 2021 high profits, these profits will be a shame and an ingratitude to the Portuguese! [[PSD applause.]] Despite some complaints that have already begun to come to me, I believe in good sense and I believe that the bank knows perfectly well that if companies die, the bank will die with them. We will therefore believe that these complaints do not happen and that we are going to have an active bank, to support businesses, growth, employment and to pay the Portuguese as much as they owe them. Mr President, before I finish, I wanted to make two appeals at this time that we are preparing to renew the state of emergency. The first appeal is addressed to the Portuguese, who have behaved in an absolutely impeccable way but who, as time passes, begin to feel saturated. So I renew here the call to stay at home, to think about yourself and others, to think about the health of all of us and the national economy. The second appeal is, of course, addressed to the European Union. Without solidarity, without a joint response, Euroscepticism will grow, extremism will grow, and we will surely have less in the future, I would say, much less, Europe. If Europe is able to be supportive and if it succeeds in the measures that it is taking, we are relaunching the European project with a brutal force. I have no doubt and I have no doubt that even those who are more reluctant will eventually realize the importance of the moment that Europe is living. Mr President, I conclude with a gratitude that I believe to be more than just. I want to thank all the Portuguese people who are still working and who are guaranteeing us the goods and services we need to live. All of them, with the health professionals in the head, thank you very much. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u11	Mrs Catarina Martins of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u12	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The first challenge in responding to the COVID-19 pandemic is the preservation of health care in the face of a very contagious disease, for which there is no vaccine and which requires intensive treatment for a small but significant part of the infected. If we allow the disease to follow its natural course, not only will the National Health Service be unable to treat all the infections of COVID-19 as it may collapse, affecting the entire population — a disaster scenario that would be human, more than health or economic. It's to prevent that catastrophe we have to act. The measures of limitation of circulation and physical distance seem to be resulting; the growth of the curve of the number of infections with COVID-19 slowed down, which is good news, but it also continues to increase and the danger of rupture in health care is not far away, it is very real. Avoid it, of course, means protecting health professionals and providing the SNS (National Health Service ) with all the means necessary to respond to the pandemic. We know that health professionals have been tireless, all of them. We know the efforts of so many workers who have done everything to save lives. We have to support them too! This is the first reason to need the state of emergency and why we agree with its extension for another two weeks. We know that health professionals have been tireless, all of them. We know the efforts of so many workers who have done everything to save lives and we must also support them. This is the first reason for the emergency state to be required and for which we agree with its extension for another two weeks. The Easter period is approaching, typically marked by religious celebrations, family meetings and tourist trips that, unfortunately, have to be stopped. But the response to the pandemic is not just health care. It is also, and no less important, economic and social. The Government shall use the powers conferred on it by the state of emergency for the requirements of equipment, facilities and professionals necessary to respond to the crisis. Be private hospitals, laboratories and diagnostic tests, production capacity or storage of masks and personal protective equipment, which are so lacking to health professionals, security forces, home workers, waste and cleaning, to all who are on the front line of the health response. The Government must also ensure that all companies comply with health and safety standards. Workers of risk groups should be exempted from work. If telework is compulsory in all compatible functions, there can be no companies that continue to refuse it. This decree explains the Government's ability to intervene in the private economic initiative to prevent redundancies and control prices. It's urgent that this happens. It has been done in other countries and must be done here, to contain the wave of layoffs that are already making thousands of victims, starting with the precarious and precarious conditions of all sectors. Protecting employment and wages, combating price speculation, reducing or suspending the payment of fundamental goods and services: here is the emergency response for the moment we live. Calling the bank and large companies to their responsibilities, of course, also energy, and prohibiting the distribution of dividends. [[Congratulations from BE.]] We understand that the legal deadlines for consultation with trade unions and employers' organisations are incompatible with the speed of measures which this period requires. But the solution does not have to be suspended the constitutional obligation to listen to workers' representatives on labour standards. The Government must find a model to maintain this essential audacity to democracy and the correctness of the measures. The experience of the last 15 days also reinforces our conviction that references to the right to strike and to the right to resistance, adding nothing to the constitutional powers of the Government in the face of a disaster, should not be included in the decree. In order to respond to this pandemic, the Government does not need to protect itself from the rights of workers. It needs to protect those who work, strengthening rights, and needs to protect employment, health, income and safety conditions in the exercise of all the activities that continue. That is why they serve the reinforced responsibilities that are poured out here: to protect health professionals and all caregivers who support those who are most vulnerable, to protect security forces, firemen, workers who ensure the fundamental goods and services that are not missing in the country and to protect those who, while staying at home, are also doing their part and hope that we will do ours. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u13	I now give the floor to Mr João Oliveira of the CFP Parliamentary Group for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u14	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Members: The measures to prevent and contain the virus are not emergency measures and the CFP will not allow one thing to be confused with the other. We maintain our conviction that Portugal needs measures to prevent and contain the virus and we stress the reservations that motivate our distance from the state of emergency. Portugal does not have to live tied to the state of emergency as they enforce the measures of prevention and containment of the epidemic outbreak because it is not the state of emergency that the country needs. Portugal needs indeed measures to prevent and contain the virus. We need those that are being applied today and we can need others that the health authorities identify as necessary. We need more evidence of protection measures for those who have to continue to work every day and for those who are more vulnerable or at risk social groups. We need these measures to be fulfilled, as they have been, in a general way by the population to give the results that experts say they are giving. And we need measures to strengthen the National Health Service to respond. These measures do not require the state of emergency. Portugal also urgently needs major economic and social measures. We need measures to protect employment and support those we see without income but with burdens. We need measures to support national production, starting with agri-food production, so that we do not have to go through even more serious difficulties. And we need to put an end, firmly, to the law of the jungle that begins to strike down on the lives of workers and the people. Every day, situations of abusive dismissal, without any legal basis and in some cases, even with the use of coercion and threat for workers to sign statements accepting their own dismissal. There are multiple wage cuts, changes and discretionary extensions of working hours, attempts to prevent compliance with the law in support measures for workers with children, failure to comply with hygiene, safety and health rules at work, imposing unacceptable risks to workers' health and life. All abuses and arbitrariness are imposed on workers today on the pretext of the state of emergency. Where are the authorities in such situations that impose the enforcement of the law on those who take advantage of the state of emergency to do what he does not allow? Or is it the application of the state of emergency that is intentionally serving as an experimental field for the imposition of all abuses and arbitrariness on workers and the people? The CFP does not accept that the state of emergency is the pretext for imposing the law of the jungle on workers' lives and rights. Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, the epidemic we are facing puts a large set of health, economic and also social problems. For none of this, the state of emergency is mandatory. It is in the political decisions that, with or without a state of emergency, we must be taken that options must be made that solve the problems that we have and we will have in front of us. Let's hope that the holophotos that went on with the state of emergency don't trigger anyone in the solutions that need to be found. The situation in Portugal regarding public health measures, prevention and containment of the virus is different from that in other countries. To date, in Portugal, these measures have been adequately determined by the health authorities and by the government and have been met in a general manner by the Portuguese population, even before the state of emergency has been decreed. That is recognized by specialists and health officials. More than the subject of political discussion, widespread compliance with the measures is a fact found by those who have the responsibility to assess the epidemiological situation and its evolution and recognize the positive consequences in the way the epidemiological situation has evolved in our country. For this to continue, it must be borne in mind that compliance with health measures also depends on the response given to the problems that Portuguese will face if their application is extended over time. The set of difficulties we face is very great: the loss of employment and wages to the difficulties of an elderly person who cannot go to purchase; the protection of health professionals, security forces, support for the elderly, the collection and treatment of waste, the commercial distribution and other essential services to the protection of mental health of those who may have to be confined to their home for months; the expectations of children and young people regarding their school journey until the mobilization of those who are needed to ensure basic services for the functioning of life in society. There are many needs that need to be answered so that the public health problem does not become a social problem of even greater dimensions. This is the responsibility that needs to be taken up in the debates that will continue to follow the discussion of the state of emergency. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u15	Mr Telmo Correia, from the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u16	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: With regard to what we are discussing today — the extension of the state of emergency decreed 15 days ago — it is appropriate, at the beginning, on behalf of the CDS, to make the following very clear: the CDS voted in favour of the previous decree and will, of course, vote in favour of today's decree. The crisis we are experiencing is a health crisis as the present generations have never known and certainly did not expect to know. We had the feeling at first, and unfortunately it remains in some countries of another hemisphere, which, in Portugal and Europe, also started some negationism. I even heard some alarming tugs in the initial phase. Unfortunately, it was not so and we were right when we asked for more drastic measures from the beginning and even for them to be adopted earlier. We were right when we defended the closure of borders, the cancellation of flights and also the closure of schools. Accordingly, and as these measures have been taken, the CDS has not failed either with its vote or with its support, and we know today that these measures and their adoption may be allowing our country not to have to face a more tragic or more catastrophic situation. But we also know that this evaluation is not closed, that it is not definitive and that it depends much, and to a large extent, on the possibility and ability to extend, to generalize and to make more and more tests, because only with more tests will we have a strict perception of the evolution of the pandemic in our country. Today we approve the state of emergency and point out that it is true that the Portuguese generality has corresponded to this situation by giving and leaving a huge lesson in civicism, but it is also no less true, Mr. Prime Minister, that we have witnessed — I have seen - still at the end of last week — some behaviors that are a source of concern. I am thinking, for example, of the images of the rows to Ponte 25 April. We must, of course, ask the Government to clarify these measures, that it is clear what people can do and what they cannot do and we question, until, in the assessment of these measures, the integration of a proportionate and appropriate sanction framework. We have never had any doubt that, between the priority defence of public health and the economic issue, priority is public health and therefore it seems to us that the suspension of the school calendar itself will necessarily have to be extended on 9 April and that we must start thinking about what solutions will be applied. With regard to how we view this situation, I would like to stress that the CDS always said that it would be part of the unit — and we want to be part of that unit. The founder of the CDS had a sentence I kept forever. I remember him saying that "in democracy there are no enemies, in democracy there are only opponents". I would say that, in a pandemic situation, perhaps some of the normal day-to-day adversities can and should also be forgotten. That is how we address this issue. I would also like to remind you here today that the most remarkable speech, the most about what we have heard in this whole crisis, was made not in a room like this, by politicians, but was made by a man alone, in a gigantic square. Francisco's message was clear: no one saves himself, we're all on the same boat. We understand this message and it is with it that we address this situation. We give, as I said, unity, but we are not asked for unanimity. Until, if unity is useful to combat this crisis, unanimity would be a mistake, because we would no longer have differences of opinion. The Prime Minister himself said, and well, that we would stop confronting the measures, we would no longer have possible paths, several or alternative ones. And it's not useful, because if we're all Portuguese and we're all on the same boat, we're not all socialists or we want to be. Above all, we must be truthful and always resist propaganda. We have proposed economic measures, ladies and gentlemen. Members, and we continue to propose, such as the simplification of the layoff, such as the spread of no more than 1 % for the bank, such as the cash shock. Today I draw the attention of the Prime Minister and the Government to the fact that, in our view, there is a sector which is particularly important and which is particularly sensitive, which is the social sector. Mr. Prime Minister and Mr. Members of the government, we need to pay a lot of attention and create a strong social cushion so that this sector, which is, all of it, in the first line and caring for the elderly, is an effective way of responding to this situation. Portugal will have to overcome this situation. And it does well when it demands more of Europe, because this is a fundamental challenge for Europe itself. But we will also have to look, as this situation can be controlled and one can look to the future, to how we will do its lifting. I also leave the Government a call here, the appeal to start looking at what is best being done in some countries. Portugal has in some way the possibility of having been reached by this situation later, to be able to look at those who will be in front of us — for example, for Germany, with immunization studies — and that they will be looking at the next day.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u17	Sir, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u18	I conclude, Mr President, by saying that this is fundamental and repeating here a message of unity and determination that those who are on the front line, such as health professionals, need applause but, more than applause, need equipment, need protection, need help. The applause, by itself, does not arrive and we are next to all who are on the front line, with a sense of state and a sense of national unity. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u19	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr André Silva, of the NAP. I should like to inform you that, in the meantime, it is possible to register for quorum purposes, since we are going to have a vote here about 20 minutes ago. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u20	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: One month after the first person infected in Portugal has been detected, we discussed the renewal of the state of emergency declaration for another 15 days. This is not a discussion that is taking the lead, since, ultimately, we are opening the door to the imposition of restrictions on the fundamental rights of citizens. It is not about institutionalizing or normalizing the state of emergency, it is about looking at the scientific data we have and trying to understand if the exceptional situation that justified the state of emergency is maintained, if this was an instrument capable of achieving the desired objectives and if it is justified, in view of the current situation, its renewal. We have today evidence that we have done well in decreeing the state of emergency to contain the spread of COVID-19 because the evolution of the situation demonstrates a tendency to contain and decrease the rate of growth of infected people, which will have a relationship with the closure of schools and with the containment measures already implemented. These developments indicate that the state of emergency is being effective. With this measure, the country is, for the time being, able to contain tragic scenarios such as those living in countries very close to us. The logical measure, based on scientific evidence, is therefore to renew the declaration of the state of emergency. It should be pointed out, however, that the results we are achieving would never be possible without the responsible behaviour of the citizens. The vast majority of citizens have acted as real public health agents, reducing their exits to the essential, abdicating the affections and fraternity, which characterize us as people, to be at home, losing income, working in telework, being studying at a distance, caring for children, but always with a common goal: to contain the advance of COVID-19. It should be pointed out that this position was only possible because of all those who, often with low wages, with a huge risk of contamination and moving away from their families, do not stop the rest of the community from stopping, whether truck drivers, who travel an emergency Europe so that essential goods are not lacking in shelves, farmers, supermarket workers, workers of communications operators or CTTs, who continue to work so that reforms, pensions and other social support can be paid in time, workers who continue to ensure the cleaning of facilities and the collection of waste, social media professionals, security forces professionals, or those who continue to ensure the circulation of public transport. We must also not forget the gestures of social responsibility and solidarity of universities, politicians and some companies and industries that reoriented their production to ensure the provision of personal protective material, biocidal products and ventilators. All this effort is crucial to ensure that doctors, nurses, auxiliaries and other health professionals, our heroes without cover, can continue to care and treat successfully for infected patients, doing real miracles and avoiding the rupture of our National Health System, at a time when more than ever before we need it. In the coming weeks we have to keep all the cautions we've had so far and even go further in some aspects. It is not a question of tightening measures, of protecting and saving more lives, of maintaining the utmost intensity in the self-discipline of containment measures in order to be successful in monitoring, by implementing greater restrictions on movement, particularly during the Easter season, or of imposing tele-synthesis if necessary. In the coming weeks it is necessary for the Government, together with all the political forces, to go further and use the strengthened legitimacy it has in order, among other things, to further restrict the movements admitted to the strictly essential, strengthen tests and screenings, set prices of essential goods to combat the pandemic, ensure the availability of facilities to accommodate in a dignified manner people in a situation of economic difficulty, increase the social protection of whom it needs, such as micro, small and medium-sized business partners, independent workers or workers placed in a situation of forced unemployment, without forgetting that we should especially monitor and strengthen the protection of the most vulnerable, such as the elderly, the homeless, or women, young people and children who, living with aggressors, are more exposed to situations of violence. For these, the State has a special duty to protect and to increase surveillance, insofar as situations at risk are more difficult to signal and, it is known, increases in this context cases of negligence, abuse or violence. I end with a word of regret for the families of the victims of the epidemic, of gratitude to all those who are in the front line to keep the country in operation, of hope in the response of solidarity of the European project, which is, today more than ever, proof, and of commitment that, on the side of the NAP, we will continue to work so that we can return to our normal daily life, with the affections that characterize us, with the streets again full of people, with the economy to function and with the certainty that we are stronger, united and solid as a community and as a country. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u21	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Greens.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u22	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The first words are to address, on behalf of the Greens, the deepest condolences to the families and friends of the fatal victims, who have not resisted the threat that is established between us in these long and painful weeks. Then I would like to point out some data which, under this circumstance, is never more relevant. The first is due recognition for the commitment of all those people who, unexpectedly, and even so many times unprotected, have taken to the front line of this fight, where they remain with all determination and doing everything to prevent the advance of this serious problem. Then it is fair to stress the contribution of all those who, in these days, continue to work to ensure that, despite everything, the essential is not lacking and that the country does not stop at all. But it is also fair to note the way Portuguese in general have been dealing with the problem. Indeed, the responsible attitude of the Portuguese, who voluntarily accepted the guidelines of the health authorities, has been a key pillar in building the response that must also be collective. And so we hope that it will continue, because if it is true that these measures take a high level of demand for Portuguese, it is also true that they will continue to be absolutely decisive in order to contain the new coronavirus. Finally, but no less important, it is important to highlight the importance that the National Health Service has been assuming to the level of containment of a problem of this nature and dimension. But this crisis has not only confirmed the importance of the SNS. He came to show a lot more. It also showed the solidarity of the European Union, where, in the neoliberal wave that is going on in Europe, « save whoever can » reigns. Austria criticizes Germany and France for not allowing the purchase of medical equipment and equipment—yes, because the free movement of goods and goods is only for when it comes to some—the Netherlands says what it says about Italy and Spain when these countries claim additional resources.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u23	It's a fact!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u24	Yes, because European solidarity is only reliable conversation, it is an advertising slogan which does not, in fact, exempt the consultation of the prospectus. And yes, Mr. Prime Minister, the Dutch Minister's statements are repugnant, but the facilities with which the largest Portuguese companies move their tax offices to Holland to avoid paying taxes in our country are also repugnant. It seems to us, Mr Prime Minister, that it would be nothing repugnant to compel these companies to pay taxes where they fatten their profits, i.e. in Portugal. Let's think about it. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In view of the seriousness of the problem, the Greens consider it imperative to continue the containment measures, but it should be clarified that the containment measures are not confused, nor can they be confused, with the state of emergency. In fact, the most important measures in this fight were taken outside the state of emergency, even before this was declared. I am referring to the closure of schools and the voluntary confinement of Portuguese. Moreover, as is being verified, the state of emergency did not prevent abuses by many employers, who are taking advantage of the situation to fire workers, conclude contracts before time, proceed to summary dismissals, denounce contracts during the experimental period or even impose or force vacation enjoyment. It's all worth it. But, as far as the state of emergency is concerned, I would like to recall an element which, for the Greens, is very important in this discussion. As the Greens have been saying since the beginning of this process, all measures to be taken in this fight should be technically supported by those who know, especially by the Directorate-General for Health. It happens that we have heard health authorities, technicians, specialists and the scientific community defending the imperative need to continue the containment measures, but we have never heard them defend or recommend the state of emergency or its extension.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u25	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u26	In fact, if we heed Mr Prime Minister's words when, last Monday, he said that "we will have to prolong the measures that have been taken, with an emergency state or without an emergency state", we realize that it is not the state of emergency that allows the government to give the necessary answers. In order to ensure that there is no lack of protection material for health professionals, so that there is no lack of ventilators for patients or to strengthen the response capacity of the National Health Service, at least as long as the Portuguese continue to look at the full sense of responsibility for the recommendations of the public authorities, the Government continues to have within the normal legal framework all the conditions for nothing lacking in this fight. That was when, 15 days ago, we discussed the statement of the state of emergency and so it remains today. Therefore, if the reasons for our abstention in the state of emergency are still present today, we see no reason to change the sense of vote. The Greens will therefore abstain from the request for authorization to renew the state of emergency. [[PEV and PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u27	You have the floor, Mr Ventura, for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u28	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members: Today is the time to strengthen the unity of Portugal, to remember those thousands, those millions of Portuguese who continue to work so that other millions may be at home, those who have often been forgotten by the state, regardless of governments, and who today are the first to give their efforts and their sacrifice to fight this pandemic. Yes, Prime Minister, the statements of the Dutch Minister of Finance, as a Prime Minister would, in an emergency, say that China has to be held responsible for what is happening around the world. An emergency Prime Minister must also have the ability to say it. Yes, Prime Minister, the powers you need at this time have and must be strengthened. We were the first to ask for the state of emergency and the closure of borders, when others still said it was an extreme-right and populist measure.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u29	And it is!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u30	what we do not need, Mr Prime Minister, is that we do not have a clear understanding of what restrictions we have or what powers the authorities have in order to effectively control these abuses. what we do not need, Prime Minister, is Portuguese confined at home, without circulation, and open airports without any health control to those coming from countries where the pandemic is very strong. Finally, Mr Prime Minister, of what we do not need — he will never accept — he cannot accept — is the release of prisoners from our prisons. That, we can't accept! As much as they tell us that they are actions requested by the United Nations ( United Nations ), measures of humanity, we have a duty not to allow a health crisis to become a crisis of impunity and crime in Portugal. Therefore, from the beginning, we asked that the state of emergency be decreed, but not this state of emergency, not the state of emergency which will put more bandits on the streets, which will allow them to leave the street criminals convicted of crimes that we do not know what they are, and with the Portuguese confined and closed in their homes. At a time when Portugal needs more and more security to ensure that the health crisis we have will not eventually become a crime crisis and a social crisis! This is the truth that has to be said and that cannot be ignored, from this rostrum. Mr. Prime Minister, the arrival will not vote in favour of this state of emergency, because the state of emergency is to control the chaos and not to increase it in our streets. He's here to understand that an emergency state...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u31	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u32	I will finish, Mr. President. As I was saying, the arrival understands that an emergency state is to control a pandemic and not to generate pandemics in our cities and our lands. This is the appeal we make to him: think! Think and don't wash your hands to make Portugal one of the biggest impunity havens of the European Union. Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u33	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u34	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This debate on the renewal of the state of emergency is, in essence, a debate on confidence, from the outset, the government's confidence in the management of this crisis. The Portuguese who have mobilized themselves to protect themselves and theirs, before the government acts, need to believe that whoever governs them knows what he is doing without hesitation without political-partisan or presidential calculations. But this debate is also about confidence in how the government will not abuse the vast powers that this decree further reinforces, stepping up several red lines: price control and the rationalization of products and materials, without ever knowing what; more limits to business freedom; more limitations to the movement of people; arbitrary changes to contracts; additional suspensions of trade union rights; derogation from the Criminal Code. Too many lines. Democracy is not suspended and the fight against this epidemic cannot be a pretext for violating individual rights and freedoms, without scrutiny and without criticism. So ultimately, what is going to be voted on today is trust in the government and, firstly, confidence in how the Prime Minister will not abuse these powers. But does a Prime Minister deserve confidence who, 15 days ago, made it clear that he did not want the state of emergency and now asks to tighten up the measures? Is a prime minister worthy of trust who assured that there would be nothing missing from the SNS, to soon be denied by three orders from the sector? Does a Prime Minister who promised to open epidemiological data to the scientific community a week later deserve confidence? Do you deserve confidence from a Prime Minister who proclaims the need for union when he gives it a way and then enters ideological chicana when it suits him? [[Protests from BE MP Jorge Costa.]] 15 days ago, we gave the benefit of doubt. We don't give anymore. We will vote against renewing the state of emergency declaration.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u35	It's the government's turn. I have the floor for one speech, Mr Prime Minister, to whom I would like to congratulate, since we have started this session without the government being present, with the reading of the dossier. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u36	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Just 44 years ago, this Assembly of the Republic met to approve, by a very large majority, the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic of 1976. over these 44 years, our Constitution has guaranteed us freedoms, but, when it was now necessary, it has also guaranteed the necessary authority so that we could limit them to the extent strictly necessary, to face a pandemic as we had never lived. Certainly, 44 years ago, no one dreamed that today we would celebrate the approval of the Constitution, but I think we can only celebrate a constitution that has given us freedom and at the same time has not withdrawn the authority necessary to preserve it, when necessary. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Today, too, precisely one month ago, the first case of COVID-19 was diagnosed in Portugal. throughout this month, we all know what the disease has been and we know that it will continue to evolve still safely in the coming weeks, extending the number of infected people, the number of people who will spend more time sick and, unfortunately, also the number of people who will die. Therefore, if 15 days ago it was necessary to declare the state of emergency, today it is absolutely essential to renew it, not because it was because of the state of emergency that the Portuguese began, with remarkable discipline, consciousness, civic sense and responsibility, to self-limit itself in its ability to travel, not because, during these 15 days, they did not understand the limitations imposed by the state of emergency — these 15 days, there were 22 violations of confinement and 11 violations of the order of closure of establishments and indeed the behaviour of the Portuguese has been absolutely extraordinary, but because it would give the wrong message, when, 15 days ago, it was considered essential that the state of emergency should be decided. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It would be to give the wrong message, because it would be to say, or to understand, that what was needed 15 days ago is now no longer being. Now, it is not true, it is still necessary. I would say, even more necessary, not because the rate of growth in the number of new cases is not slowing down, but because, firstly, as time goes on, the risk is rising, from the outset, the risk of the fatigue itself of self-contentation; secondly, because time is increasing the pain of sacrifices imposed on families, businesses and Portuguese in general; thirdly, because in the next fortnight, we will live periods of much increased risk, as is the Easter period. We all know that, after the tunnel, there will be light, but it is still early for any of us to be able to see the light at the bottom of the tunnel. It is therefore time to continue with determination and discipline what the Portuguese began, what we strengthened, having been decreed the state of emergency, and to which the Portuguese have given continuity. It would therefore be wrong to give a message if we did not renew the state of emergency today. We must all be aware of what the Portuguese understood very well from the beginning: this virus does not work for you, we are the ones who carry it, so if we do not move, we do not transport the virus and, if we do not get close to others, we do not transmit the virus. So the real way we have to stop this pandemic is to move as little as possible and get closer to others as strictly necessary. This is the rule. It is the rule of restraint and social distance that we must maintain. Therefore, the Easter period will have to be, this year, a very different period from what Easter is traditionally. We cannot, in fact, go to the ground. We cannot, those who have it, enjoy Easter in a second home. We really have to tell our compatriots who live in Switzerland, Germany, France, anywhere else, that this is not a good time to visit us. It is not that we do not miss them because we have — not that we are not always with open arms — because we are — but, unfortunately, this is not the time for them or their families to visit. This is also the appeal we have to make to families, in particular to the most numerous families, to pass this Passover further away from each other. That is absolutely essential. All the effort that has been made so far will be compromised if it is not continued. Therefore, the civic sense of responsibility that has marked this month is what must continue to mark in the coming weeks. [[P.S.'s applause.]] On the other hand, as we announced next week, we have to decide how the school year will continue. On the next day 7, in the morning format we used with Mr. President of the Republic, Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, the party leaders, their delegations, the social partners, we will again hear the epidemiologists who have worked with the Directorate-General for Health to define the evolution of the epidemiological study. We have asked them this time that, on the next day 7, if they can focus specifically on the evaluation that make the risk of opening schools, either on the normal date of resumption of the third period, either in other phases or for each year, be phased. On the 7th day, in the afternoon, the Ministry of Education shall hold the hearing of the Council of Schools and shall also meet the National Council of Education. On 8th, I myself will proceed to the hearing of the different political parties represented in the Assembly of the Republic, so that on 9th, as we promise the Portuguese families, our students and all the educational communities, we can give a reply on how this school year will continue. What we have to have as guidance is the principle that has marked us since the beginning of this crisis: the maximum containment, the minimum disturbance. That must be the line that should guide us, in order to continue to be able to define with criteria how this school year should continue. I wanted to say that it is true that in these decisive moments it is usually the best in each one, but unfortunately it is also when it reveals the worst in each one. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is not the time to point out what has been the worst, but it is time not to be able to ignore it. In fact, we cannot ignore those who use this circumstance to abuse the exercise of labour relations, to abuse the attempt to exploit the economic lack of essential goods. We cannot ignore those who behave wrongly in the market, those who do not know how to resist responsibly, how to resist, and if they allow themselves to be contaminated by panic and abuse their authority to impose restrictions on the rights, freedoms and guarantees that are not justified. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Worse than the virus, it's even the virus of fear. I would like to end with a word, firstly, of deep feeling towards those who have lost their lives, towards their relatives and friends, towards those who are sick, towards the more than 20,000 Portuguese and Portuguese who are currently under active surveillance and confined to their homes, for all health professionals, the security forces, our Armed Forces, for the civil protection agents, for all those who, in the social sector, have played a fundamental role in supporting the most vulnerable, for our citizens and those who work in our local autracies, for all Portuguese and all Portuguese who, in their freedoms, already suffer the economic costs of this crisis, for all those who daily overcome the fear of going to work and ensure that the country does not stop to continue to have the goods essential to the life of all Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]] A word to the scientific community, which has been mobilized in the investigation of the cure, in the investigation of the vaccine, in the investigation of tests, in the ability to give technical support so that companies can redirect their production and so that many of them can have their production now concentrated on essential goods in the fight against this pandemic. Not everything that is good for the economy is bad for health. We need to find and increasingly value, nurture and support those companies that are doing well for the economy, also doing well for health, because there is no good health without a good economy, because this means employment, income, living conditions, and this is fundamental to the good health of all of us. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Finally, I would like to thank the enormous logistical effort of an immense chain of supply of goods that have become essential and that, over these weeks, we have been able to organize and establish a true air bridge between Portugal and that country which, as we all realize today, has an excess of predominance in the production of essential goods of which Portugal, Europe cannot fail and which also has to regain the capacity to produce. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It's in this understanding that we have to start thinking. If we still don't see the light at the bottom of the tunnel, we need to know that this is the time to start thinking about how we're going to live when we get out of this emergency tunnel, this pandemic tunnel, because then there's more life to live and we have to get there alive to live that life. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u37	I ask the ladies and gentlemen. Members who have not yet electronically registered the favour of doing so. In any case, we have the quorum that is widely needed to proceed with the vote. at present, there are 149 Members. As you are aware, there will be only this electronic register for quorum purposes, which is the register which will also serve for the votes that will be held at the end of the debate. Therefore, for now, it is essential that the honourable Members. Members are present, but after the vote on the authorization to renew the statement of emergency state may and must leave, leaving only the quorum of operation of the plenary and responsibility to the management of the seats. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall therefore proceed to the vote on the renewal of the authorisation, requested by the President of the Republic, for the declaration of the state of emergency. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, CDS-PP and PAN, votes against IL and abstentions from the PCP, PEV, CH and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the state of emergency has been renewed and the request for authorisation by Mr President of the Republic has been welcomed.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u38	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u39	Mrs Joacine Katar Moreira asks for the word for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u40	To announce that I will make a statement of vote and also to express my concern...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u41	The honourable Member will deliver the statement of vote in writing and will include the content of the statement.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u42	...by the poor democratic quality emanating from the Conference of Leaders when they choose to silence me in a state of emergency.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u43	Madam Member, we are following the Rules of Procedure which have been revised a short time ago on this issue and therefore we are all, of course, — the Bureau of the House and all parliamentary groups — of quiet conscience. Before taking into account the second item on the agenda, I should like to inform you that Vice-President José Manuel Pureza will be replacing me for a while, which I thank him for. We shall then proceed with the second item on the agenda, which consists in the general joint assessment of Lein's proposals 18 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — establishes an exceptional and temporary regime of expiry and the opposition to the renewal of housing and non-residential leases, taking into account the pandemic of the disease COVID-19 and 21 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Establishs an exceptional regime for situations of late payment of due income under housing and non-residential urban lease contracts under the COVID-19 pandemic and Law Projects Nos 272 / XIV / 1. a ( CH) — By awarding a period of three months of moratorium on housing and non-residential leases and 285 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Suspends the legal deadlines and the practice of procedural and procedural acts until the exceptional situation of prevention, containment, mitigation and treatment of the epidemiological infection by SARS-CoV-2 and the disease COVID-19. [[Meanwhile, Vice President José Manuel Pureza took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u44	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, very good day and good health vows. To begin the second item on our agenda today, you have the floor, on behalf of the Government, Mr. Minister for Infrastructure and Housing, Pedro Nuno Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u45	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We live a time of exceptionality, for which we are, as men and women, citizens, politicians, challengers. The Portuguese people live with anguish and anxiety, and frightened not only from the health point of view but also from the economic and social point of view, the moment in which we live. This crisis has shown, if still necessary, the great interdependence between each of us, not only with our friends and family, but also with those we do not know, with those with whom we cross the street, with those we will never meet in life or ever cross in life. But it has also shown, if still necessary, the importance of having a strong State, with the resources necessary to meet the individual and collective needs of our community, our people. In housing, one of the areas in which we feel more instability, more insecurity, anxiety and distress on the part of our families, we have sought to find a balance that would defend and protect tenants and families, defend the legitimate rights of lords and preserve the budgetary capacity of the State to continue with the other housing programmes that are fundamental to continue and do not stop, because obviously housing problems, such as the honourable Members. You know, even before the crisis they were already serious and deep. It was within this balance that we decided to propose that, until 30 June, lease contracts should not expire. This is not the time for families to be anxious for a new home, so they need to be assured of stability during this period. We also propose that, during this period, any delay in the payment of income cannot be invoked as a justification for the denunciation or termination of the lease contract. We will also propose that families who find it difficult to pay income within the expected deadlines may use the support of the IRHU (Instituto da Habitação y da Rehabilitation Urbana). It is also envisaged that landlords who have proven loss of income due to these late income payments may also use the support of the IRHU to deal with the loss of income that they had with the delay in payment of income by tenants. We also propose that, in order to give them proper legal coverage, that the public authorities, the central administration, but also those of the local administration, because many have already begun to take measures, they can suspend, reduce or even exempt income in buildings for housing or non-residential use, which are their property. This is the balance we have reached in order to give stability to families, preserve the rights of gentlemen — many of them in difficulty — but also preserve the budgetary capacity of the State to continue with the other housing programmes, in particular those that plan to end all situations of angry housing and respond to the needs of middle income populations. We and the various parliamentary groups have similar solutions and different solutions, of course with the certainty that we are all, without exception, concerned to defend our families, to defend our people, to defend our community. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u46	To present its legislative initiative, Mr André Ventura has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u47	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, agreeing that housing is probably one of the elements whose instability can most harm the social fabric, this balance must be found. And that it is found in a just formula that protects, in fact, those who cannot at this time go home looking for obvious public health issues, but also that it protects those who, at a time like this, have seen their income decline very much and cannot afford their respective benefits. We're in full agreement. Mr Minister, in our opinion, the government fails when, at the same time, it protects the lodgers—and well! — leaves the landlords and those who do the business of houses and leases in Portugal extremely unprotected. The fact is that, in short, the Government's proposal consists of this: those who do not receive benefits from tenants must pay even more. This is unprecedented throughout Europe. I do not know a single country with a proposal similar to the proposals currently under discussion. What happens is that the government proposes that those who are unable to receive income, because their tenants have stopped paying, have to pay even more. That is, the creditor, who has a benefit to receive, will be in debt and will have to pay even more because another, another part of the contract, failed to pay. Mr Minister, what we propose is a balance between these two benefits and, in this, the project of the Arrival seems to me to be much more balanced than that of the Socialist Party and the Government.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u48	You now have the floor for an intervention on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr Bruno Dias.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u49	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs: The position of the CFP in this debate is very clear, i.e. the constitutional right to housing is to comply and defend. Particularly at this time, when the country faces the COVID-19 pandemic and the seriousness of its implications in the lives of Portuguese people, it is even more important that the measures necessary to defend the populations are taken. It is certainly simple to understand, for all, that the possibility of the termination or non-renewal of lease contracts is removed at this time. As for income and payment, we would like to stress that situations of loss of income by the tenant should be answered, not with the accumulation of debts for the tenant to pay later, but with the proportional reduction of the income value. If the renter is to pay less income and the landlord is to be compensated by the State at the corresponding value. This is the proposal of the PCP. By establishing the limit of the amounts of income according to the value of the property, we prevent the State from subsidizing speculative income. When it comes to IHRU housing, we propose that, in the event of loss of income or unemployment, residents may trigger the revaluation of the value of income. In addition to this way of reducing charges, we also propose the extension of the salary payment deadline in general and the possibility of suspension of payments in the case of IHRU, which would, in such situations, develop a payment plan within 36 months. As a proposal for an amendment to the legal deadlines has been submitted, then draft Law No 285 / XIV / 1 is also to be assessed by the House. a, the CFP, which clearly proposes the suspension of judicial deadlines, instead of a more misleading system of equalization to judicial holidays as pointed out by the Government. These are concrete and constructive proposals of the CFP, which aim to contribute to the defence of populations, especially the most vulnerable, in view of the social impact of this pandemic, particularly in this central issue for the lives of people, which is the right to housing. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u50	We now turn to the intervention by the Parliamentary Group of the PAN by Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u51	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : At a time when the values of a democratic rule of law are tested, in which the Assembly of the Republic also has a fundamental role as guarantor of democracy, it is essential not only for governmental stability but also, above all, for all of us, as elected, not to give up our role, a role that is not merely supervisory but also participatory. Although this is not the path that some have chosen to follow, it will surely be our way, which is why we have adopted a participatory and cooperative register that we intend to maintain, so there is openness to it, because the opposite would be to postpone answers to the legitimate concerns that today afflict people, businesses or non-governmental organisations. It is expected that the effects that containment measures will have on the economy, the relationship with work and the financial capacity of families will have an impact beyond the end of the state of emergency declaration, whose date we still do not know, it is therefore important to ensure that people do not see themselves in the near future of homelessness or having to close the doors of their businesses. We therefore propose that the housing and non-residential leases, and their renewals, should not cease by expiry or opposition, at least three months after the end of the state of emergency, at which time we will certainly still be re-emerging ourselves with this crisis, but thereby ensuring greater stability for families and businesses than for the Government's proposal. The solution we propose still seeks to respect and take into account the concerns of both tenants and owners, in particular those for whom income is also the possibility of dealing with their expenses. This effort must be shared among all in a fair manner, not being able to bear all charges in the state, owners or tenants, but ensuring that the State protects those who are in a more fragile situation. We therefore believe that the IHRU should have a loan line to owners who justify the need, not disresponsibility of tenants or encourage non-compliance, but, above all, not penalising landlords. Another proposal we bring is the protection measures of vulnerable people and families. Housing, we know, plays a central role in the realization of human beings and more at a time when there is a danger between us that threatens all. Today this right cannot be merely evocative or written on paper. For those on the streets, especially at this stage, there is no way to wash their hands, there is no way to take a bath or access directly to food or other essential goods, such as food or medicines. It is also in these risk groups that the scourge can achieve proportions which, from a humanitarian point of view, are manifestly catastrophic. If the lack of a ceiling is already a devastating element from the point of view of the capacity of the structuring of the human person, in a context such as that of the COVID-19, the impossibility of social isolation is too worrying. We therefore consider it urgent that municipalities should be able to request from the Government the request of public buildings, campsites, hotel facilities and similar property to respond to the urgent accommodation of such persons, which must be a priority for the State, together with, of course, the implementation of a contingency plan that ensures the maintenance of existing support, such as in food and medicines, among other aspects. As far as the moratorium on bank loans is concerned, let us be serious.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u52	Mrs. Deputy, you want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u53	I conclude now, Mr President. Let's be serious. It makes no sense that, for reasons other than the will of all the people who will be affected by this crisis, the bank can benefit from the opportunity to threaten more interest at the cost of the sacrifice that everyone is asked for. We therefore propose the suspension of interest due during the extension period, which will not be capitalised at the value of the loan and will not be able to represent an increase in costs.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u54	For the next intervention by the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Maria Manuel Rola has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u55	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister: The housing crisis was already deep before this pandemic, with tens of thousands of people living without decent housing conditions. It is now clear that having a decent home is, in addition to this condition of dignity, a fundamental guarantee of health and a public health instrument. Being in confinement is, in this sense, a duty and a right that many people do not access in our country. It is therefore extremely important to take all the measures necessary to protect the housing of people at this time of greater vulnerability. What is asked and what we propose is this Community protection, to all and to all, and I propose it to the public and to the private. on the part of the public, it is essential to ensure that persons benefiting from housing are protected in the breakdown of income, because they are the most precarious. For this purpose, any supported lease scheme should see its outstanding payment and the IHRU should set the example. We also propose that the scope and time limits of the moratorium, in the case of private income, be extended, among other measures. In addition, it seems important to us to mobilize the capacity of private response in a country with so many housing needs and with the urgent need to stop this pandemic. This implies ensuring the necessary response, within the housing and public health law, to the various vulnerable groups. In addition, some of these responses have already emerged from the market to support health workers, but this support needs to be extended to all sectors of the front line, i.e. health workers, but also, for example, cleaning, safety, urban waste collection, food and agriculture, as well as transport. They all need a response to limit the exposure of family members and ensure conditions of isolation for themselves and others, so the answer has to be extended. But not only. It is also at this time that we see our ability to organize and solidarity with people in situations of homelessness, older people, and even people in situations of overcrowding or waiting for public housing to be allocated, among others. This answer has to be extended and we know that empty spaces are not missing, it is necessary to require them. Hotel units, local housing establishments and other unoccupied private buildings, held by the bank and real estate funds, must respond to these deficiencies identified by society as a whole. It is a joint and common combat that we do here and the answers cannot be held hostage. With this determined prevention, we will gain the assurance that we can all be public health agents and that everyone has the same conditions for isolation. It is not enough to thank this House with words, we must also thank what we have decided this afternoon on the right to housing. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u56	I now give the floor to Mr José Luís Ferreira for his speech by the Parliamentary Group of the Green Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u57	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr Secretary of State, Mr and Mr. Members: The right to housing always deserves special attention, but in exceptional times such as the one in which we live more responsibilities must fall on the State to ensure that the effects of this crisis are not even more negative. in this discussion, we do not even talk about the situations of confinement of families who live in conditions of overcrowding or extreme housing precariousness—sometimes, even without water, electricity and basic sanitation—not the homeless or the victims of domestic violence. We are talking about the difficulties many families will have to pay the income due to their income reduction and, in this sense, the Greens value some of the measures that have already been taken, namely the suspension of the waste, although in our view they are still insufficient. We therefore propose that the support measures contained in the Bills Nos 18 and 21 / XIV / 1. it extends up to three months after the cessation of the measures adopted following the COVID-19, because people will need time to rebuild their situation and seek a new housing. We also propose that, during this period, the period of payment of income should be extended until the 15th day of each month and that this is not the time for penalties for non-compliance or updates of income. It seems to us still of the greatest importance that municipalities can request the Government to request public buildings and hotel facilities and similar facilities to protect people in situations of housing or homeless vulnerability. On the other hand, we believe that the government cannot treat what is different equally and therefore we make the distinction between a particular landlord, a small owner whose incomes are part of its subsistence, and entities with economic and financial capacity, such as investment funds, banks, insurers, and out there. In other words, different situations also require different solutions and measures. Therefore, we also propose that the support be only for private owners whose incomes are not speculative, i.e. that they are not greater than 1 / 20 of the current annual tax value of the lease. Law No 21 / XIV / 1. a, the government proposes a loan without interest—it is true! — but, in our view, the path cannot be to the indebtedness of tenants, because this option would overburden the future effort rate of families when they do not have the guarantee that their income will be fully restored or that their jobs will survive. We agree with the support, but through participation, as is also stated in our proposal. In conclusion, I would like to say that we are not proposing other measures which are also absolutely fair and necessary, such as the repeal of the income law, because there will be an opportunity for this. Today, we discuss exceptional measures adapted to the challenge we face, also exceptional, which will help to protect the lease and families that need no more instability, fears or uncertainties. The time is of collective effort and solidarity, especially when we speak of a right which the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic elects as fundamental right.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u58	The next intervention lies with Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo of the Liberal Initiative. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u59	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr State Secretary for Parliamentary Affairs, Mr. Members: The situation we are experiencing today is very difficult for many Portuguese people, because confinement at home and social isolation are indeed difficult. But for many Portuguese, the difficulty is another: to imagine being homeless, to not even have a house where they can isolate themselves, and to join this distress and uncertainty to all others who assault them. The Liberal Initiative has already had the opportunity to enable and propose, in due course, measures to support tenants and landlords, such as the reduction in the collection of possible renegotiations of debts between landlords and tenants or the suspension of IMI (municipal property tax) in the case of landlords with outstanding incomes, for example. We will continue to defend measures and put forward proposals in the same direction, but the effects of this crisis have already affected many families, who are afraid to lose their homes and feel the ground running under their feet. So we will do everything so that not only the ground does not run under their feet, nor does it lack a roof over their heads. We shall therefore vote in favour of the proposed law of the Government.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u60	The next intervention lies with Mrs Marina Gonçalves of the Socialist Party. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u61	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr State Secretary for Parliamentary Affairs, Mrs and Mrs. Members: We live different times. The reality with which we are all faced and which Portugal is not indifferent makes it necessary to adapt the social response, particularly the housing response. The consequences of the pandemic that is present in the lives of all have, in recent weeks, determined a set of measures aimed at continuing to promote the social state, without neglecting the exceptionality of the situation. That is why today we are discussing one of the fundamental pillars of the social state, with the last commitment to protect decent housing, to protect stable and lasting housing. That is the priority of the diplomas we have discussed here. Today, the Government is presenting to us a proposal to safeguard the balance between the landlord and the landlord. The purpose of the Government, with which we fully agree, is to guarantee the right to housing, a constitutionally safeguarded right and which today is particularly challenged in the face of the vulnerability of the situation we live in and the reduction in the incomes that many Portuguese face. In parallel with what has already been approved in this House, it is today promoted the protection of tenants in case of expiry or non-renewal of the lease contract, but also, above all, safeguarding the maintenance of the tenant's position in case of difficulty in paying the rent. We ask the gentlemen, depending on the reduction in the income of family aggregates, in the forms provided for herein, to participate in the collective effort, ensuring, during this period, the maintenance of lease contracts in case of non-payment of income. We also ask the gentlemen to participate in the effort of economic stability and safeguarding our companies, which, affected by legal or administrative decisions, had to close doors, paralyzing their production and activity and being prevented from fulfilling, in the short term, their responsibilities in the payment of income. And because we are all called upon to this collective effort, today we also approve the possibility of public entities in the position of landlords to reduce or even exempt the income charged to all those who have seen their income reduced, contributing to safeguarding the right to housing. The housing response we discussed here is not an immutable response, but rather the necessary response to the real needs that the Portuguese face in the present. Like all the steps that have been taken, the response in housing is also evaluated according to the evolution of the pandemic and the consequences of it in the Portuguese people. It is precisely this opportunity judgment that we make here today. It is important to stress that public action in the various aspects of society ultimately aims to safeguard the Portuguese people. Today we are living in an unprecedented situation that deserves, of all, the possible contribution. We, the body representing the will of the Portuguese, must fight for the common good, and that is what we are doing today. Protecting housing and continuing to work for the real guarantee of conditions for a decent short and medium-term housing is to protect our citizens. To ensure that the answers adapt to the actual reality is to ensure the necessary dynamic judgment that accompanies the deficiencies that are being evidenced at every moment. Protecting the social state is the principle that should guide us in this and other initiatives, always in order to safeguard the best response for all Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u62	You have the floor for one speech, Mr Cristovão Norte, of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u63	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr State Secretary for Parliamentary Affairs, Mrs and Mrs. Members : Portugal faces a public health crisis that causes severe problems in all areas of social life. It is a time of impasse and, for many, of distress. People question how they will fulfill their obligations: clear the bill of water, light or pay the rent of the house. People ask themselves about how they guarantee that their business — small, medium or large — remains at the close that was decreed or resists abrupt search breaks, which place it on the edge of the cliff. At this extraordinary time, we should take extraordinary measures, measures that we would not consider otherwise and that we should only take account of this state of need. We need time. Time to return to normality; time for the lease market to function in an open and free manner; time for the most vulnerable tenants, those who register marked income breaks, to be able to meet their obligations on time; time, finally, for the commercial establishments and others to be able to reopen the doors and generate the revenues necessary to ensure their survival. During this time, we must watch for the stability of people's lives: to prevent the effects of the expiry of housing and non-residential leases, their non-renewal or denunciation, as well as the protection of those whose economic paralysis puts in extreme situation, who in the name of the health of all are forced to abdicate from day to day for the benefit of the community. These are the most desperate. We have an obligation to contribute so as not to exacerbate this despair, to open up and strengthen a horizon of hope. We must therefore ensure the stability of contracts, control uncertainty and guarantee the right to housing. But, look, this is a time to relieve those who need, who can't, it's not a time for those who have a duty,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u64	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u65	...respects others and exempts himself from his duties. That is why this is not and cannot be a safe conduct so that everyone does not honor their commitments. In relation to some things that are planned, the PSD would not propose them. There are failures and there are distinct visions. There are some imbalances and injustices in the distribution of costs. The formula created, in our view, weakens the landlords, some of whom, surely, with their difficulties and also depending on the incomes to live. However, the government must govern, this is its choice. the PSD can collaborate in this fight and draw attention to errors and imperfections, as we have done and we will continue to do. Let us hope that this regime will last very little time. It would be good for everyone. That's what we're committed to. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u66	For an intervention, Mr João Gonçalves Pereira, from the CDS-PP, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u67	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr State Secretary for Parliamentary Affairs, Mr. Members: The Government brings to plenary a bill which, in the current context, has a good concern — a concern with tenants and landlords — but in times of emergency, which are also times of urgency for families and businesses, therefore, it is important to protect them. But, Minister, this bill should have deserved another weight, since it opens the door to non-compliance and leaves the landlords with their legs and hands tied. The State, with this bill, once again wants to decide on a heritage that is not its own. It is important to bear in mind that many of the owners have as their only income the real estate they have on the lease market. I give you an example of the problem of this bill: the tenant no longer pays rent, the landlord no longer has his income. The government says to that gentleman that he will be indebted. This gentleman's going to borrow. After the emergency period, the tenant ceases to settle the rents. The landlord is having a problem with the loan he has contracted and, to the limit, he can come to see his real estate, his estate executed. But also the solution that the Government is presenting for tenants is not very different, it is also 'divided'! The government opens the door for tenants to borrow from IHRU. I must tell you, Minister, that this is not going to happen because if the tenants don't do anything, at the end of the day they will have a free loan from the landlord. It is good to remember, in this debate, that the landlords, for decades and decades, took on a role that led to the state, making them social action, which was a responsibility of all. We have to decide how to protect the tenants, but also not completely protect the owners. The CDS is available to find and help find this balance of protection between tenants and owners and presents a proposal for an amendment so that the State jointly assumes the obligation to pay rents from tenants to landlords, and this is a fair guarantee and balance. Mr President, I would like to leave a final note: Mr Minister, in this bill, the Government considers that a rent-loss of the tenant or the landlord of 20 % — and we agree and follow — must be supported. This same Government, in the case of companies in relation to Layoff, considers that a breakdown of turnover of a company of 20 %, 25 %, 30 %, 35 % or 38 % does not deserve the same support. We cannot have a government with two weights and two measures!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u68	You now have the floor, for an intervention, Mrs Joacine Katar Moreira has not signed up.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u69	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There is no need for an emergency state to fight the current pandemic. what we need is a highly democratic state that fights for the absolute equality of all citizens and citizens; a state that fights every day, and not only in times equal to this, for the absolute extension of social, economic, political and other rights that we are equal. This is essential, especially because these housing initiatives are initiatives that cannot be looked at as state-of-the-art measures. They come from years and years of completely wrong decisions and that did not safeguard all families decent dwellings.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u70	Mrs. Deputy, please finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u71	But we must remember that it is the responsibility of the State to subsidize, support vulnerable families and not direct them to debt. It is also necessary to remember that the Executive needs to be the guarantor of vulnerable families,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u72	Mrs. Deputy, please finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u73	... especially in an environment where this vulnerability increases, resulting from dismissals, abusive in our eyes.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u74	For a second speech, Mr André Ventura has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u75	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Minister, what became clear in this debate was that the Government has acted hastily on a fundamental issue such as housing. For tenants who fail to pay the rents there is a debt that, even if their incomes go down, then has to be paid and has to be over 12 or more months, with a very high bill. More caricature is the situation of the owner, which has nothing to do with non-compliance and the solution that the Government is presenting to him is that of indebtedness. Instead of having participation, the government is indebted to you, at exactly a time when we should be focused on reducing debt. in these cases, Minister, either the owners or the tenants, have families that, in the vast majority of cases, necessarily see their income greatly reduced.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u76	Mr. Deputy, you want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u77	I will finish, Mr. President. The solution presented by the Government is more indebted. At risk, Mr Minister, I would say that it is the only one in Europe, but in this case it is the only bad one in Europe.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u78	For an intervention, Mr. Minister for Infrastructure and Housing has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u79	Mr President, I begin by making an inquiry to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u80	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u81	I ask Mr President whether there is any way to ensure that Mr Ventura is present until the end of this debate to listen to me and that I am not criticized for speaking without Mr Ventura being present.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u82	Mr Minister, you have the floor to close the debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u83	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u84	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u85	Mr President, it is also for an appeal to the Bureau to assure me that Mr. Prime Minister will not call me to your residence to hear you about anything when Mr. Minister is speaking and not taking advantage of the fact that a Member is leaving to speak on his back.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u86	Mr Minister, you have the floor to close the debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u87	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, of course, I could not leave Mr André Ventura with no answer. What happened is that the honourable Member left around 17 hours and 30 minutes and the meeting took place at 20 hours. The Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs was here with me until the end of the debate and was also at the same meeting as the Member of Parliament. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We understand the concerns and proposals of all Members. Members of Parliament and all parliamentary groups and we also know that the various parties have different interpretations of the state's budgetary capacity, and that reading is legitimate and justified. However, in the context of our reading of the budget capacity of the Portuguese State, we considered it risky to move forward, at this stage, to some of the measures put forward by the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen. We tried to find a balance between the defence of the tenant, the defence of the landlord and the defence and the preservation of the budgetary capacity of the State, which will be called upon to meet an infinite number of social and economic needs. The gentlemen. Members, in particular those who consider that the State has an excessive burden, which covers an excessive tax burden and which must reduce its weight, should be more careful in the requirement they make here so that it can, at the outset, ensure that it is the State that ensures all the difference between the income that is possible to be paid and the income that is charged. We do not exclude, we do not deny the relevance of the proposals which are presented here to the left of the Socialist Party, because they make, not only in times of exception but in times of normality, a different reading on the budgetary capacity of the State. We're not all in the same position. When we demand seriousness in politics, one day we cannot complain about the excessive size of the State and the excessive size of the tax burden and, on the other, we are demanding that the State be at all times. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u88	Mr. Minister, please finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u89	We are not all on an equal footing in order, in terms of measures, to make the demands that everyone is doing here.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u90	You really have to finish, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u91	Mr President, I shall end this closing speech by saying that we must continue to monitor the economic and social situation and the shortcomings of our people, as we, the Government, are prepared to scale the measures we are taking at any time. The caution to preserve the state's budgetary capacity tells us to be careful at this stage. We understand that the measures we are presenting are a good balance, calling for an effort to all—the families, the lords and the state. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u92	Mrs. Members, we move on to the next item on the agenda, which consists of the joint debate, in general, of the Bill No 20 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — establishes an exceptional regime for compliance with the measures provided for in the Municipal Adjustment Programmes as well as an exceptional scheme for indebtedness of local authorities in the context of the COVID-19 pandemic and of the Bill No 292 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Provisions to ensure the financial balance of local authorities ( First Amendment to Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March — Exceptional and temporary measures to respond to the epidemiological situation caused by the coronavirus SARS CoV-2 and the disease COVID-19 ). To open the debate, you have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister for Modernization of the State and Public Administration, Alexandra Leitão.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u93	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are here today, Government and Members, on the anniversary of the adoption of the Constitution, to discuss a set of projects and proposals that mark the exceptionality situation that we unfortunately live in today's country and that lives on a global scale. It is an exceptional time and that requires, therefore, exceptional measures that allow not only the central State but also the local authorities of means to meet the challenges that the present moment brings to all. The Government therefore proposes to this House that the expenditure incurred by the authorities in the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic be exempted from the limits of indebtedness, either for the authorities which are subject to the Municipal Adjustment Programme within the framework of the Municipal Support Fund, either for the authorities which are subject to another type of financial rebalancing programmes, for example the PAEL ( Local Economy Support Programme) ), or in general to withdraw such expenditure from the limit of the indebtedness provided for in the Local Finance Act for all the authorities and to exclude any financial liability of the author in such cases. These are the measures that the Government is proposing and which, we hope, are the Members. Members may come to pass. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u94	To present the legislative initiative of the CFP, Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u95	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We addressed a word to local authorities, who, in this period, and within the framework of their skills allocation, have collaborated with the health authorities, with civil protection, with the security forces and with the various entities to protect public health, populations and combat the epidemic at the local level. We also addressed a very special greeting to the workers of the local authorities, who, in the context of the epidemic, are more exposed to the risk of contamination, have been tireless in ensuring essential services to the population, such as water supply, sanitation, the collection of solid urban waste, the disinfection of public spaces and support to the population. The country faces an epidemic outbreak on which the scientific community is still learning. Of course, in the field of public health, everything has to be done to trigger the outbreak, which requires the mobilization of resources and resources for this purpose. The social and economic impacts of the outbreak are already visible in reducing economic activity and reducing family income, which will also have an impact at the level of local authorities, with a predictable reduction of revenue, and may also create cash problems. The CFP brings to the discussion in the Assembly of the Republic a bill with concrete measures to ensure the financial balance of the authorities in this context, with the aim of minimizing the impacts of the reduction of revenue and ensuring greater capacity to solve the problems of the populations, especially in this critical period that we are going through. We therefore propose the possibility of integrating the budgetary management balance into the authorities as soon as the management account is approved by the executive body, i.e. the map of cash flows, subsequently being ratified at the first meeting of the deliberative body, with the extension of the period for holding meetings of the municipal assemblies, as well as the deadline for sending activity reports and accounts to the Court of Auditors. The possibility of incorporating the management balance shall be postponed for a later period, making it impossible for the authorities to have these amounts already available. We also propose an advance for the transfer of a twelfth on the participation of local authorities in State taxes. With regard to the Government's bill, we believe that it should be extended to all municipalities. If, on the one hand, it makes sense for municipalities with municipal adjustment programmes, with sanitation contracts or financial rebalancing contracts to have a set of instruments to intervene in the current context, which enable the cost of the population to be alleviated, in a framework where it is foreseeable to reduce their income, on the other hand, as regards possible additional and non-expenditure to cope with the outbreak and protect the populations, they should be exempted from the limit of indebtedness, covering all authorities. Failure to comply with the debt limit should go further and not only be left to the exclusion of the financial liability limit, but also to include the non-reduction obligation of the debt amount. Considering the variation in the revenue and expenditure inherent in the intervention of municipalities, providing for an increase in unforeseen expenditure and breakdown of revenue, the principle of Article 40 should also be excluded. the law of local finances relating to budgetary balance, as should be excluded the amortization of possible loans. We are putting forward proposals in this regard. The intervention of municipalities in the context of the epidemic outbreak should bear in mind its framework of tasks and competences. It makes no sense, it is not fair and it is even perverse that, on the pretext of the outbreak, a set of charges and responsibilities are placed on the back of the authorities for whose exercise and resolution do not have the human and financial resources. It is obvious that the authorities have an important role to play in combating outbreaks and have contributed to finding support solutions in each territory, often going beyond their competences. But what must prevail is their articulation with other entities, considering their own responsibilities in order to combine efforts to overcome this situation. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u96	For an intervention on behalf of the NAP, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u97	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mr Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, Mrs and Mrs. Members: The role played by local authorities in combating COVID is crucial. If we have already been concerned about the debate about the decentralization of competences for local authorities, which were not accompanied by means, here too, it is with concern that we see the capacity that can be given or not in response precisely because there are also no means given to the authorities. I recall that in this context, the authorities have fundamental roles, in particular in supporting victims, children and young people, and recent news has also alerted us to this reality. It is therefore with great concern that we see the capacity to be given in this area. I also recall that the NAP has advanced with a draft resolution with which it sought to integrate and support the Portuguese municipalities in the collective response that it urgently needs to give to the epidemiological crisis, through the non-applicability of the indebtedness limits provided for in the generally known law of commitments, in all expenditure aimed at ensuring the prevention, containment, mitigation and treatment of epidemiological infection by COVID-19, but also through the establishment and implementation of response programmes, including programmes to assist in the acquisition of essential goods and aid to the realization of daily tasks that ensure more effectively the success of the quarantine decreed. Today we will not debate or vote on the draft NAP resolution by decision of some, some who have called into question the desirable institutional relationship and respect for the good practices of parliamentary work. But still, we will not steal from discussing and voting ideas and contributions that we intend to be of interest and benefit to the citizens, for the impact they will have on the city accounts and, consequently, on the lives of citizens. For the NAP, local power and proximity responses play an absolutely decisive and decisive role in combating COVID-19, which is why we believe that the Portuguese municipalities and all the Fregueses should have the necessary means to implement policies to support the most vulnerable population, as well as policies that ensure a strengthening of the means of prevention and treatment of the disease and, no less important, policies that guarantee the success of the containment measures decreed by the Government. Also at this site, the NAP proposals aim to be balanced in the exercise of adequacy between the response to the epidemiological crisis that we live in and its necessary sustainability. On the one hand, it is important not to leave the local power helpless and on the other, to ensure that the action that is done takes place in a sustainable, regulated, sustainable and controlled manner. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the NAP will vote in favour of this proposal for a law and will, in general, do so in relation to the amendments tabled on this subject, because we know that we are in line with the requirement that the present moment is taking, which necessarily happens by being side by side with the local power, which needs more means to be a strategic partner in this fight. If people need solutions, they need to see their essential goods curated, e.g. not having cut water, light, among others, also the authorities need means, because without means there is no miracle in fighting the COVID. The country has set an example of unity, effort and solidarity and the Assembly of the Republic must now present solutions, and the NAP will not steal from this call.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u98	The next intervention is Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u99	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mr State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members: I would like to begin by praising the role of the authorities, who in this crisis have often had the opportunity to act first and best than the central state. As we have always said, this shows that the closer the power of people is, the better decisions are made. We will therefore vote in favour of the proposed law which the Government brings here and which provides for non-compliance with the limit on the financing of the authorities to meet the costs relating to the fight against COVID-19. But it is essential that the authorities understand that this extraordinary and temporary measure involves difficult and responsible choices. It implies, for example, the cancellation or postponement of all non-priority expenditure previously budgeted — the same as the Central State is certainly going to have to do now. Nevertheless, I would like to give you a warning, Mrs. Minister. The set of expenditure which may be eligible was worth a general consensus, with the exception of the CFP, which has heard of expenditure for private companies - this is the reduction in the waste rate - did not want to know whether companies are small or large, whether or not they are being hit by the crisis, whether or not they are having difficulty in maintaining the work, and therefore, as you heard in « private », insists on wanting to withdraw the expenditure.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u100	Which private? Oh, my God! Intermunicipal garbage collection companies! It's more of a liberal nonsense!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u101	Therefore, Mrs Minister, you will have to confront this list and then explain to Mr Oliveira where the removal of this dimension is.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u102	Mr Luís Testa of the Socialist Party has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u103	Mr President, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group could not initiate this debate without making an objective and special greeting to all the autarchs, all the municipalities and all the parish, all the tens, hundreds and thousands of autarchs who have been mobilized in the fight against this scourge and, above all, to its consequences, which particularly affect the populations of these parish and of these councils. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In fact, local authorities, within their competences, play an essential role and play a good role. But more than that, they play it in the pursuit of the public interest, providing as good conditions as possible the essential goods and services that must be carried out and delivered to the people. It is not possible to develop this work without means and without resources and, therefore, what is presented to us, in the form of a proposal for a law, by the Government is the possibility that, with this approval, we will overcome any constraints that would occur if we did not approve these measures. at a time when the reduction of revenue is also expected by local authorities, at a time when we should focus on what is most essential and that is closer to the citizens, it is not possible that the State also does not have measures that can provide these local authorities with the means necessary to deal with the scourge that we all witnessed. Obviously, the Socialist Party can only agree with all the proposed amendments aimed at strengthening this bill, giving it more strength to combat these asymmetries, many of which occur with the local power. This was the case at all times and at so many times when local authorities needed the state and central power, and it will also be the same today, with the Socialist Party's favourable vote on the bill and the proposals put forward by the Communist Party. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u104	For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Silva of the ENP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u105	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Greens greet the Portuguese municipalities for their efforts to meet the needs of their municipalities at a time when local power is gaining renewed importance. The proximity and knowledge of the territory are now needed on all fronts: in the prevention, detection of propagating lines, social support, medical support and in the various areas to combat the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic. We have no doubt of the effort each municipality makes to ensure that its municipalities are protected from the contagio, so that the contagio is controlled in its territories and, on the other hand, also so that the local economy is able to overcome this stopping phase without increasing the unemployment rate. Thus, all support is limited and the legislative changes necessary for municipalities to have budgetary space to respond to emerging situations are indispensable. However, the Greens want to reaffirm that local powers and autonomy must be respected. The municipalities will have to deal with many social needs, but "Caesar what is Caesar's". Employment, housing, a more strengthened National Health Service and with an investment that is necessary and urgent to do at present are aspects of the responsibility of the central government of the State and The Greens believe that no expenditure should be pushed over the municipalities which are the responsibility of the central power. The additional answers that municipalities may give, in addition to the follow-up they are giving to hundreds of thousands of citizens in isolation — who need only as many times as a friendly word — will depend above all on the support and legal conditions they have to intervene. Moreover, this framework must be similar for all authorities, in particular as regards the possibility of exceeding the limits of indebtedness. We stress that we will not follow up with, nor in the future, anyone who wants to push for the authorities that are not theirs and that it does not seem appropriate for us to want the authorities to do, in this difficult situation, what the government did not want to do, for example, in time of budgetary surplus. In addition to living particularly difficult times because health centres have been closed or because the necessary hospitals and requests have not yet been built, it would not be fair and it would not be right that the authorities still have to pay the bill of the drama we are living. [[Congrats from PCP MP Bruno Dias.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u106	Mrs Joacine Katar Moreira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u107	I will vote in favour of this initiative, as well as its proposals for amendments, stressing that the authorities are the most visible face of the State to the people and that it is absolutely essential to ensure them greater financial capacity. I also recall that the authorities have been fully involved and have a high effectiveness in combating COVID-19. So there really needs to be an investment.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u108	To speak the next speech, Mrs Isura Morais, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u109	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister for Modernization of the State and Public Administration, Mr Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs: Because it is of the authorities we are talking about, I would first and foremost like, and on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, to welcome all the authorships of our country because, at this difficult time, they are, as always, in the front line of taking measures that they consider important and fundamental to their populations. The history of the PSD is indissociable from local power, based on the protagonistship of its authorships and the importance it has always given to the authorities. Citizens and businesses have a direct and daily relationship with the activities of local authorities and recognize their role in the policy of proximity. However, exceptional situations require exceptional measures and responses. The public health emergency we live in, qualified by the World Health Organization as a pandemic, is a public calamity, which requires, as we all know, exceptional measures. The PSD has always argued that for the Public Administration, either central or local, there should be strict management criteria in order to allow the proper use of public money. But, as I said, exceptional responses are necessary. For all this, with regard to the initiative in question, which we recognize as positive, we believe that it addresses issues of the greatest importance in a situation as difficult as the one we are going through. The Government wants to create an exceptional scheme for municipalities, which are limited by financial recovery rules within the framework of the Municipal Support Fund, so that they can carry out social support expenses, the acquisition of health equipment and other measures to combat the effects of COVID-19. This is a step that comes in line with what we see in other Member States of the European Union, with the European Commission itself taking the unpublished and laudable step not to account for the expenditure that countries are doing to mitigate the effects of the crisis. The Government also wants to apply to the generality of municipalities the non-compliance with the indebtedness limits imposed in the Financial Regime of Local Authorities and Intermunicipal Entities for expenses that mitigate the effects of this pandemic. We believe that the government could go further at a time like this, when the generality of the autarchs has called for wider measures. However, the country needs unity and, therefore, we have made our contribution — to including in this proposal — to support the social and solidarity sector.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u110	Mrs. Deputy, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u111	I'm done now, Mr. President. This sector has an essential role in society and is in a situation of great fragility, so it needs our attention. To all institutions and organisations of social solidarity I want to leave a word of support and gratitude for the essential service they have always provided and continue to provide to our communities. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u112	To speak the next speech, Mr João Almeida of the CDS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u113	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are currently discussing two fundamental realities of the moment the country is living. They are the response given by the local authorities and the response given by the social sector — proximity and subsidiarity. from our point of view, what the Government is bringing to us in relation to local authorities is very important for the margin it gives them to be able to deal with the situation in an even more efficient way than they have already done. And it's fair to point out what you've already done. Local authorities are giving a clear demonstration of the importance of proximity in relation to citizens. It is unfortunate that in many cases there is not enough speed of the machine at the central level to monitor the dynamics of the local sector. I am speaking here of a very important reality that, at the moment, exists in many of the country's councils, which is that, at the request of the central administration, the authorities are doing their part in many tasks and then they cannot render service to the citizens, because what depends on the central administration is missing. A clear example of this is screening centers. There are several municipalities in the country that currently have complete screening centers and are ready to enter into service, but that are not at the service of the populations, because there are no individual protective equipment for health professionals to be able to perform their functions in these same screening centers. It is essential that, when we discuss conditions for local authorities to continue to play their part, we also call on the central administration to cooperate more effectively with local authorities and can support so many municipalities and municipalities that have successfully completed their mission. However, there is a omission in this bill which, for us, cannot be left, which is the omission of support for the social sector. The social sector is being the main partner of the authorities at the level of the response on the ground. Therefore, it is fair that the exceptions to the law also exclude the possible indebtedness that the authorities have for the sharing of expenses that the social sector is doing. Here, once again, on behalf of the social sector, we must appeal to other measures other than these: that cooperation agreements be reviewed, considering the increase in national minimum wage and inflation; that these cooperation agreements may have an increase in institutions dealing with the elderly, with people with disabilities and with people in continuous care; that electricity VAT may be partially returned to these institutions; that there are individual protective equipment and tests immediately available so that users and employees can, in a universe at enormous risk, minimize that risk as much as possible. Finally, Mr President, as I began, by valuing and thanking the autarchs, the local authorities, the IPSS, the social sector and the solidarity sector for all they have done by Portugal at this time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u114	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u115	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mr State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members: Looking forward to another anniversary of the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic today, the one that was one of its principles of recognizing the authorities as a fundamental pillar, both in our administrative organization and in our democratic organization, I believe, was a successful choice. It is in difficult times that we evaluate the relevance of choices and, therefore, today, with even more capacity, we can say that this choice was fully successful. The authorities, at a time like this, are in the front line of the response to the pandemic and, of course, there were some topical cases that did not run as well as they should, in general times both the autarchs, either the autarchs responded well to this epidemic outbreak and are empowering the populations to respond to these difficulties. Thus, the proposals that the Government brings deserve our agreement, whether it is to respond exceptionally to exceptional moments and, therefore, we realize that there are expenses, which were unexpected to the normal functioning of the authorities, which must be guarded at this time to respond to the pandemic outbreak, or to respond to austerity programmes, which is what municipal adjustment programmes mean in practice and which do not make sense at this exceptional time. What the Left Block proposes in this context is that what is associated with the WFP ( Municipal Adjustment Programme ) the Municipal Support Fund and the payments that the authorities have to make to this fund, suffer, due to the circumstances that are on the table today, an amendment. We therefore propose that, for at least one year, there should be a suspension of payments to this Municipal Support Fund, ensuring that authorities have the financial capacity to respond to what is now a priority, which is to respond to the pandemic crisis which is rapidly becoming an economic crisis and a social crisis. And in these three aspects, the authorities can and should play a fundamental role. So, and in conclusion, I want to say that we follow the proposals that the Government has brought and that we have also proposed — we hope that they will be accepted — so that the authorities can have greater latitude in their action to respond to the social crisis, the pandemic crisis and the economic crisis and that the State recognises that the priority in this context is not this exchange of internal money, which means payments to the Municipal Support Fund, but rather the response to the specific needs of the people. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u116	Mr André Ventura has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u117	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In fact, a moment like this is ideal for us to praise what Portuguese authorships have done even when, often, as we have seen in Ovar or in the city of Porto, the Directorate-General for Health and the Ministry of Health fail them. The truth and that they have been, the autarchs, to be able to carry out an almost impossible mission, and that deserves at least the highlight of this House. I would also like to say that the reduction of revenue in municipalities is almost certain: either through the tax route or through the way of market dynamics itself, it is impossible for the authorities not to become the entities most affected by this financial crisis. That is why, indeed, it is essential that the limits of indebtedness are not now an obstacle to the response needed by the Chambers and Assemblys to deal with this crisis. But we could have gone much further in this matter — indeed, the Greens Ecological Party itself recognises it, because there is a whole legal and institutional framework which is still to be created and which could have been created by the government to give a more assertive response to this situation in the municipalities. How do you realize that the government leaves out the social sector that is, at the moment, the most in line with the fight against this pandemic and completely forgets these institutions and these organisms, at a time when they are also giving the body to bullets for this pandemic? No such proposals will be impermissible by the arriveer. But we could and should have gone much further, especially in the defence of the social sector. It is thousands of citizens throughout the country who give their time every day, who give their work every day, often in a self-sufficient way, so that the crisis can be fought and do not have the terrible effects that we are seeing in countries such as Italy or Spain. That is what we should highlight today, and this is where these proposals fail, i.e. what they should guard against. In any case, one thing is certain: the municipalities are in the front line against this battle and deserve that at the moment there is no financial constraint that impedes this struggle. [[In the meantime, President Eduardo Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u118	For an intervention, Mr Luís Moreira Testa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u119	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to conclude that, after hearing some speeches here, there is a certainty that we have: our intervention will not be exhausted nor will it be exhausted today. The State needs to continue to pay attention, intervention and present to the authorities and all sectors of activity in Portugal. But there is one question that I would like not to be left behind or go blank at the moment of the debate: the State supports the social sector at present and directly, and not only through the way of the authorities. And what this bill allows, with the amendments introduced, is that the authorities are also exempted from the support they provide to the social sector. Therefore, the presence of the State is guaranteed, through the State itself, also with the social sector. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u120	To close the debate, Mr. Minister for Modernization of the State and Public Administration has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u121	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, and without prejudice to the facts that are always to be accepted, I would like to point out the convergence of all in relation to the absolutely crucial role that the authorities have in developing, either in times of crisis as difficult as this one or in times of normality—I leave here a thank you, which I also do at other times—because they benefit from a logic of proximity on the ground, since they know their populations better than anyone else, they are their IPSS, their social sector and, of course, their municips. We therefore believe that the expenditure and loss of revenue associated with this moment of life justify the proposal we make here and whose convergence indicates it. I would like to add that, of course, the lifting of these constraints, which would arise from the limits of indebtedness, are to be used by the authorities, in strict compliance and in strict respect for their local autonomy, to take the decisions which, within this local autonomy, they intend to take, not to replace the State, but to collaborate all of us — and when I say 'all' we are all: Central State, local authorities, populations — in the fight involving the intervention of all. I would also like to say that this exception to the limits of indebtedness to all authorities, whether or not they are not in the framework of financial support, is intended to remove these constraints in order to give greater freedom to, within the framework of local autonomy, the authorities act. I conclude by saying that we are working with local authorities in meeting their needs, in particular with regard to legislative measures which may still need to be adopted. So this is, eventually, the first of other measures that we are going to take. And why have you moved on? Because, right now, the emergency is imperative and, while we make this survey, we did not want to wait and we decided to move forward with what was already seen as absolutely necessary. But, of course, there will be other measures that will all aim at empowering authorities to do what they do well, which is to support their populations. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President: - Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have thus concluded this debate. of the fourth point of order of business is draft resolution No 359 / XIV / 1. a ( PAR) - Suspension of the term of operation of the Possible Parliamentary Investigation Commission to the State's performance in the allocation of support in the 2017 sequence of fires in the Pinhal Interior Zone, for which no time has been assigned. We shall then proceed to the vote on the Rules of Procedure. We will begin the votes by the Draft Vote No 208 / XIV / 1. a ( presented by PAR ) — Despite the fatal victims of COVID-19, which I myself will read: « Portugal and Portuguese have been confronted in recent weeks with the serious consequences of COVID-19, disease qualified by the World Health Organization as an international pandemic. The epidemiological situation of the COVID-19 has had a worrying development throughout the world, and in particular in the European Union, where its intensity and duration are still unpredictable. In our country, as a result of restrictive measures, which have resulted in limitations to certain rights, freedoms and guarantees, in particular the rights of movement, due to the declaration of the state of emergency, and much due to the commitment of the whole society, it was possible to mitigate the faster transmission of the new coronavirus and thus moderate some of the most harmful effects of the pandemic. Portugal and the Portuguese have known how to mobilize, in a committed, disciplined, patient and serene manner, responding to the challenge of the health authorities and fulfilling the measures taken, avoiding risk situations for themselves and others, giving evidence of their great ability to resist and great commitment to overcome this enormous trial. A crisis that is public health, but it is also economic and social. As a sovereign body, and in the use of constitutional competences, the Assembly of the Republic maintains the continuous monitoring of the evolution of the situation and careful monitoring of the action of the Government and the administration, in particular of the set of extraordinary measures and of an urgent response to the crisis that Portugal and the Portuguese are going through. Unfortunately, despite the unlimited dedication, the competence, professionalism and the enormous effort of health professionals - which go far beyond the strict duty-, are already more than one hundred fatal victims by COVID-19. This is the most violent expression of the pandemic, because irreversible. This is, in fact, a difficult circumstance that we share with many countries and citizens around the world. While it cannot be indifferent to this harsh reality, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its sorrow for the fatal victims of the COVID-19, addressing the families concerned their solidarity and sincere condolences. Do not keep on seeking. ” Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Following the Vote Project No 205 / XIV / 1. a (presented by PAR) - To regret the death of Pedro Barroso. I would ask Secretary Nelson Peralta to proceed to your reading.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u122	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « It was with dismay that the Members and Members of the Assembly of the Republic took note of the death last 16 March of Pedro Barroso, one of the most important names of Portuguese folk music. Antonio Pedro da Silva Chora Barroso was born in Lisbon on November 28, 1950. Trained in Physical Education by the National Institute of Physical Education in 1973, and a teacher of discipline for two decades, Pedro Barroso highlighted himself above all as an author, musician and interpreter. His long artistic career begins at the age of 15, at the National Emissora, next to Odette de Saint-Maurice, with whom he plays radio theater. In 1969, he debuted in the program of the RTP Zip-Zip, after which he launched his first EP, Trova-dor, in 1970, influenced by the French song. From then on, there were almost 30 singles and albums (of originals and collectives) of which he was author and interpreter, and in which they collaborated names like Maria Guinot, Toze Brito, Nicolau Breyner, António Macedo or José Jorge Letria, many of them achieving great success, not without difficulties: in 2009, when he completed 40 years of career, he stated, in an interview, that he had, during the New State, cut letters, banned songs and even the most quickly seized album in Portugal. One of Pedro Barroso's latest performances took place in September 2019 at the Centenary Gala of the ‘ The Belenenses’ Football Club, a club of whom he was an inveterated partner, being the author of one of his hymns. Pedro Barroso also leaves a mark in the literature, having published several titles of poetry and fiction, and in painting, signing vast work as Pedro Chora. True to the values that characterized it, he actively participated in the Portuguese Society of Authors and in the Music Union, integrating their social bodies and in them defending, in an intransigent way, the rights of the authors, which is proof of the Manifesto on the State of Portuguese Music, that he was one of the main promoters, in 2002. At the time of its disappearance, the Assembly of the Republic pays tribute to the author, musician and interpreter, who was also, by song and word, an anti-fascist fighter. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its regret at the death of Pedro Barroso, addressing his family and friends the most sincere condolences. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u123	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Following the Vote Project No 206 / XIV / 1. a ( presented by PS ) — I regret the death of João Gomes, who will be read by Secretary Duarte Pacheco.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u124	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « João Gomes died at the age of 85 last March 24 in Lisbon, after being hospitalized with chronic illness. Born in Lisbon in 1934, married with two children, he was one of the founders of the Socialist Party, he was a Member of the Constituent Assembly in 1975, and a Member of the Assembly of the Republic, by the circle of Lisbon, in the following legislatures until 1985. It also incorporated the II Constitutional Government of Mário Soares, as State Secretary for Social Communication. He was the first Portuguese journalist to obtain a degree in Journalism at the prestigious Lille High School of Journalism, France, in 1966. He served as director of the Diário de Noticias e do Portugal Today, having also participated in the magazine Flame, in the newspaper Republica, in the Luta, in the Diário de Lisboa and in the Correio do Minho. He integrated the governing bodies of the National Union of Journalists in the late 1960s, on a list it affects the democratic opposition, the defender of freedom of information and contrary to the regime of censorship. He then chaired the Technical and Disciplinary Council ( present-day Deontological Council ). Militant since very young Catholic Action, he was diocesan president of the Catholic Workers Youth of Lisbon and later president at the national level of the structure. João Gomes participated in the revolt of the Senate in 1959, which led him to be imprisoned in the prisons of Aljube and Caxias. Later, he was tried and acquitted by the Military Court of Santa Clara. He was arrested again by the PIDE, with regard to the constitution of PRAGMA, a Cooperative for Cultural Dissemination and Community Action, SCRC. From 1972 to 1974 he was president of the Catholic Working League ( LOC ), a body that represented at the Central Board of Portuguese Catholic Action. Already in democracy, he founded and directed until his extinction the magazine Actos — Christians in the New Society. Later in 1996 he was one of the founders of the Abel Varzim Forum — Development and Solidarity. He provided for the Holy House of Mercy, between 1983 and 1986, and the President of the Staff Security Board of the Reunion Gas and Electricity Companies ( EDP ), between 1986 and 2000. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its regret at the death of John Gomes, pays tribute to the exemplary citizen, constituent and former parliamentary and expresses sympathy for his family and friends. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u125	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We moved on to the Vote Project No 207 / XIV / 1. a ( submitted by PAR ) — Regret for the death of Mecia de Sena, which will be read by Secretary Duarte Pacheco.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u126	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « He died last March 28th, in Los Angeles, United States of America, Mecia de Sena, badge figure of Portuguese letters, woman of courage and clarity, who became an example of homeland. Maria Mécia de Freitas Lopes was born in Leça da Palmeira on March 16, 1920. Born of a family with strong cultural roots, he was trained in Historical-Philosophical Sciences at the University of Lisbon. Professor of secondary education, married on March 12, 1949 with Jorge de Sena. Forced into exile by the salazarist dictatorship, they refused their lives in Brazil and the United States of America, without ever losing their connection to Portugal. Single woman, you didn't have an easy life. The defense of freedom, independence of spirit, civic ethics were always beacons that moved it in the insubmissive defense of the freedom and dignity of the next. The homeland has never forgotten such illustrious children. Writer of merit, the Mecia de Sena must also preserve and defend the indelible legacy of Jorge de Sena. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its regret at the death of Mecia de Sena, paying tribute to the woman of culture and exemplary citizen and addressing her family and friends the most sincere condolences. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u127	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We passed the Vote Project No. 209 / XIV / 1. a ( presented by PAR ) — regretting the death of Julio Francisco Miranda Calha. Death I'm so sorry. Mr. Marcos Perestrello will proceed to his reading.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u128	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : « He died last March 28th, Julio Francisco Miranda Calha. Born in Portalegre, on November 17, 1947, Miranda Calha was licensed in Germanic Philology and qualified with the Higher Course of Pedagogic Sciences, having been director of the Preparatory School of Castle of Life and teacher at the National School of Portalegre. Historical activist and leader of the Socialist Party, of which he was founder in Portalegre, dedicated, with outstanding relief, conviction and energy, his life to political militancy at local, regional and national level, having actively and dedicated himself to all the fighting and all the important moments of his party's life. At the regional and local level, he provided relevant services, having been Civil Governor of Portalegre, from 1976 to 1978, and, as a result of the deep respect and commitment in the causes of local power, which followed him throughout his life, President of the Municipal Assembly of Portalegre, elected in the 1979 municipal elections. Member of the Constituent Assembly, was elected to the Assembly of the Republic of I to XIII Legislatures, associating its name with the construction of democratic Portugal and the consolidation of the parliamentary regime, adding decades of exemplary surrender to public life. In the constant and coherent parliamentary life, it served the Assembly of the Republic in various qualities, always with recognized merit, confirming a high sense of institutional duty and public service. It was also Mr Honorary, title received in 2016. He was chairman of the Parliamentary Committee on the Environment, Planning of the Territory and Local Power and of the National Defence Commission, a sovereignty area to which he devoted various reflections and studies and where he committed his high contribution and political knowledge, especially in the last two decades. In the XII legislature, he was Vice-President of the Assembly of the Republic. In representation of the Assembly of the Republic, he was elected to various international parliamentary organizations, highlighting his role in the Parliamentary Assembly of NATO, of which he was Vice-President. Elected by Parliament, and in its representation, he joined the Superior Council of National Defence. In governments headed by Mário Soares, he was Secretary of State of Regional and Local Administration ( II Constitutional Government ) and Secretary of State of Sports ( IX Constitutional Government ). It also incorporated the governments of Antonio Guterres, as State Secretary of Sport ( XIII Constitutional Government ) and State Secretary of National Defence ( XIV Constitutional Government ). Since 2018, he was President of the Directorate of the Portuguese Atlantic Commission, in which he was defending the role of Portugal in the international scene, in defense of multilateralism and a global order based on international law. from the homeland received various tributes and distinctions, that stand out decorations such as that of the Grand Officer of the Order of the Child D. Henrique ( 2005 ) and that of the Great Cruz of the Order of Merit ( 2006 ) or the Medal of the National Defence of 1. the Class by services provided in the area of sovereignty( 2019 ). The disappearance of Miranda Calha constitutes a great loss for the Socialist Party, for democracy and for Portugal. Meeting in plenary session, the Assembly of the Republic expresses its deep regret at the death of Julius Francisco Miranda Calha, recalling his qualities and addressing the family, friends and the Socialist Party the most sympathy. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[Congratulations from the PS, PSD, CDS-PP and BE Member José Manuel Pureza.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u129	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the votes that we have just adopted, I would ask all of us to keep a minute of silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] Mrs. Members, we will proceed with the vote, beginning with the vote on the Bill No 18 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — establishes an exceptional and temporary regime of expiry and of the opposition to the renewal of housing and non-residential leases, taking into account the pandemic of the COVID-19 disease, which is, in fact, covered by a supplementary script of votes. First, I ask Mr. Vice-President, and my friend José Manuel Pureza to replace me in the direction of work. [[At the moment, Vice-President José Manuel Pureza was re-chaired.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u130	Mrs. Members, let us then, in general, vote on the Bill No 18 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — establishes an exceptional and temporary regime of expiry and of the opposition to the renewal of housing and non-residential leases, taking into account the pandemic of the disease COVID-19. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and the CDS-PP abstention.]] We proceed to the vote, in the specialty, of the same Bill No 18 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ). Let us first vote on a proposal submitted by the PSD to replace Article 1. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of PS, PSD, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH and IL, votes against non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstains from BE and CDS-PP.]] [[(a) the amendment to Law No 1-A/2020 of 19 March adopting exceptional and temporary measures to respond to the epidemiological situation caused by the coronavirus SARS-CoV-2 and the disease COVID-19;]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u131	Mr President, may I take the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u132	Please, Mr Telmo Correia.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u133	Mr President, I just wanted to correct that in the general vote on the Bill No 18 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) the CDS-PP voted in favour, so the CDS-PP was approved unanimously. In the vote on this proposal for a replacement, yes, we abstained. I'm sorry, but it was our lapse.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u134	Mr. Deputy, it's registered. Thus, Bill No. 18 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ), in the vote, in general, was adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u135	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u136	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u137	Mr President, in view of the fact that it is a vote in the specialty, he asked for only one precision. The whole proposal of the PSD or only Article 1 was voted on. Oh, yeah?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u138	Only Article 1. or, indeed.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u139	Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u140	We shall then vote on the proposal submitted by the ENP amending Article 1. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP and CH were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, PAN, ENP and MP not included Joacine Katar Moreira and IL abstention.]] [[It was as follows: ‘Article 1 This Act establishes an exceptional and temporary regime for the suspension of expiry and opposition to the renewal of housing and non-residential lease contracts and provides for support measures in the event of income reduction or special vulnerability of individuals and families, in view of the epidemiological situation caused by the coronavirus SARS-CoV-2 and the disease COVID-19.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u141	We then voted on the proposal by the CDS-PP amending Article 1. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD, BE and the non-registered member Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected, votes against the CDS-PP and the PAN and abstentions from the PCP, the ENP, the CH and the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u142	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u143	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u144	Mr President, I would just like to stress the following : the proposal, submitted by the PSD, concerning the replacement of Article 1. the, was approved. Having been approved, I believe that the two votes we have just taken are damaged.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u145	It seems right to me and makes sense, Mr. If we all agree, then we will proceed in this way. [[Pause.]] We don't all agree. Mrs Joacine Katar Moreira is asking for the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u146	Mr President, I wanted to change my vote on the PSD proposal. I vote against.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u147	It is registered, Mrs Deputy, although it does not alter the final result. Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u148	Mr President, I would like to give the following indication : as the proposal submitted by the PSD for the replacement of Article 1 has been approved. the, were affected by the proposals submitted by the ENP and the CDS-PP, because they were amended in Article 1. the, but the proposals relating to new paragraphs 2 and 3, submitted by the Left Block, are not prejudiced because they are proposed to add.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u149	Thank you, sir, for the clarification. We therefore proceed to the vote on the proposals put forward by the Left Block. First of all, we are voting on the proposal by the Block on the Left to add Article 1 ( 2 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the CH and the IL.]] [[It was as follows: ‘2 — It also lays down measures to support the maintenance of its own and permanent housing in situations of non-compliance with contracted credit and measures for the suspension of judicial proceedings for the collection of claims initiated prior to the pandemic situation and not yet completed.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u150	We shall now vote on the proposal submitted by the Block on the Left, adding Article 1 ( 3 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, PAN, ENP and MP not included Joacine Katar Moreira and the CH abstention.]] [[It was as follows: ‘3 — It provides for the provision and requirement of buildings to meet public health needs and the obligation to confine especially vulnerable populations.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u151	Mrs. Members, the vote in the speciality of Article 1. that of the bill is thus impaired. We shall proceed to the vote on the proposal submitted by the PSD to replace Article 2. The proposal of the law. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PS, the PS, the PCP, the ENP, the CH and the IL, the vote against the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and the Abstaining from BE, CDS-PP and the PAN.]] [[Article 2 of Law No 1-A/2020 of 19 March Articles 7 and 8 of Law No 1/2020 of 19 March are amended to read as follows: ‘Article 7(1) — Without prejudice to the provisions of the following paragraphs, all time limits for the practice of procedural and procedural acts to be carried out under the procedures and procedures in judicial courts, administrative and fiscal courts, Constitutional Court, Court of Auditors and other judicial bodies, arbitral tribunals, Public Prosecutors, Courts of Peace, Alternative Dispute Resolution Institutions and Tax Enforcement Bodies shall be suspended until the exceptional situation of prevention, containment, mitigation and treatment of epidemiological infection by SARS-CoV-2 and the COVID-19 disease is terminated in accordance with the following paragraph. 2 —... 3 —... 4 —... 5 — Paragraph 1 shall not prevent: (a) the processing of proceedings and the practice of non-emergency, presence and non-existent acts where all parties intend to be able to ensure their practice through the computer platforms enabling them to be carried out electronically or by means of appropriate distance communication, including teleconferencing, videoconferencing or other equivalent; (b) the final decision of the proceedings in respect of which the court and other entities do not consider it necessary to carry out further inquiries. (a) the period of submission of the debtor to insolvency provided for in Article 18(1) of the Insolvency and Recovery Code; 7 7 7 — urgent urgent procedures shall continue to be processed, without suspension or interruption of deadlines, acts or difficulties or difficulties or difficulties, with regard to the following: (a) in the proceedings requiring the physical presence of the parties, their representatives or other procedural actors, without suspension or interruption of time, or interruption of time, acts or difficulties, taking into account the following: (a) in proceedings requiring the physical presence of the parties, their representatives or other procedural actors, the practice of any procedural and procedural and procedural acts shall be carried out by means of appropriate means of communication at a distance of distance, including teleconference, videoconference, video-call or other equivalent; (b) where it is not possible to carry out the physical presence of the parties, their representatives or other procedural actors, the practice of the parties, their representatives or other procedural actors, shall continue to be processed, without delay, without delay, without delay or delay, provided, provided, where it is not possible or appropriate; (c) where appropriate, where appropriate, where appropriate, where appropriate, where appropriate, where appropriate, where appropriate, where appropriate, where appropriate, where appropriate, the rules are not, where appropriate, where appropriate, provided, where appropriate, where appropriate, where appropriate, where the rules or provide, where appropriate, where appropriate, provided, to ensure, to ensure, to ensure that the necessary, to ensure that the necessary, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, if the appropriate, if the procedure, to ensure as, to ensure as, to ensure as, to ensure, to ensure that the appropriate, to ensure that the appropriate, to ensure as, to ensure that the appropriate, to ensure that the necessary, to ensure that the necessary, the necessary, to ensure that the necessary, to ensure, to ensure that the necessary, to ensure, to, the necessary, to, the necessary, the necessary, the necessary, the necessary, in, in, the necessary, to ensure, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, the necessary, in, the appropriate, the appropriate, the appropriate, the appropriate, the appropriate, the necessary, the necessary, the necessary, the necessary, the necessary, the necessary, the necessary, the necessary, the necessary, the necessary, the necessary, the necessary, the necessary, the necessary, the necessary, the necessary, the necessary, the necessary, 8 — They shall also be considered as urgent, for the purpose referred to in the preceding paragraph: (a) the procedures and procedures for the defence of the rights, freedoms and guarantees injured or threatened by injury by any unconstitutional or illegal provisions referred to in Article 6 of Law No 44/86 of 30 September; (b) the urgent service provided for in Article 53(1) of Decree-Law No 49/2014 of 27 March; (c) the procedures, procedures, procedures and procedures and procedures which are necessary to avoid irreparable damage, including proceedings relating to minors at risk or educational protection proceedings of an urgent nature and the difficulties and trials of arrested defendants. 9 — The provisions of the above paragraphs shall apply, with the necessary adaptations, to the deadlines for the practice of acts in: (a) (former paragraph 6(a); (b) counter-ordination, penalties and disciplinary procedures, including judicial appeal of final or interlocutory decisions, which run in the direct, indirect, regional and autarchical administration services, and other administrative entities, including independent administrative entities, including the Competition Authority, the Insurance Supervisory Authority and Pension Funds, the Bank of Portugal and the Securities Market Commission, as well as those operating in professional public associations; (c) administrative and tax procedures with regard to the practice of individual acts. 10 — The suspension of time limits in tax procedures, referred to in point (c) of the previous paragraph, shall cover only the acts of interference of judicial appeal, graceful complaint, hierarchical appeal, or other proceedings of the same nature, as well as the subsequent procedural or procedural acts. 11 — During the exceptional situation referred to in paragraph 1, the clearance actions, the special clearance procedures and the processes for the delivery of leased immovable property shall be suspended when the tenant, by virtue of the final court decision to issue, may be placed in a fragile situation because of lack of his own housing or for other compelling social reason. 12 — The deadlines for the practice of acts carried out exclusively by electronic means are not suspended within the scope of the tasks of the National Institute for Industrial Property, I.P. 13 — [previous paragraph 11]. Article 8 [...] 1 — During the duration of the measures for the prevention, containment, mitigation and treatment of epidemiological infection by SARS-CoV-2 and COVID-19, as determined by the public health authority and up to 60 days after the cessation of such measures pursuant to Article 7(2) of this Law, the following shall be suspended:]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u152	The voting of the proposals submitted by the Member who did not register by BE, the ENP and the amendment to Article 2 ( 1 ) shall therefore be adversely affected. the, as well as Article 2 ( 1 ). the proposal of the law itself. We shall continue with the vote on the proposal submitted by the CDS-PP amending Article 2 ( 2 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, ENP and Member of Parliament not included Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected, votes against the CDS-PP and abstentions from CH and IL.]] [[It was as follows: ‘Article 2 Expiry, denunciation and opposition to renewal 2 — The production of the effects of the oppositions to the renewal of the landlord’s housing and non-residential leases shall be suspended until the same date, ending the contract on 1 July 2020, unless, in contractual terms, its term should be reported at a later date.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u153	The speciality vote in Article 2 ( 2 ) shall therefore be adversely affected. The proposal of the law. We move on to the proposal submitted by the CH to add Article 2 ( 3 ). The proposal of the law. Let's vote. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, ENP and MP not registered Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected, vote against CH and abstention from IL.]] [[It was as follows: ‘3 — The suspension of the effects of expiry and the opposition to the renewal provided for in the previous paragraphs does not imply the automatic renewal of lease contracts for the legally provided periods, resulting in those on 1 July 2020, unless the extension of the period provided for in paragraph 1 is verified.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u154	We then voted on the proposal submitted by BE to add Article 2. o -A to the bill. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the CH and the IL.]] [[It was as follows: ‘Article 2a Suspension of judicial proceedings for the collection of claims All judicial acts affecting the debtor’s own and permanent housing, including the bankruptcy and legal sale of the property, shall be suspended.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u155	We shall proceed to the vote on the proposal submitted by the ENP for the addition of Article 2. o -A to the bill. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD, CDS-PP, PAN, CH and IL were rejected, votes against the PCP, the ENP and the deputy who did not register Joacine Katar Moreira and abstain from BE.]] [[It was as follows: ‘Article 2a Income Payment 1 — The period of payment of residential or non-residential income is extended until 15 per month, until three months after the cessation of the period in which measures to prevent, contain, mitigate and treat epidemiological infection by SARS-CoV-2 and the disease COVID-19 are implemented. 2 — In the event of a proven reduction in the income of residential tenants, an equal percentage reduction shall be applied at the request of the tenant in their respective incomes and the differential subsidized by social security directly to the landlord, and the latter may opt for the exemption from the taxation of income in the period. 3 — The grant or exemption of IRS shall be granted only to owners whose income is not speculative and shall be, for this purpose, at least, equal or less than 1/20 of the current value of the estate tax. 4 — In the event of a reduction or paralysis of leased economic, social and cultural activities, similar measures should be taken. 5 — Without prejudice to what is stipulated between the parties to the lease contract, the payment of income may optionally be made by deposit or bank transfer to the account indicated by the landlord, as a way of mitigating the possible epidemiological spread in direct contact between tenants and landlords.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u156	We are now voting on the proposal submitted by BE to add Article 2. o-B to the bill. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the CH and the IL.]] [[It was as follows: ‘Article 2b Inability to pay a pension in the event of non-compliance with credit The immovable property for the purpose of the debtor’s own and permanent housing shall be impermissible when the court proceedings reflect the default in the payment of credit granted, as a result of the breakdown of income due to the COVID-19 epidemic, by not exceeding the value of the property’s taxable capital value of EUR 250 000.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u157	We shall immediately vote on the proposal submitted by the ENP for the addition of Article 2. o-B to the bill. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, ENP and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and CDS-PP, CH and IL.]] [[It was as follows: ‘Article 2b Penalties for non-compliance with the payment of income to residential tenants whose incomes have been reduced as a result of measures to prevent, contain, mitigate and treat epidemiological infection by SARS-CoV-2 and the disease COVID-19, shall not apply the penalty for delay of the tenant provided for in Article 1041 of the Civil Code.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u158	We shall proceed to the vote on the proposal submitted by BE for the addition of Article 2. o-C to the bill. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD, CDS-PP, PAN and CH were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP, the ENP and the deputy who did not register Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstention from the IL.]] [[It was as follows: ‘Article 2c Amendment to Decree-Law No 10-J/2020 Articles 2 and 4 of Decree-Law No 10-J/2020 of 26 March are amended as follows: ‘Article 2 Beneficiary Entities 1 — [...]; (a) [...]; (b) [...]; (c) [...]; (d) [...]. 2 — They shall also benefit from the measures provided for in this Decree: 4 —... 5 —... Article 4 Moratorium 1 — [...]; (a) [...]; (b) [...]; (c) [...]. 2 —... 3 — The extension of the period of payment of capital, income, interest, commissions and other charges referred to in points (b) and (c) of paragraph 1 shall not give rise to any: (a) (...); (b) (...); (c) (revocated); (d) (...). 4 —... 5 —... 6 —...’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u159	We shall now vote on the proposal submitted by the ENP to add Article 2. o-C to the bill. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CH and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, PAN, ENP and MP not included Joacine Katar Moreira and the CDS-PP abstention.]] [[It was as follows: ‘Article 2c Persons and families in a vulnerable situation To protect persons and families in a situation of housing or homeless vulnerability, municipalities may request the Government to request public buildings and hotel and similar facilities under paragraph 4(b) of the Decree of the President of the Republic No 14-A/2020 of 18 March.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u160	We shall proceed to the vote on the proposal submitted by BE for a postponement of Article 2. o-D to the bill. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, PAN, ENP and MP not included Joacine Katar Moreira and the CH abstention.]] [[It was as follows: ‘Article 2d Right to public health and conditions of confinement 1 — Within the framework of the social isolation and response needs of angry or inadequate housing situations to the needs of isolation, confinement or compulsory prophylaxis, and under Article 4(b) of the Decree of the President of the Republic No 14-A/2020 of 18 March, the Government and Local Authorities may apply for private buildings. (c) local accommodation facilities, in the housing, room or hostel mode; 3 — The request of this building is for the isolation and protection or prophylaxis of: (a) persons in a homeless situation; (b) elderly persons on a waiting list or currently resident in residential structures for elderly persons; (c) persons on a waiting list for public housing; (d) persons in a housing situation in public housing; (e) migrant workers in agricultural holdings and in an abusive or inadequate housing situation to social isolation; (f) persons at increased risk and more vulnerable to COVID-19 disease and without decent housing conditions to protect them; (g) persons from occupational risk areas such as health, cleaning, collection of urban waste, food sectors and transport that they need to limit the exposure of their families.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u161	We shall immediately vote on the proposal submitted by the ENP to add Article 2. o-D to the bill. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, PAN, ENP and MP not included Joacine Katar Moreira and CDS-PP and CH abstentions.]] [[It was as follows: ‘Article 2.D Inability to update incomes During the period of validity of measures to prevent, contain, mitigate and treat epidemiological infection by SARS-CoV-2 and the disease COVID-19 and after three months after its cessation, income updating is impossible.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u162	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u163	Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u164	Mr President, when it comes to a speciality vote, I would just like to make a statement that should be recorded at the moment, and we have already noted the author of the proposal. This is an addendum article on public procurement, in which Article 7 ( 2 ) of the new Article 7. o -A refers to the suspension of the procedural deadlines referred to in the Public Contracts Code. However, there are other contractual procedures which are not necessarily regulated by the Public Contracts Code. Therefore, the accuracy goes in the sense — then I can distribute — to suspend the time limits for public procurement procedures, particularly those contained in the Public Contracts Code, making it clear that all cases of regulated public procurement under special law are the subject of this amendment. So if the proposal can be voted on in this respect, because it does not alter the object of the proposal, then I will then have the new wording distributed by the parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u165	Mrs. Members, having been informed by the author, as there seems to be, we shall vote on the wording just mentioned by Mr Pedro Delgado Alves. We then vote on the proposal submitted by the PSD to replace Article 3. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, PCP, ENP and IL, votes against the NAP and abstained from BE, CDS-PP, CH and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] [[It is as follows: ‘Article 3 Addendum to Law No 1-A/2020 of 19 March Article 7a is added to Law No 1/2020 of 19 March with the following wording: ‘Article 7a Public procurement 1 — The suspension of time limits provided for in paragraph 1 of the preceding article shall not apply to the pre-contractual dispute provided for in the Code of Procedure in Administrative Courts. 2 — The suspension of the administrative deadlines provided for in paragraph 9(c) of the preceding Article shall not apply to the procedural deadlines set out in the Code of Public Contracts, as approved by Decree-Law No 18/2008 of 29 January. 3 — The procedural deadlines under the Code of Public Contracts which were suspended pursuant to Articles 7 and 10 of Law No 1-A/2020 of 19 March in its initial wording shall be resumed on the date of entry into force of this Law.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u166	The vote on Article 3. that of the bill is thus impaired. We now vote on the proposal submitted by the PSD to replace Article 4. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and CDS-PP and CH abstentions.]] [[It is as follows: ‘Article 4 Amendment to Decree-Law No 10-A/2020 of 13 March Article 2 of Decree-Law No 10-A/2020 of 13 March is amended as follows: ‘Article 2 [...] 1 — [...]. 2 —... 3 —... 4 —... 5 —... 6 —.... 7 —... 8 —.... 9 — Authorization documents, provided for in Article 81(1)(a) and (b) of the CCP, may be exempted, including for the purpose of making payments, without prejudice to the contracting authority being able to request them at any time. 10 — Regardless of the contractual price, the security provision may not be required.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u167	The votes of the ENP proposal for an amendment to Article 4. that of the law proposal and of the law proposal itself 4 are, then, damaged. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on the proposal submitted by the PSD for the addition of Article 5. o the proposed law. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, PCP, ENP and IL and abstained from BE, CDS-PP, PAN, CH and MP not registered Joacine Katar Moreira.]] [[It shall be read as follows: ‘Article 5 Interpretation rule Article 10 of Law No 1-A/2020 of 19 March is to be interpreted as being considered as the date of 9 March 2020, provided for in Article 37 of Decree-Law No 10-A/2020 of 13 March, for the beginning of the production of effects of Articles 14 to 16 as the date of commencement of production of effects of the provisions of Article 7 of Law No 1-A/2020 of 19 March.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u168	We move on to the proposal submitted by the PSD to add an article 6. o the proposed law. Let's vote. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, PCP, ENP and IL and abstained from BE, CDS-PP, PAN, CH and MP not registered Joacine Katar Moreira.]] [[It shall be read as follows: ‘Article 6 Production of effects 1 — Without prejudice to the provisions of the following paragraph, this Act shall take effect on the date of production of effects of Decree-Law No 10-A/2020 of 13 March. 2 — Article 7 of Law No 1-A/2020 of 19 March in the wording introduced by this Law shall have effect on 9 March 2020, with the exception of the rules applicable to urgent procedures and to paragraph 12, which shall take effect only on the date of entry into force of this Law.’;]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u169	We shall proceed to the vote on the proposal submitted by the PSD for the addition of Article 7. o the proposed law. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, PSD, PCP, PAN, ENP and IL and abstained from BE, CDS-PP, CH and Member not registered Joacine Katar Moreira.]] [[It shall be read as follows: ‘Article 7 Entry into force This law shall enter into force on the day following its publication.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u170	We therefore proceed to the overall final vote of Bill No 18 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — establishes an exceptional and temporary regime of expiry and of the opposition to the renewal of housing and non-residential leases, taking into account the pandemic of the disease COVID-19. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, ENP, IL and MP not registered Joacine Katar Moreira and the CH abstention.]] We therefore enter the additional script II and move on to the Proposal for Law No 21 / XIV / GOV — establishes an exceptional regime for situations of delay in payment of due income under housing and non-residential urban lease contracts under the COVID-19 pandemic. Let's vote for it in general. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PAN, the CH and the IL and the PSD, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the PEV and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u171	We now proceed to the vote, in the specialty, of the same Bill No 21 / XIV / 1. a. Let us begin by voting on the proposal tabled by the CFP amending Article 1 ( 1 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP and PAN were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, ENP and MP not included Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from CH and IL.]] [[It was as follows: ‘Article 1 — This Act establishes an exceptional scheme for the payment of income due under housing and non-residential urban lease contracts, in view of the epidemiological situation caused by COVID-19 disease.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u172	We shall vote on the proposal by the NAP amending Article 1 ( 1 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the CH and the IL.]] [[It was as follows: ‘1 — This Act establishes an exceptional regime for situations of late payment of due income under housing and non-residential urban lease contracts, provides for protection measures for vulnerable persons and families and provides for measures to guarantee access to essential services by families, taking into account the epidemiological situation caused by coronavirus (SARS-CoV-2) and COVID-19 disease.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u173	We shall vote on Article 1 ( 1 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PAN, IL and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PCP and the ENP and abstentions from the CDS-PP and CH.]] We shall vote on Article 1 ( 2 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the PAN, the IL and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PCP and the ENP and abstentions from the PSD, the CDS-PP and the CH.]] We shall vote on the proposal submitted by the NAP to add Article 1 ( 2 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP, CH and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PAN and other non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and PCP and ENP abstentions.]] [[It was as follows: ‘2 — This Act is also the first amendment to Decree-Law No 10-J/2020 of 26 March laying down exceptional measures for the protection of the credits of families, undertakings, private institutions of social solidarity and other entities of the social economy, as well as a special system of personal guarantees of the State, within the framework of the COVID 19 pandemic, the second amendment to Decree-Law No 10-A/2020 of 13 March, ratified by Law No 1-A/2020 of 19 March, and amended by Decree-Law No 10-E/2020 of 24 March, establishing exceptional and temporary measures relating to the epidemiological situation of the new coronovirus (SARS-CoV-2), and the first amendment Decree-Law No 10-G/2020 of 26 March establishing an exceptional and temporary measure for the protection of jobs within the framework of the COVID-19 pandemic.’.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u174	We shall proceed to the vote on Article 2. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the PAN, the ENP, the IL and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstentions of the PSD, the CDS-PP and the CH.]] We shall now proceed to the vote on the proposal submitted by the CFP to replace Article 3. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP, PAN and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, ENP and MP not included Joacine Katar Moreira and the CH abstention.]] [[It was as follows: ‘Article 3 Moratory in the payment of residential and non-residential incomes 1 — The payment period for residential and non-residential incomes is extended until 30 per month. 2 — In cases of a proven reduction in income of residential tenants, an equal percentage reduction shall be applied, at the request of the tenant, in their respective incomes and the differential subsidized by the State directly to the landlord. 3 — The allowance provided for in the previous paragraph shall be granted only to owners whose income is equal to or less than 1/15 of the current value of the leased value or up to that value in incomes exceeding 1/15. 4 — In the case of a reduction or paralysis of social or cultural activities, the rules laid down in paragraphs 2 and 3 for housing rental shall apply with the necessary adaptations. 5 — The demonstration of the breakdown of income shall be carried out in accordance with the procedure to be approved by the member of the Government responsible for the area of housing.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u175	With regard to the proposal submitted by BE amending Article 3 ( 1 ). the proposal for a law, the NAP requested the breakdown of point ( c ), by voting together on point ( a ) and point ( b ). Let us then begin by voting on points (a) and (b) of the proposed amendment. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP and CH were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, PAN, ENP and MP not included Joacine Katar Moreira and IL abstention.]] [[(a) a breakdown of the net income of the family member of the tenant in relation to the incomes of the preceding month or of the same period of the previous year; and (b) the rate of effort of the family member of the tenant, calculated as a percentage of the income of all members of that aggregate for payment of income, whether or not to become or more than 30%;’;]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u176	We shall now proceed to the vote on point (c) of the same proposal. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD, CDS-PP and CH were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the NAP and the IL.]] [[(c) persons in unemployment registered at the Institute for Employment and Vocational Training, I. P.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u177	We shall vote on the proposal by the ENP amending Article 3 ( 1 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP and CH and votes against BE, PCP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected.]] [[It was as follows: ‘1 — In the case of residential leases, this law shall apply when: (a) [...]; (b) [...]; (c) a breakdown of more than 20% of the household income of the particular owner in relation to the incomes of the previous month or of the same period of the previous year; and (d) [...]’.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u178	We shall then vote on Article 3 ( 1 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PAN, the IL and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PCP and the ENP and abstentions from PSD, BE, CDS-PP and CH.]] We shall proceed to the vote on the proposal submitted by Mrs Joacine Katar Moreira, a member of the non-registered Member, amending Article 3 ( 2 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP, PAN, CH and IL were rejected and votes against BE, PCP, PEV and MP not registered Joacine Katar Moreira.]] [[It was as follows: ‘2 — The demonstration of the breakdown of income, by unemployment, by layoff or other adependable reason based on the state of emergency, is carried out in terms of the ability to approve by the member of the Government responsible for the area of housing, safeguarding whether or not the income obtained in a formal or informal work situation.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u179	We shall vote on Article 3 (2). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PAN, the IL and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PCP and the ENP and abstentions from PSD, BE, CDS-PP and CH.]] We shall vote on the proposal submitted by Mrs Joacine Katar Moreira, who has added Article 3 ( 3 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected and votes against the BE, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the PEV, the IL and the Member who did not register Joacine Katar Moreira and the CH abstention.]] [[It was as follows: ‘3 — The exemption from payment of any emoluments for obtaining official documents which are necessary for demonstrating the breakdown of income is granted.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u180	We shall proceed to the vote on the proposal by the CFP to delete Article 4. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP, PAN and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, ENP and MP not included Joacine Katar Moreira and the CH abstention.]] We proceed with the vote on the proposal by BE amending Article 4. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP and PAN were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, ENP and MP not included Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from CH and IL.]] [[It was as follows: ‘Article 4 Mora of the housing lease 1 — In the circumstances provided for in the previous paragraph, the landlord is only entitled to the termination of the lease contract, due to the lack of payment of income due in the months in which the state of emergency and in the following three months, if the renter does not make the payment of the due income within 36 months after the end of that period, in benefits equally distributed and paid monthly.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u181	We shall now proceed to the vote on the proposal by the ENP amending Article 4. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP, PAN and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, ENP and MP not included Joacine Katar Moreira and the CH abstention.]] [[It was as follows: ‘In the situations provided for in the preceding article, the landlord shall only be entitled to the termination of the lease contract, due to the lack of payment of income due in the months in which the measures for the prevention, containment, mitigation and treatment of the epidemiological infection by SARS-CoV-2 and the disease COVID-19 and in the subsequent three months if the tenant does not make his payment within 12 months after the end of that period, in monthly benefits not less than one twelfth of the total amount paid together with the monthly income.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u182	We shall now proceed to the vote on the proposal by the NAP amending Article 4. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the CH and the IL.]] [[It was as follows: ‘In the situations provided for in the preceding article, the landlord shall only be entitled to the termination of the lease, for lack of payment of income due in the months in which the state of emergency and in the following three months if the tenant does not make his payment, within 12 months of the end of that period, in monthly benefits not less than one twelfth of the total amount, paid together with the monthly income, unless different agreement is reached between the parties.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u183	Let us now vote on Article 4. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PS and the IL against BE, the PCP and the ENP and abstentions from PSD, CDS-PP, PAN, CH and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira were adopted.]] We proceed with the vote on the proposal by the CFP amending Article 5 ( 1 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP and PAN were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, ENP and MP not included Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from CH and IL.]] [[It was as follows: ‘Article 5 Support 1 — Housing leasers, as well as, in the case of students who do not increase labour income, their creditors, who have, in evidence, broken income, and who are unable to pay the rent of the dwellings which constitute their permanent residence, may apply to the Institute for Housing and Urban Rehabilitation, I.P. (IHRU, I.P.) the moratorium referred to in Article 3.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u184	We shall proceed to the vote on the proposal submitted by Mrs Joacine Katar Moreira, a member of the non-registered Member, amending Article 5 ( 1 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP, PAN, CH and IL were rejected, votes against BE, ENP and MP not included Joacine Katar Moreira and the PCP abstention.]] [[It was as follows: ‘1 — The renters, real estate or real estate, as well as, in the case of students who do not increase labour income, their guarantors, who have, in evidence, the breakdown referred to in Article 3, and if they are unable to pay the rent of the dwellings which constitute their permanent residence, must have their income reduced to the same percentage in order to maintain the same rate of effort, and the State should be the guarantor of solidarity through a specific support programme coordinated by the Institute of Housing and Urban Rehabilitation, I. P. (IHRU, I. P.) may request the Institute of Housing and Urban Rehabilitation, I. P. (IHRU, I. P.), the granting of an interest-free loan for such a programme to support the difference between the value of the monthly income and the index resulting from the application of the household aggregate of a maximum rate of effort of 35 % of payment, in the form of non-scorpoiling performance.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u185	we turn to the vote on the proposal by BE amending Article 5 ( 1 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the PEV, the IL and the deputy who did not register Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstention from the CH.]] [[It was as follows: ‘1 — Residential tenants, as well as, in the case of students who do not increase their employment income, their creditors, who have, in evidence, the breakdown referred to in Article 3, and who are unable to pay the income of their permanent residence housing, may request the Institute for Housing and Urban Rehabilitation, I. P. (IHRU, I. P.), the granting of a non-interest loan to bear the difference between the value of the monthly income due and the value resulting from the application of the net income of the family member of an effort rate of 30%, in order to allow the payment of the income due, and the remaining income of the aggregate may not be less than the indexer of social support (IAS).’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u186	We shall now vote on the proposal submitted by the ENP amending Article 5 ( 1 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP, PAN, CH and IL were rejected and votes against BE, PCP, PEV and MP not registered Joacine Katar Moreira.]] [[It was as follows: ‘1 — Residential tenants, as well as, in the case of students who do not increase their employment income, their creditors, who have, in evidence, the breakdown referred to in Article 3, and who are unable to pay the income of their permanent residence, may request the Institute for Housing and Urban Rehabilitation, I. P. (IHRU, I. P.), the granting of a share in order to support the difference between the value of the monthly income due and the value resulting from the application of the household income of a maximum rate of effort of 35%, in order to allow the payment of the income due, and the remaining income of the aggregate may not be less than the indexer of social support (IAS).’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u187	We shall proceed to the vote on the proposal submitted by the PS, amending Article 5 ( 1 ). The proposal of the law. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the IL and with abstentions from the PSD, the CDS-PP, the CH, and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira]] [[It is as follows: ‘1 — Residential tenants, as well as, in the case of students who do not increase their employment income, their creditors, who have, in evidence, the breakdown referred to in Article 3, and who are unable to pay the income of the dwellings which constitute their permanent residence or, in the case of students, which constitute residence by frequency of educational establishments located at a distance of more than 50 km from the permanent residence of the household, may request the Office of Housing and Urban Rehabilitation, I. P. (IHRU, I. P.), the granting of an interest-free loan to support the difference between the value of the monthly income due and the value resulting from the application of the household income of a maximum of 35% effort rate, in order to allow the payment of the income due, and may not allow the remaining income of the aggregate to be lower than the indexant of social support (IAS).’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u188	The vote on Article 5 ( 1 ). the proposal for a law is therefore impaired and we continue with the vote on the proposal submitted by the CFP for the elimination of Article 5 ( 2 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP and PAN were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, ENP and MP not included Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from CH and IL.]] We shall now proceed to the vote on Article 5 ( 2 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against BE, PCP and ENP and abstentions against PSD, CDS-PP, PAN, CH, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira were adopted.]] We shall vote on the proposal submitted by the CFP amending Article 5 ( 3 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE, the PCP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and NAP, CH and IL.]] [[It was as follows: ‘3 — Housing owners who have proven to have a breakdown of income in accordance with Article 3(5), whose tenants do not use IHRU, I.P., pursuant to this law, may request IHRU, I.P., to grant an interest-free loan to offset the value of the monthly income, due and unpaid, where the remaining available income of the aggregate falls, for this reason, below the IAS.’.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u189	We shall vote on the proposal submitted by Mrs Joacine Katar Moreira, a member of the non-registered Member, amending Article 5 ( 3 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP and IL were rejected, votes against BE and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from PCP, PAN, PEV and CH.]] [[It was as follows: ‘3 — Private housing owners which have, in evidence, broken income referred to in Article 3(1)(c), whose tenants have not used the IHRU subsidy loan, I.P., in accordance with the above numbers, may, in turn, apply to IHRU, I.P., for the granting of an interest-free loan to offset the value of the monthly income, due and unpaid, where the remaining available income of the aggregate falls, for this reason, below the IAS.’.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u190	We shall proceed to the vote on the proposal by the ENP amending Article 5 ( 3 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD, CDS-PP and IL were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the NAP and the CH.]] [[It was as follows: ‘3 — Private landlords which have, in evidence, broken income referred to in Article 3(1)(c), whose tenants do not use the participation of IHRU, I. P., in accordance with the above numbers, may request IHRU, I. P., to grant a share in order to offset the value of the monthly income, due and unpaid, where the remaining available income of the aggregate falls, for this reason, below the IAS.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u191	We shall now proceed to the vote on the proposal by the NAP amending Article 5 ( 3 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD, CDS-PP, IL and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected, votes against BE and PAN and abstentions from the PCP, the ENP and the CH.]] [[It was as follows: ‘3 — Housing owners with income equal to or less than 1.5% of the current value of the lease which have proved to have the loss of income referred to in Article 3(1)(c) and whose tenants do not borrow IHRU, I. P., in accordance with previous issues, may request IHRU, I. P., to grant an interest-free loan, guaranteed by their leasers in case of non-payment of income paid under Article 4 in order to offset the value of the monthly income due and unpaid, where the remaining available income from the aggregate falls, for this reason, below the IAS.’.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u192	We shall vote on Article 5 ( 3 ). o Law No 21 / XIV / 1. a. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes in favour of the PS and IL, votes against the PCP and the ENP and abstentions against PSD, BE, PAN, CDS-PP, CH and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We are now voting on the proposal by the Left Block to add Article 5 ( 4 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE, PAN, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and PCP, ENP and CH.]] [[It was as follows: ‘4 — The landlords in the situation described in Article 3 and 7 shall benefit from a suspension in the payment of municipal property tax during the year 2020 and their payment may be made in a divided manner during the year 2021.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u193	We are now voting on a proposal by the ENP to add Article 5 ( 4 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, ENP and abstentions from PAN, CH and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] [[It was as follows: ‘4 — The provisions in the previous paragraph apply only to private owners whose incomes are not speculative and must be, for this purpose, at least equal or less than 1/20 of the current value of the lease.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u194	We turn to the vote on the proposal by the CFP amending Article 5 ( 4 ). The proposal of the law. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the PS, the CDS-PP, the PAN and the CH, votes against the BE, the PCP and the ENP, and abstentions against the IL and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira.]] [[It was as follows: ‘4 — Moratories and loans referred to in Articles 3(3) and 3(4) of this Article shall be granted by IHRU, I.P., under their tasks, in particular the competence provided for in Article 3(2)(k) of Decree-Law No 175/2012 of 2 August in their current wording, and shall have, as the first sources of financing, the amounts entered in their budget for 20202 from the revenue tax appropriation and, if necessary, the amounts to be transferred to IHRU, I.P., by the Treasury and Finance Directorate-General in the context of housing promotion policies, financed by revenue from taxes entered in Chapter 60, both in accordance with the law approving the State budget for 2020 and in the transitional balances of the SOLARH Programme, established by Decree-Law No 39/2001 of 9 February 2001 on the current network.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u195	We shall proceed to the vote on the proposal submitted by the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira, amending Article 5 ( 4 ). The proposal of the law. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the PS and the CDS-PP, the PAN, the CH and the IL, votes against the BE and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the PCP and the ENP.]] [[It was as follows: ‘4 — Subsidies referred to in paragraphs 1 and 3 shall be granted by IHRU, I.P., under their tasks, in particular the competence provided for in Article 3(2)(h), (i) and (j) of Decree-Law No 175/2012 of 2 August in their current wording, and shall have as their first source of funding funds to be transferred to IHRU, I.P. by the Directorate-General for Treasury and Finance.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u196	We turn to the vote on the proposal by the Left Block amending Article 5 ( 4 ). The proposal of the law. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the PS, the CDS-PP and the IL, votes against the BE, the PAN and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira and with abstentions from the PCP, the ENP and the CH.]] [[It was as follows: ‘4 — The loans referred to in paragraphs 1 and 3 shall be granted by IHRU, I.P., under their tasks, and shall be financed by the State budget through own funds and Community financing, without prejudice to the timetable for responding to housing deficiencies, in particular under programme 1 of the Law.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u197	The following is the vote on the proposal by the ENP amending Article 5 ( 4 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD, CDS-PP and IL were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the NAP and the CH.]] [[It was as follows: ‘4 — The shares referred to in paragraphs 1 and 3 of Article 3(2)(k) of Decree-Law No 175/2012 of 2 August 2012 in its current wording are granted by IHRU, I.P., under its tasks, in particular the competence provided for in Article 3(2)(k) of Decree-Law No 175/2012 of 2 August and have, as their first sources of financing, the amounts entered in its budget for 2020 from the revenue revenue statement and, if necessary, from the amounts to be transferred to IHRU, I.P., by the Treasury and Finance Directorate-General in the context of housing promotion policies, financed by revenue from taxes entered in Chapter 60, both in accordance with the terms laid down in the Law approving the State Budget for 2020, as well as in the amounts transferred from the SOLARH Programme, established by Decree-Law No 39/2001 of 9 February 2001 in its current wording.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u198	We are now voting on the proposal by the NAP amending Article 5 ( 4 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PAN and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and PCP, ENP and CH.]] [[It was as follows: ‘4 — The loans referred to in paragraphs 1 and 3 shall be granted by IHRU, I. P., under its tasks, in particular the competence provided for in Article 3(2)(k) of Decree-Law No 175/2012 of 2 August in its current wording, and shall, as the first source of financing, reallocate the amounts allocated to the loan to the Resolution Fund, amounting to EUR 850 000 000, inclusive of the amount stipulated in Article 154(1) of the Law approving the State budget for 2020.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u199	We now have the vote on Article 5 ( 4 ). The proposal of the law. [[The vote was put to the vote, with the support of the PS and the IL, votes against the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MEP Joacine Katar Moreira and the PSD, the CDS-PP, the CH.]] We shall proceed to the vote on the proposal by the CFP amending Article 5 ( 5 ). The proposal of the law. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, PSD and CDS-PP and PAN, with votes against the BE, the PCP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and with abstentions from the CH and the IL.]] [[It was as follows: ‘5 — The Regulation to be drawn up by the IHRU with the conditions for granting the moratorium, in view of the urgency and its special purpose, produces all its effects from the date of its disclosure at the Housing Portal, following approval by the IHRU Board of Directors, I.P., subject to the approval of the member of the Government responsible for the housing area.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u200	We now vote on the proposal submitted by the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira amending Article 5 ( 5 ). The proposal of the law. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN, CH and IL and votes against the PCP, the MEP's not registered Joacine Katar Moreira.]] [[It was as follows: ‘5 — The Regulation to be drawn up by IHRU, I.P., with the conditions for granting the allowances referred to in the previous paragraphs, in view of the urgency and its special purpose, shall have all its effect from the date of its disclosure, which shall not exceed 7 working days after the approval of this proposal for law by the Assembly of the Republic, at the Housing Portal, following approval by the IHRU Board of Directors, I.P., subject to the approval of the member of the Government responsible for the housing area.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u201	The following is the vote on the proposal by the ENP amending Article 5 ( 5 ). The proposal of the law. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, PSD and CDS-PP, the PAN, CH and IL and with votes against the BE, the PCP, the PEV, and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira.]] [[It was as follows: ‘5 — The Regulation, to be drawn up by IHRU, I.P., with the conditions for granting the participations referred to in the previous paragraphs, taking into account the urgency and its special purpose, shall have all its effect from the date of its disclosure at the Housing Portal, following approval by the IHRU Board of Directors, I.P., subject to the approval of the member of the Government responsible for the housing area.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u202	We now vote on Article 5 ( 5 ). The proposal of the law. [[The vote was put to the vote, with the support of the PS, the PAN and the IL, votes against the PCP and the ENP and abstentions from the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, CH and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We proceeded to the vote on the proposal submitted by Mrs Joacine Katar Moreira, who added Article 5 ( 6 ). The proposal of the law. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP, PAN, CH and IL and with votes against BE, PCP, PEV and MP not registered Joacine Katar Moreira.]] [[It was as follows: ‘6 — They are excluded from the allocation of grants for investment funds, banking entities, insurance entities, mercy and foundations.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u203	We are now voting on the proposal by the Left Block to add Article 5 ( 6 ). The proposal of the law. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, PSD and CDS-PP, votes in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and MP not included Joacine Katar Moreira and with abstentions from CH and IL.]] [[It was as follows: ‘6 — (previous paragraph 5) — The Regulation to be drawn up by IHRU, I.P., with the conditions for granting the loans referred to in the preceding paragraphs, in view of the urgency and its special purpose, shall have all its effect from the date of its disclosure at the Habitat Portal, following approval by the IHRU Board of Directors, I.P., subject to the approval of the member of the Government responsible for the housing area.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u204	We now vote on the proposal submitted by the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira to add article 5. o -A to the bill. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the PS, the CDS-PP, the CH and the IL, votes in favour of the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstains from BE, the PCP, the PAN and the ENP.]] [[It was as follows: ‘Article 5a Extension of the time limit and exemption from tax obligations to private housing owners. 1 — Extension of the deadline for payment of the first payment of municipal property tax (IMI) which expires on 31 May by 30 September 2020. 2 — Partial exemption from income tax for natural persons (IRS) proportional to the breakdown of income and considering only the reduction in income benefiting from the subsidy to be allocated by IHRU. 3 — The provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Article shall be granted to private owners whose income is not speculative, for which they must be at least equal or less than 1/20 of the current value of the estate tax.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u205	We shall proceed to the vote on the proposal submitted by the NAP for the addition of Article 5. o -A to the bill. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the BE, the PAN and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the PCP, the ENP, the CH and the IL.]] [[It was as follows: ‘Article 5a Support for persons in homeless situations 1 — The Government is careful to create a strategic contingency plan at national level, in consultation with local authority, for housing the population of persons in sheltered, in spaces of the State or local authorities that may be appropriate and/or adapted to this purpose, including hotel equipment, military barracks, sports stadiums, campgrounds or other equipment, so that everyone and everyone is entitled to individual rooms (or their adaptation), so that each person can fulfil the social isolation required to all the population: (a) carefuling respect for the identity and gender expression of the LGBTI+ community; 2 — The Government shall regularly raise the needs of the people on the streets in this particular context of COVID-19, requesting support for this survey for the organisations, associations and other entities that are part of NPISA. 3 — The Government shall promote the necessary procedures, in coordination with local authorities, non-governmental organisations, associations and centres of planning and intervention with homeless persons, with a view to ensuring mechanisms to respond to the needs of people living on the streets/ without shelter. 4 — The Government is committed to the articulation of responses with street teams, ensuring that the reduction of teams is resolved by creating alternative responses (such as municipal volunteer banks, elements of civil protection municipal services or other forces), ensuring training (even before the start of duties), screening of new teams, as well as of people on the street in street situations. 5 — The Government shall ensure the distribution of personal protective equipment to all persons of the teams and all persons in situations of homeless status. 6 — The Government shall promote the operation of assisted consumption rooms where the necessary conditions are met. 7 — The Government promotes access to information on VOCID-19 by these citizens, in order to raise awareness about all aspects of this disease, including symptoms and measures of prevention, protection and action. 8 — The Government ensures that institutions providing food, toilets, minimum risk reduction and harm minimisation services (RRMD) continue to be able to provide such services. 9 — The Government is careful to promote the creation by local authorities of centres for the distribution of individual means of protection, inhalable consumption, syringes, nasal naloxone kits, condoms, hygiene and other necessary, where the organisations providing assistance can collect these products centrally. 10 — The Government shall urgently support (through strengthening the funding mechanisms of SICAD) the implementation of individual alcohol consumption management RMDR programmes in order to prevent disruptive behaviour associated with the deprivation of this substance. 11 — The Government supports the implementation of strategies for the analysis of substances on the street, in close cooperation with the risk reduction and harm minimization teams. 12 — The Government develops rapid training programmes in naloxone and its consequent distribution to people in situations without shelter users of psychoactive substances.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u206	We voted on the proposal by the CFP amending Article 6 ( 1 ). The proposal of the law. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP and PAN, votes against BE, PCP, ENP and MP not included Joacine Katar Moreira and with abstentions from CH and IL.]] [[It was as follows: ‘1 — Renters who are unable to pay the income shall be required to inform the landlord in writing up to five days before the first income they wish to benefit from the scheme provided for in this Chapter, together with the supporting documentation of the situation, in accordance with the scope referred to in Article 3(5).’.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u207	We shall proceed to the vote on Article 6 ( 1 ). The proposal of the law. [[The vote was put to the vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the PAN, the IL and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira and the Abstaining of BE, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the ENP and the CH.]] We voted on the proposal by the Left Block amending Article 6 ( 2 ). The proposal of the law. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, ENP, CH and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the CDS-PP and the abstention of the IL.]] [[It is as follows: ‘2 — The provisions in the preceding paragraph shall not apply to incomes on the date provided for in Article 15, and in such a case the notification may be made up to 20 days after the date of entry into force of this Law.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u208	The vote on Article 6 ( 2 ) shall therefore be adversely affected. The proposal of the law. We shall now proceed to the vote on the proposal submitted by the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira, to add Article 6. o -A to the bill. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE, the PCP, the ENP, the IL and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the NAP and the CH.]] [[It was as follows: ‘Article 6A Emergency relief 1 — Citizens living in unworthy conditions, e.g., precarious, unhealthy and insecure, overcrowded or inadequate, in accordance with Article 5 of Decree-Law No 37/2018, may require emergency relocation in order to facilitate compliance with the requirements of the state of emergency and/or conditions worthy of quarantine. 2 — Unions and assembly bodies shall carry out the necessary procedures in order to signal and forward the citizens referred to in paragraph 1. 3 — For compliance with paragraph 1 the request for empty accommodation, including municipal and local accommodation, shall be authorised.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u209	We now vote on Article 7. The proposal of the law. [[The vote was put to the vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the PAN, the ENP, the IL and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira and the PSD, the CDS-PP and the CH.]] We shall proceed to the vote on the proposal submitted by the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira, which shall be added to Article 7 ( c ). The proposal of the law. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against PS, PSD and CDS-PP, PAN and CH, votes against BE, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and PCP and ENP abstentions.]] [[(c) the cultural, recreational, civic and sporting groups and associations of a non-profit nature.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u210	We shall proceed to the vote on the proposal by the Left Block amending Article 8. The proposal of the law. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP and PAN, votes against BE, PCP, ENP and MP not included Joacine Katar Moreira and with abstentions from CH and IL.]] [[It was as follows: ‘Article 8 The tenant who fills the provisions of the preceding article may defer payment of income in the months in which the state of emergency is in force and in the following three months, for the 36 months after the end of that period, in monthly benefits equally distributed and paid monthly.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u211	We are now voting on the proposal by the Greens to amend Article 8. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD, CDS-PP, PAN and IL were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP and the ENP, and abstentions against the CH and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] [[It was as follows: ‘Article 8 The tenant who fills the provisions of the preceding article may defer payment of income due in the months in which the measures for the prevention, containment, mitigation and treatment of the epidemiological infection by SARS-CoV-2 and the disease CVID-19 are in force and for the following three months, for the 12 months after the end of that period, in monthly benefits not less than one twelfth of the total amount paid together with the month’.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u212	We shall proceed to the vote on the proposal by the NAP amending Article 8. The proposal of the law. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP and IL, votes against BE, PCP, PAN, ENP and MP not included Joacine Katar Moreira and the CH abstention.]] [[It was as follows: ‘Article 8 The tenant who fills the provisions of the preceding article may defer payment of income due in the months in which the state of emergency is in force and in the following three months, for the 12 months after the end of that period, in monthly benefits not less than one twelfth of the total amount, paid together with the income of the month concerned, unless otherwise agreed between the parties.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u213	We therefore vote for Article 8. The proposal of the law. [[The vote was put to the vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP and the ENP and the PSD, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the CH, the IL and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We shall proceed to the vote on the proposal submitted by Mrs Joacine Katar Moreira, who has added Article 8 ( 2 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP and CH were rejected, votes against BE and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from PCP, PAN, PEV and IL.]] [[It was as follows: ‘2 — The tenant corresponding to Article 7(c), as an alternative to the difference provided for in the previous paragraph, may request IHRU, I.P. the granting of support to offset the value of the monthly income, due and unpaid, in accordance with the Regulation to be drawn up by that entity, with the same conditions for granting the allowances referred to in Article 5.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u214	We now vote on the proposal by the Left Block amending Article 9 ( 1 ). The proposal of the law. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP, CH and IL, votes against BE, PCP, ENP and MP not included Joacine Katar Moreira and the NAP abstention.]] [[It was as follows: ‘1 — The absence of payment of income in the months in which the state of emergency is in force and in the following three months, in accordance with the preceding article, cannot be invoked as a basis for resolution, denunciation or other form of termination of contracts or as a basis for the obligation to take up buildings.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u215	We shall proceed to the vote on the proposal by the Greens amending Article 9 ( 1 ). The proposal of the law. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP, CH and IL, votes against BE, PCP, ENP and MP not included Joacine Katar Moreira and the NAP abstention.]] [[It was as follows: ‘1 — The lack of payment of incomes that occur in the months in which measures for the prevention, containment, mitigation and treatment of epidemiological infection by SARS-CoV-2 and the COVID-19 disease are in force and in the following three months, in accordance with the preceding article, cannot be invoked as a basis for resolution, denunciation or other form of termination of contracts or as a basis for the obligation to take up buildings.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u216	We shall now proceed to the vote on the proposal by the NAP amending Article 9 ( 1 ). The proposal of the law. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP, CH and IL and with votes in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and Non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] [[It was as follows: ‘1 — The absence of payment of income in the months in which the state of emergency is in force and in the following three months, in accordance with the preceding article, cannot be invoked as a basis for resolution, denunciation or other form of termination of contracts or as a basis for the obligation to take up buildings.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u217	We shall proceed to the vote on Article 9 ( 1 ). The proposal of the law. [[The vote was put to the vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the PAN, the ENP, the IL and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira and the PSD, the CDS-PP and the CH.]] We shall proceed to the vote on Article 9 ( 2 ). The proposal of the law. [[The vote was put to the vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the PAN, the ENP, the IL and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira and the PSD, the CDS-PP and the CH.]] We shall proceed to the vote on Article 10. The proposal of the law. [[The vote was put to the vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstentions of the PSD, the CDS-PP, the CH and the IL.]] We shall vote on the proposal submitted by the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira, which is an addendum to Article 10. o -A to the bill. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP and PAN were rejected, votes against BE, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and PCP, ENP and CH.]] [[It was as follows: ‘Article 10 - The extension of the period of tax obligations (IMI and IRS) to private non-residential owners 1 — Extension of the period of payment of the first payment of municipal property tax (IMI), which expires on 31 May, until 30 September 2020. 2 — Partial exemption from income tax for natural persons (IRS) proportional to the breakdown of income, considering only the reduction of income benefiting from the subsidy granted by IHRU. 3 — Paragraph 2 shall be granted only to private non-individual owners whose income is not speculative, for which they must be at least equal or less than 1/20 of the current value of tax assets of the lease.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u218	We shall vote on the proposal submitted by the NAP to add an article 10. o -A to the bill. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD, the CDS-PP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the IL and the abstention from the CH.]] [[It was as follows: ‘Article 10a Financial support to non-individual owners The Government shall adopt the necessary provisions to ensure the establishment of a support mechanism to ensure that non-individual owners are compensated for the value of their monthly income, due and not paid in accordance with the above numbers.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u219	We shall vote on the proposal by BE amending Article 11 ( 1 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP and CH were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, PAN, ENP and MP not included Joacine Katar Moreira and IL abstention.]] [[It was as follows: ‘1 — Without prejudice to the provisions of the previous articles, public entities with leased or otherwise leased buildings may, during the period of validity of this Act, reduce income to tenants who are proven to have a loss of income of more than 20 % compared to the incomes of the previous month or to the same period of the previous year, where the same results in an effort rate of more than 30% in relation to income.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u220	We shall vote on Article 11 ( 1 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PAN, the IL and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from PSD, BE, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the ENP and the CH.]] We shall vote on the proposal submitted by the CFP to eliminate Article 11 ( 2 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the CH and the IL.]] We shall vote on the proposal submitted by BE to replace Article 11 ( 2 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the CH and the IL.]] [[It was as follows: ‘2 — The payment of income in the modalities defined in the New Housing-Supported Rent Scheme under the conditional income scheme of the rental contracts for housing purposes and social income is suspended during the period of stay of the state of emergency and in the following three months.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u221	We shall vote on Article 11 (2). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against BE, PCP and ENP and abstentions against PSD, CDS-PP, PAN, CH, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira were adopted.]] We shall vote together on Article 11 (3) and (4). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PS, BE, PAN, CH, IL and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD, the PCP, the CDS-PP and the ENP were adopted.]] We shall vote on the proposal submitted by the CFP to add Article 11. o -A to the bill. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the NAP, the CH and the IL.]] [[It was as follows: ‘Article 11a Suspension of payment of the rents of IHRU fires, I.P. 1 — The payment of the rents of the fires of the IHRU - Institute for Housing and Urban Rehabilitation, I.P. 2 — IHRU, I.P. submits to each tenant a payment plan for 36 months of the due income during the suspension period, as well as payments resulting from past debts, and the tenant cannot be charged by any interest or penalty. 3 — Without prejudice to the previous number, tenants may at all times apply to reassess the value of the income on grounds of reason, in particular due to loss of income or unemployment.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u222	We shall vote on the proposal submitted by BE for the addition of Article 11. o -A to the bill. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the CH and the IL.]] [[It was as follows: ‘Article 11a Rentes of the Urban Housing and Rehabilitation Institute The Urban Housing and Rehabilitation Institute shall suspend the payment of income in the building which holds and leases in the months in which the state of emergency and in the following three months.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u223	We shall vote on the proposal submitted by the CFP to replace Article 12. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the CH and the IL.]] [[It was as follows: ‘Article 12 Mora of the tenant The provisions of Article 1401 of the Civil Code relating to situations of stay of the tenant shall not apply during the period of application of this Law.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u224	We shall vote on the proposal submitted by the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira, amending Article 12 ( 1 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP and CH were rejected, votes against BE, PAN, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and PCP, PAN and PEV.]] [[It was as follows: ‘1 — The compensation provided for in Article 1041(1) of the Civil Code for late payment of income from 1 April to 30 September 2020 is not required, provided that the provisions of Articles 4 and 7 of this Law are found.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u225	We shall vote on the proposal by BE amending Article 12 ( 1 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP and CH were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, PAN, ENP and MP not included Joacine Katar Moreira and IL abstention.]] [[It was as follows: ‘1 — The compensation provided for in Article 1041(1) of the Civil Code for late payment of income within the period of validity of this Law is not required, provided that the provisions of Articles 4 and 7 of this Law are found.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u226	We shall vote on the proposal by the NAP amending Article 12 ( 1 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP, CH and IL were rejected and votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and MP not registered Joacine Katar Moreira.]] [[It was as follows: ‘1 — The compensation provided for in Article 1041(1) of the Civil Code for late payment of income from 1 April to the first day of the third month following the end of the state of emergency shall not be required, provided that the provisions of Articles 4 and 7 of this Law are verified.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u227	We shall vote on the proposal by the PS amending Article 12 ( 1 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the ENP, the IL and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PAN and abstentions from the PSD, the CDS-PP and the CH.]] [[It is as follows: ‘1 — The compensation provided for in Article 1041(1) of the Civil Code for late payment of income in the months in which the state of emergency is in force and in the first subsequent month is not required, provided that the provisions of Articles 4 and 7 of this Law are found.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u228	Article 12 ( 1 ). that of the bill is damaged. We shall vote on Article 12 (2). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and CDS-PP and CH abstentions.]] We shall vote on the proposal submitted by BE to replace Article 13. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and IL were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the NAP and the CH.]] [[It was as follows: ‘Article 13 Immediate maturity The termination of the contract on the initiative of the tenant does not make it compulsory to pay immediately the overdue and unpaid income in accordance with Articles 3a and 7a of this Law and may continue to be paid in accordance with Articles 4 and 8.’.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u229	We shall vote on Article 13. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, PAN, ENP and IL, votes against BE, PCP and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the CDS-PP and CH.]] We shall vote on the proposal submitted by the non-registered Member of Parliament Joacine Katar Moreira, to add an article 13. o -A to the bill. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP, CH and IL were rejected, votes against BE and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from PCP, PAN and ENP.]] [[It was as follows: ‘Article 13a Deadlines During the months in which the state of emergency is in force and in the first month following: 1 — Renters may make the payment of the income until the 15th day of each month. 2 — The value of income cannot be updated, irrespective of the publication of any annual income update coefficient, or the provision of a specific scheme by the parties.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u230	We shall vote on the proposal submitted by the NAP to add Article 13. o -A to the bill. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP, CH and IL were rejected and votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and MP not registered Joacine Katar Moreira.]] [[It was as follows: ‘Article 13a Persons and families in a vulnerable situation To protect persons and families in a situation of housing vulnerability or in a homeless situation, municipalities may request from the Government the request of public buildings, camping grounds, hotel facilities and similar property under paragraph 4(b) of the Decree of the President of the Republic No 14-A/2020 of 18 March.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u231	We shall vote on the proposal submitted by the CDS-PP to add Article 13. o -A to the bill. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the PAN and the IL were rejected, votes in favour of the CDS-PP and abstentions from the PSD, BE, the PCP, the PEV, the CH and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira.]] [[It was as follows: ‘13th State guarantee The State undertakes jointly with the tenants the obligation to pay the twelfths of income due in the months in which the state of emergency and in the first subsequent month, in accordance with the rules to be approved by the Government, within 8 days of the publication of this law.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u232	We shall vote on the proposal submitted by the NAP to add Article 13. o-B to the bill. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, PAN, ENP and MP not included Joacine Katar Moreira and the CH abstention.]] [[It was as follows: ‘Article 13b Exceptional rules relating to the period of interruption of essential services 1 — Supply of electricity, natural gas, channelled GPL and water intended for domestic consumption cannot be interrupted in fact chargeable to the customer during the months in which the state of emergency and in the subsequent three months. 2 — Consumers who, depending on the application of the previous number, generate debt to traders are entitled to a fractional payment of the amounts invoiced within 12 months of the end of that period. 3 — For the period laid down in paragraph 1 there shall be no recovery of interest on interest on invoiced to final customers. 4 — The Government shall carry out in its own diploma the provisions of this Article.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u233	We shall vote on the proposal submitted by the NAP to add Article 13. o-C to the bill. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, PAN, ENP and MP not included Joacine Katar Moreira and the CH abstention.]] [[(b) the creation of a simplified procedure for access to the social tariff of electricity and natural gas for household or natural persons whose incomes have been significantly reduced as a result of the state of emergency.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u234	We shall vote on the proposal submitted by the NAP to add Article 13. o-D to the bill. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the CH and the IL.]] [[It was as follows: ‘Article 13d Amendment to Decree-Law No 10-J/2020 of 26 March Article 4 of Decree-Law No 10-J/2020 of 26 March in its current wording is replaced by the following: Article 4 (a) Suspension of the maturity of interest due during the extension period, which will not be capitalised at the value of the loan and cannot represent an increase in costs for the beneficiary entities;’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u235	We shall vote on the proposal submitted by the NAP to add Article 13. o-E to the bill. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, PAN and ENP and abstentions against CH, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] [[It was as follows: ‘Article 13e Amendment to Decree-Law No 10-A/2020 of 13 March It is added to Chapter IX of Decree-Law No 10-A/2020 of 13 March, in its current wording, Article 28a with the following wording: Article 28a Micro-enterprises, small and medium-sized enterprises 1 — Partners who are managers or business administrators who are classified as micro-enterprises, small or medium-sized enterprises in accordance with Commission Recommendation 2003/361/EC of 6 May 2003 shall apply, with the necessary adaptations, the rules laid down in this Chapter. 2 — The support provided for in this Chapter shall not be combined with the support provided for in Decree-Law No 10-G/2020 of 26 March.”]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u236	We shall vote on the proposal submitted by the NAP to add Article 13. o-F to the bill. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, PAN and ENP and abstentions against CH, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] [[It was as follows: ‘Article 13f Amendment to Decree-Law No 10-G/2020 of 26 March It is added to Decree-Law No 10-G/2020 of 26 March, in its current wording, Article 5a with the following wording: Article 5a Companies of microenterprises, small and medium-sized enterprises 1 — Partners who are managers or business administrators who are classified as microenterprises, small or medium-sized enterprises in accordance with Commission Recommendation 2003/361/EC of 6 May 2003 are, with the appropriate adaptations, considered to be beneficiaries of the support provided for in Article 5 and of the other benefits provided for in this Decree-Law. 2 — For the calculation of the extraordinary support provided for in Article 5, reference shall be made to the average of the remuneration received in the first two months of 2020. 3 — The support provided for in this Decree-Law shall not be combined with the support provided for in Decree-Law No 10-A/2020 of 13 March.”]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u237	We shall vote on the proposal submitted by the NAP to add Article 13. o-G to the bill. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, PAN, ENP and MP not included Joacine Katar Moreira and the CH abstention.]] [[It was as follows: ‘Article 13g Exemption from interest rates on loans granted under the economic support lines - COVID 19 The Government will take the necessary steps with credit institutions to ensure that loans granted under the four economic support lines - COVID 19 are exempt from any interest rates.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u238	We shall vote together on Articles 14 and 15 of the bill. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PSS, PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and CDS-PP and CH abstentions were adopted.]] Let us now proceed to the overall final vote of the Bill No 21 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — establishes an exceptional regime for situations of late payment of due income under housing and non-residential urban lease contracts under the COVID-19 pandemic. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of PS and abstentions from PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and MP not registered Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We will generally vote for Bill No. 272 / XIV / 1. a (CH) — By awarding a period of three months of moratorium on housing and non-residential leases. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS and PSD, the vote in favour of the CH and abstentions of BE, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the PEV, the IL and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We shall vote on the application submitted by the PCP, requesting the general vote on Bill No. 285 / XIV / 1 in general. a ( PCP ) — Suspends the legal deadlines and the practice of procedural and procedural acts until the exceptional situation of prevention, containment, mitigation and treatment of the epidemiological infection by SARS-CoV-2 and the disease COVID-19. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, if there is agreement of the House, we shall vote together in general, in the speciality and in the overall final vote, the Bill No. 285 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Suspends the legal deadlines and the practice of procedural and procedural acts until the exceptional situation of prevention, containment, mitigation and treatment of the epidemiological infection by SARS-CoV-2 and the disease COVID-19. [[Pause.]] Once no one opposes us, we're going to vote. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the PEN, the PEV, the CH and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira and the IL.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we move on to the third supplementary vote script. We begin with the general vote on the Bill No 20 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — establishes an exceptional regime for compliance with the measures provided for in the municipal adjustment programmes as well as an exceptional system for indebtedness of local authorities in the context of the COVID-19 disease pandemic. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN, CH, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and PCP and ENP abstentions.]] We turn to the special vote on the Bill No 20 / XIV / 1. a. We shall vote on the proposal tabled by the CFP amending Article 1. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the CH and the IL.]] [[It was as follows: Article 1 Subject This Act approves an exceptional scheme for compliance with the measures provided for in the Municipal Adjustment Programmes (MAPs), debt and budgetary balance rules, where expenditure with support and other measures to combat the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic is concerned within the competence of the municipalities.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u239	We shall vote for Article 1. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN, CH, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and PCP and ENP abstentions.]] We shall proceed to the vote on the proposal by BE amending Article 2 ( 1 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the CH and the IL.]] [[It was as follows: Article 2 (a), (b), (c), (d), (f), (i), (k) and (l) of Article 35(1) of Law No 53/2014 of 25 August 2014 in its current wording are suspended during the application of this Law as regards the obligation provided for in Article 35(3).]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u240	We shall vote on Article 2 ( 1 ). The proposal of the law. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We proceed with the vote on the proposal by the CFP amending Article 2 ( 2 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP and PAN were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, ENP and MP not included Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from CH and IL.]] [[It was as follows: 2 — The provisions in the previous paragraph apply only when the variation in revenue and expenditure is concerned for the promotion of social support to the municipalities affected by the outbreak of COVID-19, within the framework of their respective municipal regulations for the allocation of social support, the acquisition of goods and services relating to public health protection, as well as other measures to combat the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic, provided that they are duly substantiated.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u241	We shall now vote on the proposal by the PSD amending Article 2 ( 2 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of PS, PSD, CDS-PP and PAN, votes against the PCP and ENP and abstentions from BE, CH, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] [[It is as follows: 2 — The provisions in the previous paragraph shall apply only where expenditure is concerned for the promotion of social support to the municipalities affected by the outbreak of COVID-19, the allocation of social support, the acquisition of goods and services relating to the protection of public health, as well as other measures to combat the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic, provided that they are duly substantiated.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u242	The vote on Article 2 ( 2 ) shall therefore be adversely affected. The proposal of the law. The proposal submitted by the CFP amending Article 2 ( 3 ) is hereby followed. The proposal of the law. The NAP requested the first vote of points (a), (b), (c) and (d) and then the vote of points (e) and (f). Let us therefore vote on points ( a ), ( b ), ( c ) and ( d ) of the proposal submitted by the CFP amending Article 2 ( 3 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP, CH and IL were rejected and votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and Non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] [[(c) the application of the social tariff outside the framework of Decree-Law No 147/2017 of 5 December on water, sanitation and waste charges;]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u243	We are now voting on points (e) and (f) of the same amendment. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP, NAP, CH and IL were rejected and votes against BE, PCP, ENP and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] [[These were the following: (e) (Delete.) (f) the allocation of extraordinary support for economic activity, as defined in municipal regulations;]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u244	We turn to the vote on the proposal by BE amending Article 2 ( 3 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PAN and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against the PSD, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the ENP, the CH and the IL.]] [[It is as follows: 3 — expenditure falling within the previous paragraph which is intended to: (a) (...); (b) (...); (c) (...); (d) (...); (e) (...); (f) (...); (g) (...). (h) establishment of solidarity networks to support the population in practical situations such as buying, feeding, collecting and delivering medicines or passing domestic animals; (i) strengthening the hygiene of collective transport and ensuring free parking for its users; (j) creation of local lines for psychological support; (k) providing conditions for the implementation of distance education for all students, without material restrictions or network coverage; (l) social support for the most vulnerable groups or those who have lost no income.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u245	We shall proceed to the vote on the proposal by the CDS-PP amending Article 2 ( 3 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD, the PCP and the ENP were rejected, votes in favour of the CDS-PP, the PAN, the CH and the IL and abstentions from PS, BE and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] [[It was as follows: 3 — (...) (a) (...); (b) (...); (c) (...); (d) (...); (e) (...); (f) (...); (g) the allocation of extraordinary support to social and solidarity sector entities; (h) [previous point(g)].]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u246	We now vote on the proposal by the PSD amending Article 2 ( 3 ). The proposal of the law.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u247	Mr. President, will you excuse me from speaking?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u248	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u249	Mr. President, it's just to make a precision. It is that the PSD proposal is not an amendment, it is a replacement.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u250	But in the script it appears as an amendment proposal.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u251	Mr President, I apologize, but the proposal is to replace it.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u252	All right. So we shall vote on the proposal submitted by the PSD to replace Article 2 ( 3 ). The proposal of the law. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PAN and IL, votes against the PCP, CDS-PP, ENP and MP not included Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstention from CH.]] [[It is as follows: 3 — [...] (a) [...] (b) [...] (c) [...] (d) [...] (e) [...] (f) Support for the social and solidarity sector and people in vulnerable situations; (g) [...].]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u253	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u254	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u255	Mr. President announced the approval of the PSD proposal to replace Article 2 ( 3 ). That of the bill, isn't it?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u256	Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u257	Mr President, we have a problem here: two amendments have previously been adopted to the same number. Therefore, of two: either the proposed replacement of the PSD is approved and the others are not approved or, then, the other two amendments are approved and the proposal of the PSD is not approved. The three proposals adopted are that they cannot be.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u258	Mr President, you are absolutely right, but the Bureau records the votes of the parliamentary groups. But you're absolutely right about that, there's incongruence here. I think there's a replacement proposal...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u259	Mr. President, may I,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u260	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u261	... having a proposal for a replacement, that was what should have been voted on before the other amendments. The order has reversed and now gives this abstract result. This is a problem, because we are voting in the specialty, which will follow a global final vote. I'll draw your attention to that.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u262	You're absolutely right.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u263	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u264	Please, Mr. Deputy. Let's see if we can solve this problem.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u265	Mr President, the problem lies in the indication of what is replaced. It is that the replacement is only in paragraph 3 ( f) and not in paragraph 3 ( 3 ) as a whole. Therefore, from this point of view, it is not conflicting with the approvals we have made before.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u266	Are we all in agreement with this interpretation?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u267	Yes, Mr. President. I was gonna say exactly the same thing.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u268	All right. So we have a harmonised solution to the problem and we solve it this way. The following vote therefore consists of the remainder of Article 2 ( 3 ). The proposal of the law. There are requests from the PCP and PSD to disaggregate groups of points for voting.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u269	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u270	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u271	Mr President, in view of the approval of our proposal for a replacement, we have withdrawn the request for the next vote to be held disaggregated.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u272	All right. Does the PCP also withdraw its request?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u273	Let me see...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u274	Of course, Mr. Deputies. This is an atypical form of work and therefore we must be understanding. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Members, the CFP maintains its proposal for disaggregation. We shall therefore vote on points ( a), ( b ), ( d ) and ( g ) of Article 2 ( 3 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, ENP and Non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and CDS-PP, CH and IL abstentions.]] We now vote on points (c) and (e). [[Subject to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of PS, PSD, PAN and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstains from BE, PCP, CDS-PP, ENP, CH and IL.]] As the proposed replacement PSD affects point ( f ) and was approved, we ended the vote on Article 2 ( 3 ). The proposal of the law. We continue with the vote on Article 2 ( 4 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PSD, CDS-PP, PAN and MP not included Joacine Katar Moreira and Abstaining from BE, PCP, PEV, CH and IL.]] We shall now vote on Article 3 ( 1 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, ENP and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from CH and IL.]] We turn to the vote on the proposal by the CFP amending Article 3 ( 2 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and PAN were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the CDS-PP, CH and IL.]] [[It was as follows: 2 — Any failure to comply with the quantitative limits set out in the WFP as a result of the adoption of support measures pursuant to the preceding article shall be excluded from the obligation to apply the scheme provided for in Article 47(4), but the municipality may, in particular, carry out a review of the WFP, in respect of its deadline, or a absorption by the GEF financial support system of loans to the financial system by not applying the provisions of Article 49 of Law 53/2014 of 25 August 2014 in its current wording.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u275	We shall now vote on Article 3 (2). The proposal of the law. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The vote is followed by the vote on the proposal submitted by the CFP for an addendum to Article 3 ( 3 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and PAN were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP, the ENP, the CH and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the CDS-PP and the IL.]] [[It was as follows: 3 — The setting of mechanisms at the interest rate of loans, either from FAM support, or from loans from the financial system which came up as a result of the epidemiological situation, must be further enhanced by the FAM.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u276	We shall vote for Article 4. The proposal of the law. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall vote on the proposal submitted by the CFP to add Article 4 ( 2 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, PAN and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, CDS-PP, ENP and MP not included Joacine Katar Moreira and the CH abstention.]] [[It was as follows: 2 — The measures provided for in Article 2(3) shall also apply to all municipalities as defined in Articles 5 and 5a of this Law.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u277	We shall proceed to the vote on the proposal submitted by BE for the addition of Article 4. o -A to the bill. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD and votes against the BE, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the PEN, the CH, the IL and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected.]] [[It was as follows: Article 4a Suspension of payments to the GEF Municipalities who have made financial assistance by the GEF under Law No 53/2014 of 25 August may defer payment of the payments provided for for for a period of 12 months.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u278	We shall now vote on the proposal by the CFP amending Article 5 ( 1 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and PAN were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the ENP, the CH and the deputy who did not register Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstention from the IL.]] [[It was as follows: Article 5 Limit on Debt 1 — Failure to comply with the indebtedness limit provided for in Article 52(1) of Law No 73/2013 of 3 September 2013 in its current wording as a result of the variations referred to in Article 2 of this Law shall be excluded from the financial liability scheme provided for in paragraph 4 of that Article.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u279	We now vote on Article 5 ( 1 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN, CH, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and PCP and ENP abstentions.]] We shall vote on the proposal submitted by the CFP amending Article 5 ( 2 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and PAN were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the CH and the IL.]] [[It was as follows: 2 — The amount of changes resulting from the measures identified in the previous paragraph shall be reported to the Directorate-General for Local Authorities within three months of the end of the application of this Act.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u280	We now vote on Article 5 ( 2 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN, CH, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and PCP and ENP abstentions.]] We shall proceed to the vote on the proposal submitted by the CFP to add Article 5 ( 3 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PSD and the NAP and abstentions by the CH and the IL.]] [[It is as follows: 3 — The value reported in the previous paragraph does not apply to the application of Article 52(3) of Law No 73/2013 of 3 September 2013 in its current wording.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u281	We shall vote on the proposal submitted by the CFP to add Article 5. o -A to the bill. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, PAN and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, CDS-PP, ENP and MP not included Joacine Katar Moreira and the CH abstention.]] [[It was as follows: Article 5a Budget balance In 2020 the application of Article 40(2) of Law No 73/2013 of 3 September 2013 in its current wording is suspended.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u282	We shall proceed to the vote on the proposal submitted by the PSD in a new Article 6. o the proposed law. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] [[Article 6 Interpretation rules For the purposes of Article 128(10) of Law No 2/2020 of 31 March 2019, to local authorities which, on 31 December 2019, have recognised in their accounts the debts covered by debt regularisation agreements to be concluded in 2020, may be exceptionally authorised through the dispatch of the members of the Government responsible for the areas of finance, local authorities and the environment and climate action, exceeding or exacerbating their compliance with the limit provided for in Article 52(1) of Law No 73/2013 of 3 September 2013 in its current wording, including the debt of municipal or inter-municipalised services and municipal or inter-municipal enterprises.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u283	We now vote on Article 6. the proposal for a law, which will pass Article 7. o. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall vote on Article 7. the proposal for a law, which will pass Article 8. o. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and the CDS-PP abstention.]] We now proceed to the overall final vote of the Bill No 20 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — establishes an exceptional regime for compliance with the measures provided for in the Municipal Adjustment Programmes and an exceptional system for indebtedness of local authorities in the context of the COVID-19 disease pandemic, with the proposed amendments which have been adopted in the meantime. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u284	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u285	Is it for what purpose, Your Honor?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u286	Mr President, it is to be announced that the CFP will deliver a statement of vote on all the votes relating to the Bill No 20 / XIV / 1. a.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u287	It is duly registered, Mrs. Mr Ventura asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u288	Mr President, it is to announce that the arrival will also deliver a statement of vote on this set of votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u289	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs Joacine Katar Moreira also asked for the floor. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u290	Mr. President, go for quotes.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u291	Stay, go to quotes, register, Mrs. Member. We proceed to the vote on a request by the CFP to request the general vote on Bill No 292 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Provisions to ensure the financial balance of local authorities ( First Amendment to Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March — Exceptional and temporary measures to respond to the epidemiological situation caused by the coronavirus SARS CoV-2 and the disease COVID-19 ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, if they agree, we shall proceed to the joint vote, in general, on the overall speciality and finality of Bill No 292 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Provisions to ensure the financial balance of local authorities ( First Amendment to Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March — Exceptional and temporary measures to respond to the epidemiological situation caused by the coronavirus SARS CoV-2 and the disease COVID-19 ). [[Pause.]] Since there's no opposition, we're going to vote. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstentions of the PSD, the CDS-PP, the CH and the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u292	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u293	Do you ask for the floor to what effect, Mr?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u294	Mr President, having concluded the votes of all draft laws, the PS will require the final drafting waiver and the deadline for submitting claims against inaccuracies in respect of Lein's Proposals 18 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — establishes an exceptional and temporary regime of expiry and of the opposition to the renewal of housing and non-residential leases, taking into account the pandemic of the disease COVID-19, 20 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — establishes an exceptional regime for compliance with the measures provided for in the Municipal Adjustment Programmes as well as an exceptional system for indebtedness of local authorities in the context of the COVID-19 disease pandemic, and 21 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — establishes an exceptional regime for situations of late payment of due income under housing and non-residential urban lease contracts under the COVID-19 pandemic, and to Law Projects Nos 285 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Suspends the legal deadlines and the practice of procedural and procedural acts until the exceptional situation of prevention, containment, mitigation and treatment of epidemiological infection by SARS CoV-2 and the disease COVID-19, and 292 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Provisions to ensure the financial balance of local authorities ( First Amendment to Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March — Exceptional and temporary measures to respond to the epidemiological situation caused by the coronavirus SARS-CoV-2 and the disease COVID-19 ).
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-02.u295	Mrs. Members, let us then vote on this oral request by Mr Pedro Delgado Alves of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Finally, we will vote on draft resolution No. 359 / XIV / 1. a ( PAR) — Suspension of the term of operation of the Parliamentary Investigation Committee for the State's Action in the Granting of Support in the 2017 Fire sequence in the Pinhal Interior Zone. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let us therefore close our agenda today. I thank everyone for their collaboration and stoicism. The elements of the Bureau wish you good health, as well as for your family and friends. The agenda of the plenary to be held next day 8 will be communicated to all. Good health and see you soon. The session is closed. [[It was 14 hours and 26 minutes.]]
