ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists. The session is open. [[It was 10 hours and 4 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Authorities who open the gates of the galleries, please. Mrs. Members of the first item on today's agenda include the holding of elections, to be held in the Senate Chamber, to the following bodies: Constitutional Court, Superior Council of the Magistrates, Board of Supervisors of the Integrated Criminal Information System, Board of Supervisors of the Information System of the Portuguese Republic, Supreme Council of National Defence, Economic and Social Council, National Data Protection Commission, Commission for the Monitoring of Educational Centres, Higher Information Council of the Centre for Judicial Studies, General Council of the Centre for Judicial Studies and Supreme Council of Cyberspace Security. The polls will remain open until half an hour after this plenary session closes. I ask everyone not to forget to vote. In the second point, we have a PSD marking, with the joint discussion, in general, of Bill No. 199 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Sixth amendment to Decree-Law No 96 / 89 of 28 March, which establishes the International Register of Madeira Ships ( RINMAR) and 221 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — The ninth amendment to Decree-Law No 96/89 of 28 March establishing the International Register of Madeira Ships. To present the PSD initiative, Mrs Sara Madruga from Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: For at least 601 years, three words have been deeply interconnected in Portugal — success, sea, Madeira. The success of our nation, the success of our people is, to a large extent, the result of our Atlantic vocation and the rediscovery and settlement of Madeira. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, it was in Madeira where it all began: the adventure by seas never previously sailed, the first experience of settlement, the creation of the first city in the New World, the allocation to the diocese of Funchal of the vastst territory of ever, with jurisdiction over « all lands discovered and to discover» by Portuguese navigators in Africa, Brazil and Asia. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, throughout our history and for centuries, our maritime dimension and our Atlantic vocation have allowed Portugal to go beyond the European territorial periphery and gain scale as a world maritime power. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the sea has been, and remains, an important asset for Portugal. The sea has been, and continues to be, a decisive resource for the future of Portugal. Six hundred and a year later, success, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it still means sea. Six hundred and a year later, success continues to mean Madeira. The International Register of Madeira Ships, created in 1989, is a case of enormous success. The Madeira International Register of Ships - MAR is one of the largest instruments for the development of the national strategy of the sea in Portugal. It is one of the largest registers of ships at European level, either in terms of tonnage, gross arching or in terms of number of ships. The International Register of Madeira Ships is an example of extraordinary success, praised by all, at national, European and international levels. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the fact that Portugal has registered under its flag a fleet of about 600 ships confers on our country the greatest power of representation and influence in maritime transport, in the exclusive economic zone ( EEZ ) in the European Union and with industry organisations, in particular IMO ( International Maritime Organization ) and EMSA ( European Maritime Safety Agency ). The Register is also an important source of revenue for Madeira, but also for the Portuguese maritime administration. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Register also contributes to job creation. The more ships are registered in the MAR, the greater the potential for direct and indirect jobs that can be created in Portugal. With this initiative, the PSD intends to introduce changes to the legal regime of the Register, which are fundamental to enabling growth and increasing the competitiveness and potential of the Register. We are talking about simplifying deadlines and registration procedures and introducing specificities into mortgages. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD is, and has always been, on the side of the International Register of Madeira Ships. For the PSD, the review of the legal regime is essential to increase the growth and competitiveness of the MAR. We hope to have the support of the vast majority of the ladies and gentlemen. Members, in a matter which is very important for Madeira, but which is also very important for Portugal. The success of our Register, the success of Madeira, is also Mrs and Mrs. Members, the success of Portugal. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u3	To present the PS initiative, Mr Carlos Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today's diploma on the amendment of the International Register of Ships of Madeira promotes a change to the mortgage regime, on the one hand, and a replacement of paper logbooks by electronic newspapers, on the other hand, and establishes a maritime technical committee for the Sea. But I would like to say that this debate we are having today is not only about the amendment of the 1989 decree which created this international register, but also about the ability and will of the country, the State and the Assembly of the Republic to create conditions to promote regions that are away from the decision-making centres, to promote the development of regions that are in the middle of the Atlantic, which are faced with structural obstacles and which need such mechanisms to create wealth and employment. I would also like to say that this debate is not just about changing the ship mortgage regime in order to make this regime more competitive and at the level of the best European regimes such as the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, Greece and even Cyprus. This is also a discussion about the path that must be taken to promote the diversification of the economy in a small region, which has a tiny market, which has no economies of scale, which is little resilient to exogenous variables—as we are seeing today with the pandemic crisis that we live in— and which has enormous difficulties in generating wealth. I also wanted to say that this discussion is not just about the need to replace paper logbooks with electronic newspapers and thus show the country's ability to take concrete steps in the digitization of the economy. This discussion is also about a success story, a history that started in 1989 and which today placed this Portuguese MAR Register at the top of the best European records and with more registered ships. I would say that this success story is because of the good articulation that has been achieved between the regional authorities and the national authorities, emerging from here a new generation of more qualified people capable of working in an international environment. Finally, I would like to say that this is not just a debate on the establishment of a maritime technical committee that helps the National Public Administration to respond to the different demands that these 600 vessels require and to monitor the activity of these 600 vessels. This is also a debate about the country, about the future of the country and about the need to take advantage of concrete cases of this nature to consolidate a cluster of the sea, to ensure that the economy of the sea is in fact a reality. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u5	Mr Ricardo Vicente of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, for an intervention, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD and the Socialist Party today bring to debate two bills on the International Register of Madeira Ships. They justify us with the increasing number of requests for registration of ships and their potential for growth, with the improvement of their international quality and competitiveness. They fail, however, to demonstrate the advantage that the International Register of Madeira Ships has for Madeira and the Country. The Left Block cannot accept this path, which in no way benefits those who live and work in Madeira, rather. These are measures that facilitate a register of opaque ships and facilitate the allocation of flags of convenience that benefit from Madeira's offshore and enable international financial moves. The International Register of Madeira Ships is easily summed up: it is the Portuguese State putting its national flag for sale. This flag is then placed on ships that we do not control, which can serve anything, including arms or drug trafficking. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u7	For an intervention, Mrs Alma Rivera of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The consequences of insularity on economic vulnerability are more than clear than clear. High costs of production and transport, lack of infrastructure and technologies, specialization of labour, which makes it difficult for autonomous regions to assert themselves in the internal market and in the face of powerful external markets. This arises from structural options made in the past (and stubbornly maintained) that have deepened asymmetries and bound the country to rules and mechanisms of submission and underdevelopment. Among the wrong options is the International Centre for Madeira (CINM) which, despite being presented as a great business attraction, employment and development is, as the CFP has always warned, a achievement, because it is enough to look at the reality of numbers to see that it generates little employment, little tax revenue and, ultimately, by raising, for example, GDP (gross domestic product) artificially, even makes Madeira out of eligibility for Community support. of the three vectors of the International Centre, the MAR, the International Register of Ships - which allows the registration with tax and operational benefits of commercial and recreational vessels - is perhaps the most potentially valid pole for the regional economy and for the national interest. But the existing regime, in practice, has not been the wonders that have served to justify it. As regards job creation in the sector, as we know, the huge growth of the registered fleet has not resulted in employment for Portuguese seafarers, violating the rules of registration and contrary to the interests of our country, which is the requirement of national crew members on ships which they wish to register. at the level of innovation, we continue with technological delay that the investment policy caused, with waste of energy and contributions from great workers who, when not found employment in Portuguese flag ships, had to work for fleets of other flags. Therefore, despite the MAR being, in the view of the CFP, the most interesting component of the Madeira International Business Centre for a regional development strategy, it has revealed the same fiction as the Industrial Franc Zone : many companies, the overwhelming majority of which without any worker. This is an exponential increase in the fleet of ships flying the Portuguese flag but without Portuguese workers, practically without income for the country. It has served to ensure that foreign shipowners have low operating costs for their vessels, without being obliged to follow the rules and obligations of the national interest. It is a reality of investment and economic effervescence that is a hand full of almost nothing, because it is not because it is one of Europe's biggest records and even the world that this has a concrete translation into the life of the people of Madeira and the country. In view of the fact that we are not accompanying a fundamental option, we admit that the initiatives discussed here today can mean contributions to boosting the legal regime of the Sea as it exists and its attractive capacity of shipowners and ships. We admit that the discussion of these proposals, as a matter of specialty, together with the hearing of the various entities held by competent authorities, may mean an improvement of the Register within its objectives, at the level of simplification, speeding up of the deadlines and registration procedures, such as the regime of the naval mortgage. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u9	I now give the floor to Mr Telmo Correia of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: These two proposals which we are discussing here today, made up of your reading and your analysis, are of an eminently technical nature. That is to say, we have a number of technical amendments, ranging from registration to electronic use, and others, regarding the registration of ships in Madeira and Madeira's own register. What do you offer us to tell us about this? That is to say, today, the CDS has responsibilities in this area, which we do not reject as we have assumed proudly — today, the CDS is part of the Government of the Autonomous Region of Madeira, so it integrates the regional government – and indeed, as has been said here, and well, by the Members who have presented the projects, the first question is whether this is relevant to a country that has the economic zone we have, with the maritime and Atlantic dimension that Portugal has. And I would say that in this economic maritime dimension it is clear that having the third European ship registration centre and one of the most relevant in the world is important for Madeira. Structurally, it is not for Madeira, but for Portugal, because it is obviously relevant to the whole country and makes sense to our maritime and Atlantic vocation. With regard to the more technical issues, and without wanting to enter them, I just wanted to say that it is clear that this modernization that is made has an obvious logic, that it is to ensure, today, in navigation, that a ship that is on the other side of the world, for example, has access to these data, and will only have them if they are in fact modernised and if this electronic system is used. Perhaps this is the most important and essential point of this amendment. That is why it does not deserve us reservations for the interests of Madeira and for the national interest, and we will therefore support these proposals. I would leave here perhaps a note of curiosity, which is the following: the critical opinions we have heard here come precisely from the political forces that have less expression. But do those who have the most expression in Madeira, with more representativeness, and who even assume responsibilities, want the evil and the disinterest of their region? Oh, my God! From that point of view, it is not credible. It is clear that the voices I hear by Madeira are of interest, for the economic development and for the economic affirmation of Madeira,... [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]] ... by this registration and by the existence of this possibility in a country which, I repeat, is an Atlantic country, is a maritime country and has an interest in owning one of the world's largest ship registration centres. It's national interest, I repeat, and with this I'm done.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u11	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u12	For an intervention, Mrs Beatriz Dias of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u13	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen: The absurdity in Madeira's International Register of Ships was clearly evident in the serious incident that took place on the Libyan coast at the end of May. at that time, a ship with portuguese flag saved about 100 migrants drifting in the Mediterranean. I repeat: that ship had a Portuguese flag. But the shipowner was German, the commander was German, and, by rejecting the instructions of the Portuguese Government, he obeyed the Malta authorities to deliver the shipwrecks on the Libyan coast, where the security conditions are absolutely questionable. With this choice, international law has not been complied with, they have not complied with the orders of the Portuguese authorities and people have not been protected. I ask the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, if this is acceptable. In our opinion, it is not and I hope that the defence of human rights, legality and transparency can do, here, a majority to reject these projects. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u14	Mr Carlos Pereira of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u15	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Left Block: I'd like to hear the ladies. Members speak of the families that, in Madeira, depend on the International Centre for Trade in Madeira and the International Register of Ships with the same enthusiasm and passion with which they speak of other peoples. Moreover, the only word I can highlight regarding the last intervention I have heard is ignorance,... [[Protests by members of BE Catarina Martins and Mariana Mortágua.]] ...because what happened on that ship was illegal and therefore, in the face of illegalities, there must of course be different decisions. A record of this nature is not called into question, which has an effective and non-abstract impact on Madeira's families, in a light manner, as the Left Block is doing.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u16	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u17	I conclude by saying that we are not talking about abstract matter, we are talking about concrete matter, and it is only sad the position of the Left Block. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u18	Mrs Beatriz Dias of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u19	Mr President: I would like to stress that the position of the Left Block is the same as that of the national citizens, of all those who live in Madeira and who have difficulty in ensuring their wages. Therefore, I do not think it is reasonable to symmetry between concern for national citizens and concern for human rights. Human directs are fundamental and Portugal has signed agreements that it undertakes to defend migrants who have been shipwrecked in the Mediterranean. What has happened was an extraordinary gravity and therefore it is necessary to review the regime of the International Register of Ships so that such situations do not happen again. [[Protests by PS Deputies Ana Paula Vitorino and Carlos Pereira.]] The regime is not the eighth miracle you have painted and must therefore be revised. Their negative aspects should not be hidden under the carpet, they should be brought to the debate so that we can find a regime that is fair and that does not actually commit illegalities, such as what happened to this ship, in particular. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u20	To close the debate, Mrs Sara Madruga da Costa, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u21	Mr President, before closing the debate, I would like to use the remaining time I have left to answer the questions put here by the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u22	But you can do so in the same speech, Mrs.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u23	So be it. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u24	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u25	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Before closing the debate, I would, of course, like to regret the deep ignorance, the deep ignorance of some regarding this matter and the stance and the anti-Madeira agenda of others, already known. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the success of Madeira's registration is in sight of all, it allows to create real employment for crews and related areas. There are, in fact, ladies and gentlemen. Members, difficulties at present in recruiting more workers in Portugal in these areas. We're talking about a highly regulated and inspected activity at the national level...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u26	Yeah, yeah! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u27	... and we are here to approve what is a review of a legal regime that is a case of success and not to talk about specific cases. Still, I'd like to mention... [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]] Still—Mr Mariana Mortágua, listen! — I would like to point out that the rescue, which has been so spoken and mentioned by the Left Block, has been done in coordination with the national authorities and has allowed it, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen! — to save 98 migrants. [[Protests from BE Beatriz Gomes Dias.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The similarity of the purposes of the two initiatives under consideration allows us to anticipate good winds and good news for the International Register of Ships, Madeira and Portugal. The conditions for the early approval of the review of the legal regime and the continuation of the success and growth of the Register are met. The approval of its review by Parliament will be a decisive contribution to increasing its growth and competitiveness. Simplification of registration procedures will allow an exponential increase in ship registers. More ship records mean more jobs, more revenue and more tonnage. The greater the tonnage recorded with the Portuguese flag, the greater will be the weight and political power in relation to the MAR, at the national, European and international level of our country. The Madeira Regional Government did well to take advantage of the advantages and opportunities of the Sea and the enormous success of this register. The maritime vocation remains one of the best assets of Madeira and Portugal. Finally, I would like to mention an expression by Prof. Adriano Moreira : (...) if Portugal is not to have with the sea, the sea will inevitably come to have with Portugal. Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests by Mr. BE Ricardo Vicente.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u28	Mrs. Members, we move to the third point of our agenda, which are contained in Bill 455 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Clarifies the scheme in which workers of the assigning entity are integrated into the transferee entity within the framework of Article 244 ( 4 ). the General Law on Public Works, as annexed to Law No 35 / 2014 of 20 June, and 467 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Strengthens the guarantees of employees of the assigning entity by making the tenth amendment to the General Law on Public Works, approved in Annex to Law No 35 / 2014 of 20 June, to which no time was allocated for discussion. In the meantime, I must inform you that we already have more than enough Members for the purpose of the quorum of votes. It's also good that when you guys are. Members withdraw to their offices, do not forget to go to vote, because very important elections are taking place in the Senate Hall. We proceed with the fourth point of our agenda, which consists in the general debate of Bill No. 226 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Amendment No 1 / 2001 to the Organic Law of 14 August 2001 which regulates the election for local authorities. To open the debate, Mrs Emília Cerqueira, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u29	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The current president of the PSD has long been defending the need for reforms and adjustments to our electoral laws. For this reason, and after much maturation by the PSD, we have put forward a number of proposals for amendments — some more details and others more general — to our electoral system. The proposal presented here today in this bill is precisely aimed at making amendments to the elections for local authorities. With this, the PSD intends to provide, essentially, for a new eligibility, in order to increase transparency, the transparency that is always talked about, and it is essential that, in legal terms, it be given the body, so that it, in fact, is guaranteed and we do not always have suspicious processes with regard to our local bodies. With this amendment, in particular, it is intended to increase ineligibility, so that there are no conflicts of interest by contract, often in direct adjustments and that they are always under suspicion when it comes to elections by local authorities. It is also intended to make some adjustments to the so-called lists of voters or independent lists, because we currently see a tendency to confuse these lists of voters with political parties, which goes against the norm of our Constitution which prohibits the creation of political parties of a local or regional character. Therefore, the use of acronyms as parties cannot be used and abused, confusing people, groups of citizens and voters with parties. This is also one of the situations which the PSD considers essential and it is important that it be amended. This proposal also aims to eliminate some redundancy, including the forecast, which is still in the law, of the presentation of an electorary card, which does not even exist. Therefore, all this is intended to adapt, making the current law more consistent with those that are the needs of transparency and rigour that society demands of all of us. It should also be noted that this proposal, as always, when the PSD, with the sense of responsibility it has, is not a completely closed proposal. We are open to amendments aimed at improving certain aspects which are necessary, in fact, in accordance with what is also said in the opinions, including the opinion of the National Elections Commission, which draws attention to some adjustments. But I would like to point out that, in general, the National Elections Commission itself comes to applaud this PSD project, saying that it agrees with the best interests and proposing much felt and necessary changes. Therefore, there is courage to make the necessary amendments and the PSD will be here, if it is approved by this House, as we expect it to be, in order to make the amendments which, in the field of expertise, prove necessary. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u30	For an intervention, Mrs Bebiana Cunha has the floor of the NAP. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u31	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Starting with the details for the major aspects, I would refer to the abolition of the voter card, which is obviously an update that must take place, due to its non-existence. For this point, the PSD would certainly have the agreement of the NAP. With regard to the addition of a new special ineligibility, it seems to us that the guarantee of transparency in the relationship between authorities and their service providers is something that needs further discussion and can be done at the centre of expertise. But it also seems to us that what the PSD is looking for with this proposal goes beyond that, i.e., it aims to prevent the participation of certain citizens and citizens, and we cannot forget that one thing is to be candidates, another is to be elected. In order to take possession, of course, they must choose, because either they are elected or they are providers of chamber services or of the parish, and it must be taken into account that the reality of the country differs from parish to parish, and attention must be paid to the different realities. It is essential to ensure that there are no first Portuguese, those who live in large urban agglomerations, and second Portuguese, those who live in desert areas. With regard to the voter card, the PSD removes the silent obligation of the parish board to be opened on the day of the voter act, which, on behalf of the right to voter participation, cannot happen. We also believe that better consideration is needed with regard to the proposed appeal to the Constitutional Court, since heeding the opinion of the National Elections Commission might put the advance vote at risk. But this PSD proposal seems to have very specific recipients. We ask: Does the PSD want to get in the law what he knows he won't get in the polls? [[Protests from PSD MP João Moura.]] It is proposed to do so in a very discreet manner, because of the prediction of a standard which prevents a group of electorate citizens from using in their designation the term 'party' and from being able to apply with the same name to chambers and assemblies. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, particularly the PSD, I would like to remind you that when they tried to resolve this issue by judicial means in port, they lost and the cable judgment of the port was clear when they said that the use of the term « party » by a group of electors « does not allow their confusion with political parties ». The citizens and citizens of Porto, when they vote, for example, in the Rui Moreira Movement do not do so for the same reason to have in their designation the term « party », certainly do so in the same way as when they vote in the PAN, in the PSD or in another party. Even there are parties like the NAP, for example, that choose not to have the term « party » in their designation. Is this the next step of the PSD, forcing parties to have the term « party » in their designation, so that they do not confuse themselves with the movements of citizens?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u32	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u33	I shall conclude, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. PSD members, the groups of electorate citizens are in fact a form of participation in public life. As much as it may cost you, the path should not be that of restriction. We will be with the PSD when they want to define mechanisms to prevent citizen groups from being abused by parties to do image cleaning in difficult times.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u34	For an intervention, Mrs Cecilia Meireles of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u35	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This draft law now presented by the PSD has some details and proposals which, from our point of view, make sense. This is the case with the replacement of the voter card, which, in fact, does not make sense of the amendments that are no longer recent, as is also the case with some amendments that have to do with the transparency and extension of a system of incompatibilities which, in spite of everything, I believe in the field of specialty must be well seen. I don't know if it will make sense to go that far, but in any case, there is a need for transparency here that we agree with. What the CDS cannot agree with is the real object of this initiative, because I believe everyone will realize that it has a name: « Rui Moreira initiative ». It is an initiative that aims to prevent in the secretariat a group of electorate citizens who effectively won the Port House, which is called « Porto, our party », headed by Rui Moreira, and which, as it is public and notorious, the CDS supported. So from this point of view, I think there will be no doubt that we will be against this initiative. It makes no sense that if you want to prohibit by law an option that is manifestly suffocated in the polls. I understand that the PSD disagrees with the governance of the city of Porto but has to solve this problem in the polls, it cannot resolve it in the legislation. I would like to add the following: the question is deeper than it may seem. Parties are essential to democracies. I do not know any true democracy in the world in which there are no parties and must be respected as such. However, the parties are of democracy and Portugal, it is not Portugal and the democracy that are of the parties. The parties are not the owners of the country or the owners of democracy. Therefore, whatever it is to avoid confusion, whatever it is to avoid the creation of groups of electorate citizens who aim to resolve internal divisions of parties, we are open to discussion; in what is to prohibit, through the law, what the electorate citizens have suffered in the polls, as is the case with the movement headed by Rui Moreira, in Porto, of course that the CDS will be against the PSD proposals. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u36	Mr José Maria Cardoso, of the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, spoke for one speech. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u37	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are today discussing this proposal for an amendment to the Electoral Law for Local Authorities and I would like to raise three points which are important for us. First of all, and with regard to the revocation of the article referring to the voter card, nothing to be said, until there is no such document anymore. As for the extension of special ineligibility, in fact, they are justified to guarantee the dignity and genuineness of the electoral act, and ineligibility works as a restriction on access to elected positions. In 2001, the Constitutional Court ruled on three cases in this situation through three judgments. And they were concrete situations: the candidacy of the partner of a company, the candidacy of a partner manager of a company with whom the chamber held contracts of employment; the candidification of a president of a cooperative. So there are specific cases. What is now proposed by the PSD is that members of commercial or civil societies—and not only managers or members of the social bodies of a company—and liberal professionals providing services to the Authority are also considered ineligible. Nothing to oppose because we understand that this can and should contribute to greater transparency and clarity of positions. As regards applications from groups of citizens, Article 19 (4) is inserted. which has a very confusing writing, likely to be a focus of diverse interpretations, so we suggest that this writing be improved. It is something in which we are not in disagreement but we understand that this same wording must be substantially improved. As regards the general requirements for the application of Article 23. this law adds several points to point 4 which intend to reinforce the requirement of non-confoundability with political parties and, in this sense, have our generic approval. However, the provision in point (b) provides that the group of electors may state in its name only the name of the first candidate on the list of candidates to the applicant body. However, this wording is clearly the promotion of applications around a single figure, the customization of a leader, undoubtedly extending the ground for uninominal candidatures in other elections, for example for the Assembly of the Republic, in which the right, specifically the PSD, insists so much. in this case, specifically in point (b), they will have our disagreement and therefore our rejection. However, if this document goes down to the committee for discussion on the specialty, we will be available to help improve it. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u38	Mr Pedro Delgado Alves of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u39	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The legislative initiative presented by the Social Democratic Party today seeks to respond to a number of situations identified several years ago in the electoral legislation and whose correction can effectively make some aspects of the legislation clearer and better. Obviously, the issue of the number of voters and the voter card is free of any doubt, and it is only necessary to ensure that the rule which is repealed remains in force, in any way, with regard to the support that the parish must give to voters on the day of the election. In the rest, of course, there are issues that we can work on, in particular, on the need to revisit, if any, some other ineligibilitys which may make sense in the context of a review of the law, in particular the matter concerning the possibility of simultaneous candidatures more than one body of the same local authority, which in some circumstances does not contribute to the clear and separate form of functions between the chamber and the municipal assembly which, at times, can generate simultaneous candidatures, which we leave as possible for evaluation in the field of speciality. As regards the need to clarify the compatibility regime between incompatibilities and ineligibility, we have made a very substantial reform of the incompatibilities regime in the past legislation and it may be interesting to see if it is also not important to revisit some ineligibility so that it can be sure of what was determined at that headquarters in the past legislation. But, above all, it is important to bear in mind that what is proposed — and we have all the availability to discuss it — is a democratic imperative for the identification of candidatures of groups of electors. That is to say, Mrs Bebiana Cunha's speech, a little while ago, was evocative of Magritte! [[Just like that!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u40	One thing is either a pipe or it is not a pipe and a group of electorate citizens or it is or is a party. What can't be trying to be or seem to be both at the same time! It is not at stake that a choice party does not put the designation 'party' in its identification, it is free to do; we are talking about the opposite, that is, a group of electors who are not, legitimately—and that is legitimate of their perspective—to confuse themselves with a political party does not seem to me to treat voters with the respect they deserve. Therefore, in this sense, the proposal presented makes sense. Finally, and even if it is not part of the subject matter of the amendments, we believe that it can also be important to reflect on another related matter that has to do with the organization of the electoral act. In the past, we have noted several situations in which the size of the number of voters per vote section could, in some cases, prejudice the fluidity of the electoral process in this area—in fact, my colleague John Paul Correia has already noted this in this House in a previous debate—and this could be an opportunity to try to correct this, ensuring that the tables and the voting sections have a dimension that prevents congestion at the time of the vote. Autarchic elections are the most important participants we have in our electoral framework, and we can therefore take this opportunity to globally correct something that may in some circumstances have promoted difficulties in access to the voting place - it seems extremely useful to us. In the rest, we are constructively available to help improve the quality of the electoral legislation and hope that the debate will surely be concluded in the time of the forthcoming elections, but perhaps even at the end of this legislative session. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u41	Mr António Filipe of the CFP Parliamentary Group speaks for one speech. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u42	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This project that the PSD brings here contains several aspects that it is important to analyze. Some are peaceful, particularly with regard to the elimination of references which are out of date, but there are two more questions of substance, which are those related to groups of electors and those related to ineligibility. It seems to us that it makes sense to raise the issue raised with regard to groups of electorate citizens. We have nothing against the groups of electorate citizens, but we refuse any idea of political or moral superiority of the groups of electorate citizens in relation to political parties. The groups of electorate citizens, like political parties, have virtues and defects, are not only a well of virtues and therefore clear rules must be found and that do not favour or harm the candidatures of the groups of electorate citizens. Mrs Cecilia Meireles accused the PSD of proposing an anti-Rui Moreira law. It is curious, because if there was « Rui Moreira law » it was the one that was approved a few years ago, by PS and CDS, at a time when the PS had not yet been thrown offboard! Therefore, the PS passed a law to clearly favour the candidacy of Rui Moreira, so that it was even treated here as the « Rui Moreira law », and a few days after its approval the PS was thrown off the edge by Dr. Rui Moreira. That was the "law Rui Moreira"! Therefore, what matters is to find rules that are clear and, in this regard, we understand that there must be a discussion in the specialty, without any difficulty. On the issue of ineligibility, however, the problem here is this: we understand that there are reasons for transparency, for preventing possible acts of corruption, for preventing anyone from taking advantage of a role that is exercised in a local authority to promote their own candidacy. But it's important to mention two things. First of all, these problems of ineligibility and incompatibility must be seen with great care, because this is indeed a restriction of fundamental rights, since the constitutional principle is the principle of freedom of candidacy for all citizens, on an equal footing. It is that, at present, these types of impediments exist in relation to persons with leadership positions in local authorities, not with respect to any official or service provider and therefore the extension of these ineligibility must be seen with care. Then we have to check whether, in fact, we want ineligibility or incompatibility, because they are different situations and the degree of restriction is much greater when it comes to ineligibility. And, in this case, we can be faced with complicated solutions from a constitutional point of view. In any case, that is not what will prevent us from appreciating this proposal in the specialty, in the various aspects it involves, because, in fact, the purpose...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u43	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u44	I conclude immediately, Mr President. As I was saying, we are not unable to appreciate this proposal in the field, in the various aspects it involves, because in fact the purpose is to solve some real problems that exist and, in this sense, we have all the availability. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u45	For an intervention, Mr André Ventura, of the Arrival, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u46	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The project brought us here by the PSD has an unequivocal advantage, which is to try to prevent matters of conflict. In any case, there are matters which, in the specialty, must be further examined, such as what partners are excluded by ineligibility. Will industry partners, for example, be inside or outside these ineligibles? Especially given the already clear case-law of the Constitutional Court, it is something that deserves to be reviewed. The same is said in relation to the conditionant of the symbols, because, being certain that parties and movements should not be equated or confused — that is evidence — it must not be forgotten that, in terms of symbols, the appeals are for the Constitutional Court, which, if taken to the last process, may determine that, for example, the advance vote is not possible or, at least, not concrete. It is a matter that deserves to be reviewed, since, and there is no way to escape, in terms of symbols, it must always be the Constitutional Court to have the last word. Moreover, there is an unequivocally positive matter, which is to establish the clear separation between movements and parties—and this is something to applaud—and without ending them, without wanting to promote them, but making it clear that, in fact, one thing is something, another thing is something else. However, the process in the specialty must improve some conditions of this norm, under the penalty of unconstitutionality.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u47	To intervene, Mrs Emília Cerqueira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u48	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to thank all the issues that have been raised and perhaps I would begin by the end, by those which seem very relevant to me and which have been put either by the Socialist Party or by the CFP and so far by the Arrival, in this last intervention. There is one aspect which, for the PSD, seems fundamental, which is that citizens' movements with parties cannot be confused, whatever the pretext is. This is also a condition of a healthy democracy and a clear exercise of citizens' rights. It can never be confused or tried to confuse itself, as we have heard here, in some of the interventions, this need for clarification with the restriction of rights, because in the PSD proposal there is not a single article restricting rights, except as regards ineligibility or some other questions that may be raised. But in terms of electoral capacity and the candidacy of elective citizens, there is no restriction on that capacity. In fact, neither is that the premise, nor is that the way in which the PSD is to be in politics and democracy. So one thing is the restriction of rights—and this, never! — another thing, quite different, is the clarification of what are movements of citizens and political parties, so that there is not, let us say, requirements for some who then do not happen to others. To put the question that if political parties were to be banned from using the expression 'political parties', of course, does not make any sense nor is that, and could never be, the objective of our proposals. But with regard to these PSD proposals, in fact, I said this in my initial speech at the time of the initiative, we are open to accepting some suggestions and working on the diploma in the specialty, because, in fact, we accept, taking into account the opinions we have received, that there is a need for some more obvious adjustments, some others, not so much, so that we have a good law, which is what ultimately, if it is to have a good law, for the proper functioning of democracy and the elections of the local authorities. It seems relevant to us, and I would like to end this, the question of the Constitutional Court. However, the decisions of the Constitutional Court can also be agitated, as they are agitated for political parties, so that they can respond in good time. We must be open to change, which is so necessary, so that our democracy will flourish ever stronger. We had to start somewhere and we started here, but another package will follow, and it is already being presented, so that we have a better Portugal and more clear and transparent elections, which is what our citizens ultimately deserve. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u49	Mrs. Members, we have concluded the debate, in general, of the Bill No. 226 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ). We move on to the next point in our agenda, which is that of the joint assessment, also in general, of Bill No. 227 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Eighth amendment to Law No 19 / 2003 of 20 June ( Law on the Financing of Political Parties and Election Campaigns ) and third amendment to Law No 2 / 2005 of 10 January ( Law on the Organization and Operation of the Entity for Political Accounts and Financing ), 235 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Other Act No. 19 / 2003 of 20 June ( Law on the Financing of Political Parties and Election Campaigns ), eliminating the benefit of municipal property tax exemption ( IMI) for political parties, 240 / XIV / 1. a ( IL) — Eliminates the tax benefits of political parties and reduces the value of public subsidies ( eighth amendment to the Political Party Financing Act, Law No. 19 / 2003 of 20 June ), 241 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — The eighth amendment is made to Law No 19 / 2003 of 20 June introducing measures of fiscal justice and equal treatment, 248 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Revoks tax benefits allocated to political parties, decreases the limits of election campaign expenditure and restores limits of fund-raising revenue ( eighth amendment to Law No 19 / 2003 of 20 June ), and 259 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Reduces public funding to political parties and electoral campaigns. First of all, Mr Carneiro of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u50	H.E. Mr. President, Mr. Members: The PSD today brings to this Parliament the general debate on the proposal to amend the Law on the Financing of Political Parties and the Law on the Organization and Operation of the Entity of Accounts. I stress in our project three fundamental axes: to establish once and for all responsibility for the execution of debts and the role of the financial agent in an election campaign; to update the law on issues that improve legal certainty about the expenditure of parties or electoral campaigns, in a legal framework that suffers from serious shortcomings; and to extend support to independent candidates who compete in a municipal election. On the first point, it must be said that it is up to the political parties to take full the campaign expenditure they have authorized. It is not possible to continue with this situation where someone spends on behalf of a political party, without its authorization, and at the end of the day it is the party that can be charged exclusively the payment of the expenditure, only because its tax identification number has been misused. It would be the same as someone who appropriates to our credit card, spends their limit and, at the end of the day, we have to be paying. This is the time to clarify this matter. For the sake of the certainty and responsibility of each one, but within his or her responsibility! It should be noted, however, that our proposal does not intend to abandon the financial agent to its fate, on the contrary, what we are presenting today is the commitment between the parties and the financial agents that the expenses that the first to authorize will always be, only by them, not by the representatives. Secondly, it is necessary to clarify, after all, the way in which the law can be met with regard to the drafting of the electoral campaign budget, proposing an innovative standard which limits the spending of the parties on outdoors. We want to introduce greater certainty about the balances of political parties and the accounting rules that may apply to them. We also want to make it clear that certain provisions of the law already in force today must be scrupulously complied with by any public good faith authority, eliminating the temptation for the discretionary interpretation of the law to which the legislator has not supported in the past or in the present. We also want to make it clear that whatever type of candidacy in elections, there can be no admission of election campaign profits at the expense of public money. Thirdly, we have introduced additional and fair support for the candidatures of the independents in autarchic elections. They are support that is not intended for parties but for the candidatures of independents and that meet their specificities. In short, these are changes that benefit the transparency, responsibility and elimination of gaps in the current law. We understand that parties are structural elements of the democratic system, so the rules applicable to them must be clear and effective. The PSD calls on this House to adopt, in general, the draft law that we now present and reaffirm our willingness to, together with the other parties, introduce, in the specialty, the necessary improvements. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u51	Mr Cecilia Meireles spoke for the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u52	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS submits here a proposal which has already been presented throughout various legislatures and in several budgets. It is not a revolution in relation to the party financing system, which results in much debated legislation and whose amendments have not always gone well here in Parliament, we are only proposing a surgical amendment, which has to do with the exemption of IMI, which is currently enshrined in the Law on the Financing of the Parties for real estate that are affected by the parties' activities. We took into account that in January 2019, the parties presented a total value of EUR 50 million of real estate to the Political Accounts and Financing Entity, most of which are exempt from IMI. In 2012 this value was EUR 20 million, so we are talking about a duplication of the value of buildings. at a time when tax revenue is absolutely record in Portugal, in the same way that tax burden is also record, it seems to us of justice to end this exemption so that the parties can share the tax burden with the citizens. What the PSD here proposes is complex and leads us to a question that I absolutely think is central and to which I would like to hear the PSD answer, which is the question of knowing who binds a party. Is what is being questioned: can a party be held accountable for debts that have not been incurred by you? I think the obvious answer is no, but the question that the PSD is formulating is different and whether a party can be held responsible for debts incurred by its local and district leaders, in each application, i.e. if a party can be bound not by its national leadership but by its local officials. I believe that this is beyond the question of party financing, but it is rather an issue of the internal functioning of the parties, which are essential parts of democracy. Therefore, I would like to see if what the PSD is proposing is that only the national leadership can bind the parties.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u53	For an intervention on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u54	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The proposal that the Left Block brings today to this plenary aims only to equate political parties with other entities of our social and Community activity and therefore to eliminate the exemption from IMI. We do not consider that the argumentary is related to the tax burden, in fact, it seems to me to be a counterproductive argument that is presented by the CDS, which says that the tax burden is high and therefore intends to increase it, with the end of the exemption of IMI and IMT (municipal tax on expensive transmissions of buildings) to political parties. We do not argue with this, we think that the right and correct argument is that of equal treatment and, therefore, from our point of view, of a benefit that should not exist. We already realize, for the news that goes out in the media, that the PS / PSD or PSD / PS union is cementing and, therefore, there is already a veto announced by these parties to proposals that aim to reduce the tax benefits of political parties or support for election candidatures and campaigns. We therefore know that the system is working to protect the system itself and that the vote on these various initiatives will demonstrate to the country how the central block closes in this context.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u55	That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u56	Now, I must say that when I hear a Member in particular in this House of the Republic repeatedly shout against the system, with great performance for YouTube, for social networks, being against the system and, having discussed the financing of party activity, electoral campaigns, basically one of the central points of this system, I sought, looked for, and I did not see a single initiative, nor a single proposal by Mr André Ventura, of the Arrival. Therefore, for PS and PSD, everything is fine with regard to party financing and should not be moved into the money given for election campaigns, it should not be moved into the tax benefits of political parties. And, as far as it comes, apparently, everything's fine with this system, because when the system touches you in your pocket, it doesn't say anything. Well, it reminds you of that old conversation about vital subsidies. It was very against, very against, so against, even so against that it even invited one of the former politicians who received vital subsidies to spokespersons.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u57	He's gone!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u58	Once again it is seen as 'the king goes naked' and that Mr Ventura speaks both against the system, and then when it is really to move in the political-party system, zero, no move, no play! Let it be quiet, it's so good! That's the message that arrives. from the Left Block, we believe that there should be changes both in the financing of electoral campaigns and in the tax benefits given to political parties. We make proposals in this regard and we believe that it is of the most fundamental justice that they deserve a discussion in the specialty, in which we have a willingness to discuss with all the banks in that regard. Let us hope that the PS / PSD central block and arrive, its cruising to the right, will not veto these amendments. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u59	You have the floor now, yes, to present your bill, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u60	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: A poster from our election campaign in October said « A member of the Liberal Initiative makes all the difference». I don't want to talk about my own cause, but it's just to illustrate what I'm saying. Only five months ago, I was in this same place defending the end of tax exemptions and the reduction of party subsidies — as I will be defending today. At that time, I was alone. Today, there are five other proposals. So that poster was true. It was real and cheap. The Liberal Initiative campaign illustrates how an effective campaign can be carried out with few resources, because the need to sharpen the genius. Just five months ago, I said left-wing parties love taxes a lot. They like taxes, except if they have to pay because they do not actually pay them: no stamp tax, no successive tax, no IMI, no IMT, no car tax, no VAT (tax on value added), not even if they are selling EP ( Permanent Entry) for the Front Party. Only five months ago, no one raised the issue of funding and campaign grants, tens of millions of euros that cost, inequality between parties that perpetuate, the waste they stimulate, or the environmental impact they have. All this without reducing abstention, without increasing the clarification of the Portuguese or without renewing the political class. We accept that democracy has costs and that dependence on private funding needs to be avoided. That is why we maintain the grants, the limits on individual donor funding and the exclusion of business financiers. But especially in times of difficulties for so many Portuguese people, we must say without reservation that democracy does not need so many costs. And we say more: any party that intends to manage the public thing, that is, the money of the other Portuguese, should give the example of restraint and, now, of imagination of being able to do more with less, of relying more on the commitment and effort of its individual supporters and less on the state. After only five months, we again propose the end of tax exemptions for political parties and the reduction of public subsidies. I repeat what he said at the time: we do it not by populism, but by decency. And for the conviction that it is the best for democracy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u61	To present the draft law of the NAP, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u62	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : No one has doubts about the role played by political parties in democratic societies. No one has any doubt that if we want a democracy in which parties have equal opportunities and are not dependent on lobby financing, it is necessary to ensure by law that all parties have the right to a minimum economic-financial footing indispensable to the effectiveness of their action and are subject to private funding limits. The NAP recognises that the choice taken in our legal system in terms of funding for parties and electoral campaigns is that of predominantly public funding. The objective of this option is to eliminate any suspicion factors about public life, moving away from party life actions that potentiate situations of corruption and undue influence on political decisions, but also to create conditions of equity in public action by the various political forces. This does not mean that you agree with excessive expenses in the current life of the parties or in election campaigns. The key to the success of this form of financing lies in reasonableness, always taking into account the economic and social conditions of the country itself. If it is true that the law must not fail to ensure that the parties have sufficient financial resources for the performance of their activities and the pursuit of the purposes for which they were created, among them to compete for the formation of the popular will and for the organisation of political power, ensuring equal opportunities, it is also true that such funding cannot be more than necessary for the strict performance of those functions. There is no doubt, too, that if the parties stay in a ivory tower and continue to relate to the citizens in a logic of the « us» against « them », they will open the doors to their disbelief and put our democracy at risk. This risk is at stake and, to confirm it, it is enough to look at the data of the last Eurobarometer, which tells us that 75% of the Portuguese do not trust the political parties. That is why, in the context of a health, social and economic crisis, political parties cannot be put aside for sacrifices — to do so would give a wrong signal to citizens and food even more populism. It is not understood that political parties are exempt from IMI, when most families that had gross income breaks due to COVID-19 had to pay their IMI, with great sacrifice last May, without even having the right to postpone the deadline or to reduce the tax. It is not understood that in December each of the candidates for the forthcoming presidential elections will be allowed to spend more than EUR 4 million on the campaign and that, at the same time, it is said that, due to the lack of money in the State budget, workers placed in the successive Layoff regime must have a cut in 12 % salary in December. The NAP proposal gives Parliament the opportunity to show that the parties do not see themselves as privileged and that they are not excluded from the sacrifices to deal with the crises. We propose that the exemptions from IMI and other taxes which are given today to the parties, which fall by 50 % of the limits of election campaign expenditure, be repealed and that the limits of the revenue for raising funds which existed until 2018 be restored. Finally, we point out that the NAP presented a draft resolution which was rejected and aimed at ensuring that the Entity for Political Accounts and Financing had the human resources necessary for the performance of its activities. The money was entered in last year's budget, remained in this year's budget, but cannot be implemented because it has already spent 1 year and 7 months and the government has not issued the necessary port to ensure this increase in staff, which is regrettable and which at no cost contributes to the existence of an adequate system for monitoring the accounts of the parties that ensure transparency of private financing and compliance with the corresponding limits. We hope that in the Committee on Budgets and Finance, the parties will have the political will needed to solve this problem that the NAP has denounced. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u63	To present the PCP Parliamentary Group Bill, Mr António Filipe has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u64	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The draft law presented by the CFP in this legislative process takes up a fundamental issue concerning the financing of the parties, with which the CFP has been discussed over the years. We understand that parties should not live at the expense of taxpayers. It does not make sense that there are parties that depend on more than 90 % of their funding for public grants. in this sense, the proposal that we resume here, and which is not new, is that there is a very significant reduction of public subsidies to political parties. That being said, it should be noted that this matter of party financing has been the cause of the greatest demagogy and populism in the way it is debated, including, as is dealt with by our media system. It is therefore important to undo a few myths about this matter. It is not worth saying that the parties are essential to democracy, we are saying that many people have died in Portugal so that political parties could have their legal existence and then, at the same time, treat the parties as if they were gangs of criminals and assume a presumption of delinquency in relation to their accounting, when there is no public or private entity that has a surveillance regime as tight to its financing as that of the political parties. I should like to draw attention to an entity which is subject to a stricter supervision regime in relation to its financing and expenditure. Moreover, a surveillance regime which in the past has even been persecuted in relation to political parties. So this needs to be taken into account. Then, when the question arises exclusively in terms of tax benefits, I also ask: which are the non-profit entities or, even, companies that have a tax regime that is more unfavourable than what do political parties have? In other words, if we want to look seriously at the tax regime of political parties, we will look at the tax regime of the various entities as a whole, and we will see whether a political party which obviously has no profitable purpose has a tax regime more favourable than, for example, an IPSS (particular institution of social solidarity). You don't! You don't! Therefore, it is good that there is also some seriousness in the way these issues are addressed. We understand that the PSD raises relevant practical questions and that it is worth addressing in this regard, and I have seen no one answer them here, in fact. Questions related to how parties relate to the discretion of the Public Administration. It is because one thing is that we have laws that must be strictly complied with and strictly demanded of political parties, but political parties also have the right to demand rigour by the Public Administration. People who in political parties deal with their accounts cannot be subject to the sharing of finance One thing is understood, the distribution of finance B understands another, or one of the members in the Accounts Entity understands one thing, other members understand another and the parties have no way of governing themselves in the midst of this administrative taboo. There must also be rigour in all aspects, rigor with the parties and rigor for the implementation of the law on political parties by the Public Administration and all entities. We understand, therefore, that there are issues that are relevant and that the practical aspects that the PSD places in its bill certainly deserve a discussion in the specialty. Obviously, for us - and I shall finish, Mr President - there is a fundamental issue that is not resolved and that has to do with the general concept of whether parties should depend on the financial effort of their militants and their members or whether they should depend on the State. On this issue, the PSD did not put it in its bill, but we understand that it should be put in place and that is why we introduced this bill. However, without prejudice to this general concept, which we continue to defend, we understand that there are concrete aspects that the PSD places on the practical plane that are relevant and that really deserve a discussion in the specialty. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u65	I have the floor, Mr José Luís Ferreira, of the Parliamentary Group of the Green Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u66	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, we have a set of legislative initiatives with a view to making several amendments to the Political Parties and Election Campaigns Financing Act. in this context, proposals are under discussion that affect a significant set of rules on the subject, a diverse universe of proposals, in particular the need to strengthen the mechanisms of control and accountability for the expenditure of electoral campaigns to reduce public funding to political parties and electoral campaigns, and also to impose limits on revenue at the level of fund raising. On these matters, I would like to say that, as is public, the Greens have always defended a principle that continues to be enshrined in our legislative architecture and that it is absolutely essential for us. We are talking about the principle of establishing a semi-public funding regime for both parties and electoral campaigns. In our view, this principle is a fundamental instrument in terms of strengthening the indispensable guarantee of the separation and independence of political power from economic power, but also in order to avoid situations that might lead to a lack of transparency and even corruption. This is, in our view, a central element in ensuring the subordination of economic power to political power. That is why the Greens have always opposed the possibility of financing political parties by companies, whose prohibition ended up being enshrined in the law, also with the favourable vote of the Greens, even though this ban has come, in our view, later than what would be desirable. In view of the set of proposals we are discussing today, it seems sensible to us, for example, to introduce mechanisms of greater control and accountability for expenditure on electoral campaigns, as well as to reduce public funding to political parties and electoral campaigns, yet ensuring the principle that enshrines the semi-public nature of funding. Although it seems reasonable to us to reduce the public funding of the parties and the electoral campaigns by reducing the subsidy, we do not understand the real reasons for the proposals that seek to impose limits on the allocation of funds, because strictly imposing limits on revenue from fund raising is to limit the party's own activity. And for this petition, the Greens, of course, do not give. In fact, as long as the raising of funds complies with the legal rules and meets the criteria of transparency and supervision, we see no reason to set limits. We even consider it meaningless to limit or establish ceilings for the raising of funds by political parties, because, as I said before, this would also limit the activity of political parties.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u67	You have the floor, for an intervention, Mrs.Cristina Rodrigues did not register.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u68	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There are several initiatives under discussion today that amend the Political Party Financing Act. All of them are going to reduce this funding, one more less, but we generally agree with all of them. In fact, political parties should have no more benefits than taxpayers who are basically financing them. So we can only refer to a tremendous injustice that a taxpayer, in buying his home, family address, has to pay IMT and subsequently IMI and that, with the money of his taxes, finance the activity of political parties who, in buying a property to carry out his activity, are exempt from these same taxes. in the same way, we agree that it is important to reduce the value of the campaign subsidy. Will it be acceptable to spend eight and a half million euros of taxpayers' money on a campaign, as happened in the legislation in 2015? It should be stressed that we are in favour of the financing of political parties. We consider this fundamental for the realization of democracy, but that does not mean that this funding should not have limits. It must have limits and be reasonable, so there is an urgent need for discussion and reflection on the limits to subsidies and benefits allocated to political parties.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u69	You have the floor, Mr Ventura, for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u70	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: To reassure the Left Block, before anything else, the Arrival will enable all proposals aimed at ending with tax privileges of the parties. But I understand this tendency of the Left Block to talk about arriving, whenever polls come out. [[BE's laughs.]] Today, the candidate for the Left Block has half my voting intentions for the presidential elections. And I understand that. [[Christos from BE Pedro Filipe Soares.]] Mr Pedro Filipe Soares recently finished his speech by saying: "It reminds me of a party that invited me I don't know who, who had grants...". It's true! It also reminds me of another party, which was so against real estate speculation—so much! — who invited to the councillor someone who had a house in Christie ’ s reminds me of a party that was so against fraud that he had even different dwellings in Parliament. It reminds me of so many things, so many that I'm not going to say them all here, so that the Block will have a chance to say any more nonsense.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u71	Mr Jorge Lacão, from the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u72	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is undoubtedly an abundant dose of demagogy that is being served here and now. For a long time, a cry was heard denouncing the dangers of the confusion between the pursuit of public interest and the dependence of private interests, arising from political financing by anonymous donors and the business world. Due to the criticism, it was decided to establish a regime supported in the relevance of public funding, clearly assuming the social cost of democracy. This option was widely recognized as the most appropriate to ensure, with transparency, the autonomy of the political sphere vis-à-vis the other spheres of influence, economic and financial matters are still being guaranteed. Therefore, what makes no sense now is to recognize the importance of public grant in support of political activity and at the same time to defend proposals so reductive that they would again render it unviable to regulate the action of political parties in society other than through funding, without adequate transparency. These more radical proposals come, as might be expected, from the parties that do not have territorial roots and representative coverage that require them, at national level, the same extended work of others in connection with society and its institutions. On the other hand, the position of those who, recognizing the public interest in the tax benefits for political parties, in this respect equivalent to a myriad of civil society entities—mutualities, social solidarity, religious confessions, foundations, but also professional or trade union associations— does not, however, call into question the good foundation of this orientation, but only attacks the exemptions on real estate. It is clear that such a position is not due to a general criterion of relative justice and more appears as an expression of adjustment before those parties who, over time, have known how to build and watch for a relevant asset to put it to the service of their political activity. Political parties, like everything else that binds to human activity, are not eternal, but, while they last and have popular support, they are institutions that deserve specific protection, because in them lies the fundamental pillar of pluralist and representative democracy, an essential condition of the freedom of the people and of the general progress of society. A final word on the PSD bill : in view of the essential contained in it, to make the financial agents more consistently responsible for the expenditure of the election campaigns, we will be in charge of it - with the attention that the issue deserves, however, with the concern not to relieve, without more, the parties' accounts of the funding that effectively benefits them in the efforts of the electoral campaigns.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u73	Thank you very much, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u74	In conclusion, Mr President, in order to say exactly what time allows me the most, giving, therefore, those who may have an interest in this, in the opinion on all the matters in question, in detail drawn up in committee. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u75	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares of the Left Block has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u76	Mr President, Mr André Ventura, we are discussing the financing of political parties. He doesn't have a single proposal. Is it because Mr. President has vetoed the initiative of arriving or why does he think it's all right?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u77	Is that a question? Oh, my God! They're out of their minds!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u78	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, we were at the end of the speeches and therefore I do not know whether Mr André Ventura wants to sign up. It is because we were making the reverse way of those parties that put forward proposals, until the end of the debate. Although you have not made proposals, you have the right to intervene if you wish. It's good to be right now.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u79	I want to, yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u80	You then have the floor, Mr André Ventura.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u81	Mr President, I would like to thank the Left Block for this opportunity which gives me an opportunity to make an intervention. Mr. Pedro Filipe Soares, I made it clear more than since there is any party that has fought against all the privileges of the parties in Portugal is the Arrival. Now, ask me another question, which I answer. [[Christos from BE Pedro Filipe Soares.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u82	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u83	Mr President, we know — and now we have clearly come to know — that he speaks, speaks, speaks, but to do is to keep quiet, he does nothing! [[Congratulations from BE and PS Members.]] When we get to the concrete matter, he says: "Let it be, don't move. Don't move in our little diner! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Mr. Deputies, your mask has fallen! His mask's gone! [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u84	To close the debate, Mr. Hugo Carneiro, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u85	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I thank all the questions that have been raised and which, in general, play on fundamental points. One of the first points I would like to mention is that we cannot actually do this debate with demagogy. We cannot say that the parties cannot have public funding and that we then defend transparency and that we do not want the parties to enter into money bags of the entrepreneurs of this country.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u86	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u87	The PSD has a very clear position: we defend absolute transparency about how parties are financed.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u88	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u89	Therefore, public funding here is of fundamental importance. But let me also tell you that we have not come here to propose an increase in public subsidies to the parties. What we do, as has already been said, is to clarify standards and shortcomings that the Law has and that lacks clarification. We want to know, for example, whether there are debts incurred on behalf of the parties, but for people who do not have permission, who pays at the end. That's what we want to know.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u90	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u91	In our private management, in the management of our personal lives, we certainly do not authorize others to use our credit card and, at the end of the day, as we have to pay, we will take care of how we manage our money. What we have come to propose is exactly the same: that parties can truly take care of the way their money is managed. Mrs Cecilia Meireles raised a very relevant question which she would like to clarify and which has to do with the role of the financial agents. Our project is very clear on this matter, there is no doubt about it. If a political party authorizes a budget, the financial agent may be quiet, because, up to the amount of that budget authorized by the parties, it does not have to fear that, at the end of the day, it may be called upon to pay the debts that it has to pay for the election campaign. Therefore, our clarification helps the parties to know who they are paying, but it also helps the financial agents to know that, at the end of the day, if they meet their budget as good people, the parties will not let them fall. This is a very relevant aspect and I would like to highlight. We can say that there is a problem related to tax benefits or public subsidies, but, as I said, on the one hand, we argue that most of the parties' funding, in addition to transparency, should be public, and on the other hand, we have not come to bring an increase of benefits in our projects that the Law, today, no longer contains. However, we want to eliminate, as has also been said, such discretion which sometimes public authorities use in the decisions they make in the application of this Law. Finally, I would like to conclude by saying that we cannot lack courage to face this discussion and we cannot use demagogy in this discussion. If we were to start Portuguese democracy today, we could put everything at stake, because we would be building a new model. That's not what we're discussing today! On the other hand, I would also like to tell you that the Social Democratic Party has openness and availability for, in the field of specialty, we can deepen, improve...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u92	I ask you to finish, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u93	I will finish, Mr. President. As I said, we have an opening in the field of expertise to be able to deepen and improve our project. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u94	We have thus reached the end of the fifth item on the agenda. We move on to the sixth point, which consists of the general discussion of Bill 457 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Fourth amendment to the Legal Regime of Parliamentary Investigations, approved by Law No 5 / 93 of 1 March, introducing the mandatory participation of civil society persons in parliamentary committees of inquiry, 458 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Extends the Parliamentary Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Deputies and, in its place, establishes the Council for the Transparency and Status of Deputies, making the tenth amendment to the Statute of Deputies adopted by Law No 7 / 93 of 1 March and the first amendment to Law No 52 / 2019 of 31 July approving the regime for the exercise of functions by holders of political positions and high public positions, 459 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Fifth amendment to Law No 43 / 90 of 10 August ( Exercise of the Right to Petition ), 460 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Third amendment to Law No 43 / 2006 of 25 August on the monitoring, assessment and delivery by the Assembly of the Republic in the process of the construction of the European Union, together with Draft Resolution No 543 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — First amendment to the Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic No 210 / 2019 of 20 September approving the Code of Conduct of Deputies to the Assembly of the Republic and generally with Bill No 466 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Strengthens the rights of participation in the legislative initiatives of citizens by amending Law No 17 / 2003 of 4 June 2003. You have the floor to present the legislative initiatives of the PSD, Mrs Catarina Rocha Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u95	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we start the debate on a subject that is of greatest relevance to Portuguese democracy and for which the PSD hopes to be able to have a high sense of responsibility on the part of all, the debate of initiatives that are part of the so impertent reform of our political system. Clearly, reform of the political system does not run out of these initiatives. However, this is a first impulse, an impulse that has long been necessary, because, despite this being a recurring theme, there has been little courage to propose effective changes. In fact, in this House we are regularly proposing and approving changes that apply to others. this time, the PSD believes that we should begin by approving changes that apply to ourselves, in Parliament, the seat, par excellence, of democracy. We therefore propose relevant amendments to the functioning of this Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, our first initiative is to reform the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members, since, as we all well know, in matters of impediments and incompatibilities, Members are judging themselves and the truth is that, although it is legitimate, it is! — the endogamy in this way raises questions which are avoidable.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u96	What? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u97	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have nothing to hide. We therefore propose the end of this Commission and the establishment of a Member's transparency and status council. This council will operate in the Assembly of the Republic with the same powers, but its constitution will be made mostly by people who are not Members or were in the previous Parliament, yet the President of the Council is a personality of recognized merit and not a member in office. Both the President of the Council and his non-deputies will be elected by legislature, with two consecutive mandates. This is a simple but extremely important amendment. Citizens in general are very aware of the scope of this reform. We hope you and the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen understand that too.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u98	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u99	We don't understand anything else!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u100	The second reform we propose concerns parliamentary committees of inquiry, which are well known to all. Let us be honest: the committees of inquiry in various situations, especially when involving people from the biased environment, tend to become arenas of political combat, attacks and defenses, sometimes little dignified, diverting themselves from essential and losing objectivity. It is proposed that the committees of inquiry should, in addition to the Members of the various parliamentary groups, incorporate non-deputies with all the powers of the less-voting Members, in addition to the Members of the various parliamentary groups. This is something that has already happened in committees of inquiry, such as that of Camarate, where the representatives of the victims' families participated. We want to credible, dignify and make real use of parliamentary committees of inquiry. We also propose two specific amendments, the first being in the law that regulates and guarantees the exercise of the right to petition. Since the petition is a form of direct democracy that we consider essential, the fact is that since 1993 the minimum number of subscribers for the petition to be appreciated in plenary is not changed. [[Protests from PS Santinho Pacheco.]] While, at that time, signatures were collected in person and on paper, the process is now very facilitated by being digitally, so it is proposed that the number of signatures be raised so that a petition can be discussed in plenary. At the same time, a new figure is introduced: the debate in the respective Committee on Petitions with more than 5000 signatures and less than 15 000. This amendment aims to dignify petitions that should be effectively assessed in plenary. Finally, we also propose an amendment which falls within the framework of the European Union building process. Despite the fact that this process is being monitored by the Assembly of the Republic, we have an excessive number of plenarys for this purpose, when we have a European Committee, which really deals with this process and accompanies it - in particular on current matters, avoiding unnecessary duplication. It is therefore proposed to hold two debates on these matters in plenary, with the mandatory presence of the Prime Minister, and the other debates in committee. These are our proposals. We therefore intend to start a path of reform in the political system, starting with ourselves, that is, starting by setting an example, by dignifying our work, the work of this House. I believe that we all share the desire that the Portuguese might better understand the work we have done as their representatives. We will only be able to do so by increasing transparency and building credibility. It is the quality of our democracy that is at stake and that has no price. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u101	Mrs Pedro Filipe Soares, Member of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, signed up to request clarifications. To that end, you have the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u102	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Rocha Ferreira, I note that the PSD has as its introduction to this debate the anemic state, the mood, the perspective that its President has on the Assembly of the Republic and on the mandate of the Member. He says, Rui Rio, the following: « I have no particular enthusiasm to be a Member. I don't. I was 10 years old, at a time when Parliament had a qualitative level lower than it had before, but which was still much higher than it has today. Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” I could start with an evil, which I will not do to you, which was to ask you if you think that Mrs Deputy, the Members. Members and the other Members of the PSD today have a very low level of quality than they had in the past.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u103	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u104	That's why the PSD leader thinks so.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u105	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u106	By now, I must say that I have already seen several PSD leaders debate and about him, in particular, he was even able to follow his reasoning, but that does not make me have a widespread prejudice for all Members and for all Members and, above all, for the quality of our democracy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u107	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u108	But I believe that this thought explains to us the narrative that these proposals, and others, bring to the thought about the activity of the Assembly. For example, when Rui Rio says that he is full of 15-year debates, he is tired, you understand, of the mediocrity of his participation in them. It's the only conclusion we can draw.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u109	What a taste!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u110	It is that they do not, in fact, give as a consequence a further value of their arguments. Well, but that of the two, one: or it's an actor's problem or argument. It is not the debate, because that is one of the most valuables of democracy. What the PSD now brings as a proposal is a devaluation of Parliament and, in itself, a devaluation of democracy,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u111	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u112	... because it devalues elected in its responsibilities and obligations and, above all, devalues voters, because it considers that they are not up to the democracy we have. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u113	Well, we have a totally different view. We believe that each and every one who is sitting in this Parliament, regardless of whether we like that Member or that Member, has the right to be here and the merit of being here because they have won votes for this. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u114	And we respect both those Members and the electors who elected them. The question I wanted to ask you, which I believe is the most direct one, is whether the PSD respects the democracy we have and the citizens and citizens of our country who make up it. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u115	In reply, Mrs Catarina Rocha Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u116	Mr President, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, I thank you for your questions and it is because the PSD respects the democracy and the quality of democracy that we are discussing.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u117	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u118	I think it is fantastic that, in the previous debate, you have pointed out your finger to arrive because you have no proposals and now that these are proposals on the functioning of the Assembly of the Republic, of our Parliament, the Left Block has not submitted any! [[PSD applause.]] And more: the honourable Member is fighting against evidence, because I point out to him the moon and the honourable Member is talking about my finger, instead of looking at the moon. There is a climate of distrust over what we have decided in Parliament. I'm not saying it's fair or not, but there's this mistrust. Do you accept this evidence or not? It is because, if you do not accept this evidence, you are discussing reality and what the Portuguese think. And or we will solve this in this House — I will solve this, Mr President, and the whole Parliament will solve this — or we will not go anywhere!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u119	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u120	The noblest thing we can do is change our own transparency. It is because, Mr President, we are not here representing ourselves. [[Protests from BE Pedro Filipe Soares.]] We are not even here representing the Members. We're representing the citizens, the Portuguese, the people... [[PSD applause.]] ...and there can be no problem having the people we represent here with us! Briefly, Mr. Deputies, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have two options: or we keep everything as it is, like some of you. Members want, and everything is the same, or other Members, such as those on the PSD bench, to propose amendments that aim to increase the quality of our democracy, the credibility of our democracy and transparency in this Parliament. If the gentlemen. You don't want that, you have to explain it to the Portuguese. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u121	For an intervention, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u122	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Strange times in which the greatest party in the opposition, who should want to strengthen the mechanisms for hearing and monitoring government action, is precisely the party that drives changes to parliamentary work that restrict the rights of participation of the opposition forces, removes the citizens from Parliament and still gives the government a real kit free of hands!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u123	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u124	These proposals alone would be serious, particularly as they come from the largest party in the opposition, but even more serious is the fact that this proposal comes in a time of health crisis and the limitation of fundamental rights, which called for a strengthening of the mechanisms for hearing and monitoring the government, a collaborative participation of all political forces and not the emptying of its action, as the Social Democratic Party proposes today. The PSD proposes the end of the 15-year debates and that the arrivals of the Prime Minister to Parliament be drastically reduced on the eve of the meetings of the European Council, two mechanisms introduced by the Socialist Party's proposal and which have increased the political control of the Government. These mechanisms marked the total rupture with the times of Cavaquism, in which the bad practices of hindering Parliament's action were customary. It was good that the Socialist Party had historical memory and respected its legacy in defending the rights of the opposition, rejecting the proposals of the Democratic Social Party in this debate. The PSD also wants the Transparency Committee to be extinguished and replaced by a non-deputies council. Madam Member, we have listened to your justifications, but we have no illusions: the vast majority of the members who have been elected by the prosecutors are still ex-political.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u125	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u126	Basically, the Social Democratic Party tells us, in this case, that everything needs to be changed so that everything will be the same. For the NAP, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members has, in fact, many problems and changes need to be made, but this proposal from the PSD will not bring us an independent assessment of compliance with the Statute of Members. at a time when the Transparency Entity is about to be set up, it would have been better to see the Social Democratic Party express its concern with the delay in the establishment of this Entity, instead of seeing this proposal, which brings us nothing again. It is clear, therefore, to us, that the difficulty they have in dealing with a more plural and participatory assembly, which does not run out in a central coalition. Finally, as if the remaining proposals were not healthy in democracy, the PSD also proposes that the possibility of discussion of petitions in plenary should be limited, thereby reducing the dignity that should be accorded to citizen participation. As the honourable Member has well said, we represent the people, represent the citizens, represent the people, do not represent ourselves. To deny the possibility of bringing petitions to this House is to deny what in democracy is more than to salute: that the voice of the citizens should reach this plenary. This proposal not only contradicts the advances and simplifications introduced into the past legislation, signed and approved by some of the current PSD Members, as Parliament shuts down the participation of civil society. The NAP presents itself to this debate with a diametrically opposite view to that of the PSD. unlike the PSD, which wants to close Parliament to citizenship, the NAP wants to combat the deficit of public participation in public life and strengthen participatory democracy. When, in time of election, we all hear that we want to fight abstention, this intention cannot be merely proclamational, it must be effective on the day-to-day part of this Parliament, thus enhancing all the tools that approach people of its House of Democracy and not the other way around. For this reason, we not only do not follow the proposals of the Social Democratic Party as we propose that the minimum number of subscribers of citizens' legislative initiatives be reduced and that the subjects which might be the subject of these initiatives be extended. What is the meaning of a regime which has very demanding requirements and which keeps the whole legislative process in the hands of Parliament, but does not allow citizens to propose a citizen legislative initiative on any matter of the State, regardless of the scope of their competences, or which unduly impedes their participation in public life? This mechanism has had very positive results and we hope that the other political forces will accompany us, without prejudice to the fact that, in the field of expertise, we can change or refine those that may be some concerns expressed by the remaining political forces.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u127	Mr Jorge Lacão of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u128	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: when Mr Rui Rio heard about the urgency of parliamentary reforms, which had not yet been settled before, he came to my mind the figure of Counsellor Gama Torres, friend of Alipio Abranhos and count of the same name, in his alertness to the evils of his time, that he had "terrible issues: prostitution, poverty and ultra-montanism", but without adding, let us know, a bad thing for the nation of Deputies to decide on the conditions for the exercise of their parliamentary mandates. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u129	of what was not remembered at the time the advisor Gama Torres should now remember Dr. Rui Rio, say that with the Olympic indifference, I don't know if I don't know, because of the historical meaning of the fights for freedom and democracy that we are all taxarians today. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is not wrong to remember the glorious English Revolution and the Bill of Rights to the Constitution of Philadelphia, Montesquieu and the separation of powers to 1. the Portuguese Liberal Constitution, from the Republican Constitution to the Constitution in force. How has it not been realized that at no time, in the past and in the present, parliaments have been accepted to rely on the internal criteria for the application of their status as interpreters that are strange to them?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u130	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u131	Only with a non-guardian parliament guarantees the primacy of popular sovereignty, with elected Members freely exercising their mandates, in a framework of rights and duties that they are responsible for and which, therefore, does not exempt them from responding, being the case, for any unlawful practice. However, on the day when the Assembly of the Republic admitted that Members were unfit to observe their rules of conduct internally, Parliament, unfortunately, resigned to the essential value of the confidence that citizens had received to represent them with dignity. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is true that a parliament with plural representation openly expresses the differences that society itself composes and lives in the pursuit of distinct political projects, some aiming to break constitutional consensus. It is true that in this diversity we often find manifestations of excess and disagreement, one more reason to be alert against threats to the integrity of representative institutions these disruptive forms of instrumentalized populism around leadership ambitions that, to assert themselves, often need to sow the discredit around them to open up space to the authoritarian promotion of their standards of conduct. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Well, ladies and gentlemen. Members, under the cover of a wise council, what the PSD is defending today is precisely an attempt to condition the freedom of Parliament's criteria by imposing standards and heterons of conduct to Members with their own democratic legitimacy. Its message cannot be ignored: in the PSD's understanding, the 230 tribunes of the people that make up the Assembly of the Republic have no credibility as a whole to generate responses that ensure the ethical standards of the function and, as such, need to be protected by an external council composed of so-called personalities of recognized merit and suitability, people forming a prolix collective to illuminate the good conduct of Members, people to install comfortably with remuneration and aid of cost and travel allowances and, of course, people who would not have to account for their own ethical criteria. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Indeed, there are terrible issues only at the height of the intellectual scope of the Gama Torres advisors of this time, committed to the ultra-mountain purpose of transposing Parliament into a truffle of the system. But what a republican and democratic parliament cannot admit is precisely the invasion of its democratic authority and its representative legitimacy, undelegable and alienable in Council figures, figures and figures. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The many stories that history is made up there remind us of the platonic ambitions of establishing the caste of the wise to underdetermine the conduct of the rulers in dictatorial and totalitarian models and disasters that affect their societies. We have already had experience in the time of respect and mediocrity, in the time of a so-called 'national' assembly made up of submissive, venerative and bound by Mr. Professor. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u132	I believe, therefore, that we are talking about this liberal drift of the PSD that, I want to believe, when it falls into itself, it will regret itself. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I have a word to say to the pilgrim that he intends to introduce into the composition of the committees of inquiry, to the extent necessary, civil society groups. It should be noted that we are not talking about candidates for the development of truth, nor about technicians to advise, nor about experts or experts to speak out in relation to the subjects in question, but about groups to do the redundancy, the work that Members are responsible for doing. It was as if in the structure of the courts, alongside the judges and with the prerogative of these, they began to sit down groups of people to compete with them in the orientation of the trials and the hearings of judgment. And there would be the independence of the courts by water below, because it would be this disproposition that the PSD proposes us to adopt, by confusing, indeed, certain acceptable modalities of procedural participation, in the name of legitimate interests of part, with a potentially lobbyist intrusion in the defence of the public interest. [[P.S.'s applause.]] However, it is precisely in the face of pressure groups that must raise the principles of transparency and independence of the institutions. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u133	These silky corners of populism, therefore, need to be eradicated at birth, without concessions to fantasies, in which naive souls—is it not, Mrs Catarina Rocha Ferreira? — only too late, sometimes, if you notice these same fantasies, but too late is always too late. That is not the case today! [[PS applause, stand up.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u134	Mr José Manuel Pureza, from the Left Block, has the floor to ask for clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u135	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Jorge Lacão, it is clear that the extreme right must not move, nor much less work to make its flags go away. Last week, we discussed here a CDS proposal which was intended to increase penalties as a way of supposedly respecting the police. Now, we are here to debate PSD proposals that sit in the discussion of the reduction of Parliament in favour of luminaires, supposedly independent—let us know why! Is that what you're talking about? — to monitor the transparency of Members and to guide the committees of inquiry.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u136	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u137	Projects speak for themselves: - the number of Members in parliamentary committees of inquiry is reduced and - 5 to 10 people are included of this extraordinary thing that is civil society; - the Transparency Committee is put out and - a Council of Transparency is created, chaired by, I quote again, "a personality of recognized merit" and composed of a majority of non-deputies who, I quote again, are "citizens of recognised suitability". I would like to express here a total and sincere solidarity with the Members and the Members. Members of the PSD, who will certainly feel, and with all justice, offended by being looked upon by your own party as unworthy of being personalities of recognized merit, unworthy of being citizens of recognized suitability. [[Congratulations from BE and PS Members.]] PSD invokes this immaculate myth of civil society as a regenerating of rot and mediocrity. But there is a trick in this: who in the PSD projects chooses or indicates the pure luminaries of civil society? It is the Members or, better, it is the majority of the Members. Now pure and clean civil society is the one chosen by the «centron», if it is to say « cat hidden with the tail of the « centron» outside»! But there is one not said here, Mr Jorge Lacão, that the Left Block will not let it remain outside this debate: it is with the very spirit of disqualification of Parliament that the PSD also proposes the end of the 15-year debates with the Prime Minister. Says the PSD that it is to credible Parliament. And what do you propose? The elimination of the main instrument available to Parliament to carry out the political control of the Government. Mr. Jorge Lacão will not be long enough to see the PSD here proposing that Parliament's political control be carried out by persons of recognised merit or even subcontract Parliament's political supervisory function on the government in any PPP (public-private partnership). We'll see! The justification is simple: that the 'centre' wants to avoid at all costs to its governments the inconvenience of frequently exposing themselves to the criticisms of all here in Parliament, where it must be! So the question I want to bring to the Socialist Party is the following: will the Socialist Party give the PSD in this other part of the disqualification package of Parliament? It is true that if the Socialist Party rips the clothes against the populist proposals of the PSD for the committees of inquiry and transparency and then gives it a hand in the populist proposal of the end of the 15-year debates, it is even to say that it is a cat of the center that does not even need to hide the tail. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u138	In reply, Mr Jorge Lacão of the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u139	Mr President, Mr José Manuel Pureza, in the matter which you have put me on has left me several considerations and, to a large extent, I am perfectly in agreement with the spirit which they have chaired. Therefore, I do not need to reiterate that part of your argument, not all that I said recently from the rostrum. With regard to the way in which Parliament operates, I think Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, this question must be taken seriously. And it is certainly with all serenity and with all commitment to contribute to improving the quality of the parliamentary work that the Socialist Party presents and will appreciate all the matters in question. by saying this, Mr President, I am aware that we have to make a big distinction between what we have really been in question here today, that we have been able to put into question an incontrovertible principle of parliamentaryism and representative democracy, which is the independence of parliaments — that is something that, with its proposals, the PSD has tried to do, and we have to be very clear in rejecting this position — and the organization of concrete work, stressing again that, in fact, there are many aspects of Parliament's functioning which are not sufficiently adequate and calibrated.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u140	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u141	This is a matter in which, in openness of spirit and in constructive attitude, the PS will participate. More: the PS will work together to do what it has always done, i.e. to have a Parliament at the height of its democratic scrolls. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u142	Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor for one speech. [[At the moment, he took the presidency of Vice President Editi Estrela.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u143	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: If an extraterrestrial were to observe Portuguese politics in recent weeks, it would be excused if he did not realize that the PSD was supposed to be opposed. The PS government nationalizes companies, burys billions of euros of taxpayers, appoints an incompatible Governor of the Banco de Portugal and presents its financial officer to the Board for the Monitoring of the Information System of the Republic. All this in the face of the passiveness, or even the convivence, of the PSD, whose concern is to occupy much of this power agenda with the amendment of parliamentary rules. This is even more serious when, in the midst of some proposals that make sense, and which will deserve our favourable vote, the PSD presents other proposals that clearly diminish the power of Parliament and its ability to scrutinize the government. I am not talking about the announced intention of reducing the number of 15-year debates in Regiment, but I am talking about Bill No. 460 / XIV / 1. the, which follows the same logic and which aims to reduce to two the number of times per year that the Prime Minister comes to Parliament before a European Council. There is no point in reducing the government's scrutiny on these matters and moving away from the best practice of other democracies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u144	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u145	I shall conclude, Madam President, by speaking very quickly. Even if the PSD does not have firm positions on what should be discussed in the European Council or on the geopolitical dilemmas of the European Union, there are those who have such positions. Therefore, if the PSD does not want to participate in the debate, we are pleased to use your time and we will move from the liberal minute to half an hour. As long as the Portuguese, with their vote, do not balance the times, I appeal to Dr. Rio that does not reduce the opportunities of those who effectively want to oppose this Parliament.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u146	Mr António Filipe of the CFP Parliamentary Group speaks for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u147	Madam President, the PSD presents a set of proposals, most of which do not have our agreement. On the contrary, we have a frontal disagreement with these proposals. Perhaps he would arrange the issues of minor disagreement at the beginning of my intervention, leaving the major disagreements to the end. First of all, we want to say that we welcome the NAP bill on citizens' initiatives. We ourselves have argued from the outset that the signatures required for citizens' legislative initiatives are disproportionately high, and we therefore see this initiative with good eye. There is one issue that is not directly under discussion here, only indirectly, which has to do with the issue of prior debates on European councils, but is related to another broader issue, which is not currently under discussion, but which will be discussed next week with regard to the Rules of Procedure. We must look at the Rules of Procedure with seriousness and no phantoms. Democracy was not born in 2007, with the 15-year debates. The monthly debates, yes, were instituted in the post-cavaquism. There are many aspects of the reform of the 2007 Government Activity Control Regime, which are not being used, namely the sectoral debates with the presence of members of the Government in plenary, which have never been made because the agenda is largely captured with the 15-year debates. We are comfortable with the 15-year debates, we have nothing against them, we have not proposed your amendment, but we think that from there we even put anathemas and ghosts and discuss whether this is the best model for the operation of the Plenary is going to be a big difference. So, for our part, we have an open position on this problem. Our serious disagreement has to do with the proposals presented by the PSD, in particular with regard to the creation of such a transparency board. But it must also be said that what Mr. Jorge Lacão here said, criticizing, and well, this proposal from the Transparency Council could be used perfectly if, instead of this, we had put there the Transparency Entity that you created at the end of the past legislature, with the votes of the PS, PSD, the Left Block and the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u148	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u149	The problem is in the location. It is that, by creating an entity outside the Assembly of the Republic, of the two: or this is a mere deposit of declarations and, for that, we could arrange deposits cheaper; or it is more than that. And if that is more than what this goes in the sense proposed by the PSD and which Mr Jorge Lacão very well criticized. In fact, it doesn't make any sense! This brings to mind, Mr Deputy, an appropriate example, which is the missing chapter in the Count d’Abranchos. And it reminds me of another figure that existed in the Middle Ages, which was the advice of the king’s conscience, that is, it was understood that the king was unconscious and that there was a group of wise men who would form the king’s conscience. [[Protests by PSD Member Filipa Roseta.]] This would be a kind of conscience of the Republic, placed in Parliament, providing a minority certificate not only to the Assembly of the Republic, but above all to the mechanisms that exist for the control of incompatibilities and impediments, i.e. there is indeed law to comply, there are entities, either internally or externally, to apply the law, in relation to matters of incompatibilities and impediments, and that is what must work. Therefore, this idea of building a god of the Olympus to be the judge-moors of the Republic is an idea that does not actually make any sense in democracy. The same applies to the question of the participation of external entities in the committees of inquiry. The committees of inquiry may resort to the collaboration of outsiders to Parliament who understand very well, both as deputies and in other capacity. Mrs Catarina Rocha Ferreira said, and it is factual that representatives of the families were involved in the committees of inquiry on the accident at Comrade because the Assembly of the Republic so decided. [[PCP and PSD MP Filipa Roseta applauded.]] It is also necessary to create the obligation of the committees of inquiry to be composed of citizens who do not have their own legitimacy to join the committees of inquiry. It's a matter of legitimacy! The committees of inquiry are parliamentary committees, which participate in them are the Members, who have been elected by the people for this purpose. Therefore, there are no citizens who can exercise parliamentary functions without the democratic legitimacy that only the election can give them. in this sense, we will not follow this proposal from the PSD. Nor will we follow the limitations on the exercise of the right to petition. It seems to us that it is not in this sense that things should evolve. The exercise of the right to petition has evolved very positively in recent years and we believe that there should be no retrogression in this matter. Therefore, we will not support the PSD proposal. It seems to us that the regime, as it is, should remain essentially and that we should not introduce restrictions on the exercise of citizens' rights of civic participation. The exercise of the right of petition, even taking into account the limitations that exist to the exercise of the right of citizens' legislative initiative, must be maintained, dignity and must not be created obstacles to the exercise of that right of citizenship. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u150	Mr Telmo Correia, from the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u151	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: A first note to say that from the point of view of the CDS-PP there are no two options in this area, i.e. to leave everything as it is or to follow the path of the PSD. There are three options before: leave everything as it is, or make changes that make sense, or follow the PSD path. There are not only two options, Mrs Catarina Rocha Ferreira, there are three! Let's go to the options PSD here brings us. First of all, on the subject of parliamentary investigations, I would say that this proposal, considering that several of the proposals are, from my point of view, unsustained and some even unconstitutional, above all, unnecessary, because Parliament can already do so. Nothing prevents Parliament from joining its external technical work, families or other actors, as if they were assistants, in a judicial process. However, attention is paid to those who are in a parliamentary committee of inquiry which has powers similar to those of the courts, even access to confidential material, subject to data protection. Will we always open this up to external entities? Does it make sense? Don't do it! In the case of fires, Parliament approved up to an independent technical committee, delegating to that committee the analysis of the matter. So it seems to me, frankly, that this proposal is unnecessary. On the other hand, it proposes that the PSD terminate the Transparency Committee and replace it with such a committee of wise men. Finally, there is no parliament where that happens, neither national nor international. The issues of the mandates and the Rules of Procedure are matters of the Members; they have to decide on them. Does it make any sense that who is not going to vote, who is not elected to decide on the mandate of Members? In our view, it makes no sense, unless this is some form of reconciliation with the figures of transparency — I am reminding myself of Dr. Paulo Morais or others — for this purpose. Honestly, from my point of view, it makes no sense! With regard to the right of petition, what does the PSD propose? It proposes limiting this right of petition, i.e. by raising the number of signatures, less matters will reach the plenary, less petitions will be discussed here. So from this point of view too, from my point of view, we have less participation and less democracy. These proposals, moreover, even from those who will not have great appreciation or encouragement for parliamentary activity, even if they admit it, are in some way unbelievable, and they are, in fact, bound by the proposal — this cannot be forgotten — to reduce the 15-year debates, because in these proposals we are discussing, the reduction of the 15-year debates directly links with the reduction of European debates. Are there European Councils that are important and others that are not? Oh, my God! Why only two a year? What do you do to others? Is the Prime Minister no longer being screened? It doesn't make any sense! I'd really say it's unbelievable. The Prime Minister was here a month ago in the 15-year debate, and yet he did not come because he had a European meeting and there was a Supplementary Budget. Now, we have left questions to the Prime Minister that he has not answered again. How could the greater opposition party not want the Prime Minister in Parliament to respond? Oh, my God! from my point of view, it makes no sense.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u152	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u153	In conclusion, I would say that these proposals represent a subjugation of Parliament to a government will or decision, transforming Members into mere assistants or, in some cases, bureaucrats that can achieve this same reality. On the other hand, what we have here — we must also say that — with the reference, often, to the two major parties, etc. , it is an absolute assumption of a proportionality rule that limits the pluralism of this Parliament. If I did not know the PSD as well as its deep democratic nature, I would say, in conclusion, that some more easter wind would have inspired some of these proposals, which obviously we do not follow. In addition to the technical shortcomings they have, these proposals represent some concession to populism—it is true! — they represent less supervision of Parliament, they represent less respect by the Members. The proposal of the external council is almost bullying against the Members! It's not acceptable!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u154	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u155	Madam President, I conclude now. Because they represent less supervision and less transparency, these proposals represent less democracy and therefore we cannot follow them. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u156	For an intervention, Mr André Ventura, of the Arrival, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u157	Madam President, I begin by saying that the arrival is absolutely against the end of any debate with the Prime Minister, whether he is a fortnight or prior to a European Council. It is up to us to oppose, and that is what we have to do. However, the arrival will accompany the PSD on an external council and the opening of committees of inquiry to civil society. For example, leading this council could have the former Attorney General of the Republic Joana Marques Vidal, if that did not bother the Socialist Party. [[Protests of PS Members.]] It will therefore accompany the PSD in everything that is open to civil society in a Parliament that can no longer respond to these initiatives. On the other hand, Mr José Manuel Pureza, for those who accused him of having no proposals and since so much he talks about this matter, I would like to say that there is not a single proposal from the Left Block on the subject under discussion. Those who talk so much about the lack of proposals from others should at least look at this.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u158	To close this debate,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u159	Madam President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u160	The Left Block would you like to use the word?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u161	Yes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u162	But the Bureau did not register, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u163	I just did, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u164	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u165	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This debate shows, on the one hand, some amnesia on the right, because it believes that it has in its proposals the alpha and the omega of the democratization of Parliament. Forget that they are made against achievements that the Left Block has achieved or in which it has participated. [[CH Member's protests, André Ventura.]] For example: access to the right to petition; reduction of the number of signatures for a legislative initiative of citizens; approximation of voters to Parliament — a conquest of the Left Block and other left parties, against which, curiously, the PSD is; improvement of the functioning of the committees of inquiry — a proposal that was even born from a PSD initiative today, being curiously against it, when it has not even had the ability to validate itself in concrete;...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u166	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u167	...the heritage of approaching the Assembly of the Republic, with reasons of interest, which are the 15-year debates—it was also a proposal of the Left Block...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u168	Sir, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u169	I conclude now, Madam President. The CDS wanted it to be weekly; we proposed it to be 15 years old, and the PS accepted. [[CDS-PP protests.]] It was our conquest.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u170	Oh, were you guys? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u171	So let us not be surprised that we do not follow the will of the right to destroy the achievements of democracy. Don't! It was us who conquered them, often against you. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u172	Mr André Coelho Lima of the PSD Parliamentary Group now speaks to close the debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u173	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we are witnessing a fight between the PSD, as a progressive force, and the conservative forces of this Parliament, who want to maintain everything as it was up here. [[PSD applause.]] [[PS and BE protests.]] Moreover, we have seen a party that proposes the opening of this Parliament and a group of unionists in parliamentary life who want to continue proudly alone. That's what we've seen, and so I'm going to quote a few phrases I've heard here, so they can be heard out there. [[Congrats from PSD MP Filipa Roseta.]] With regard to the participation of citizens in parliamentary life, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares said: "The citizens in parliamentary life assume a weakening of democracy".
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u174	No, it wasn't!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u175	It was said by Mrs Inês de Sousa Real: "The citizens, in parliamentary life, are an obstacle to the functioning of Parliament". It was said by Mr Jorge Lacão: "The citizens, in parliamentary life, are strange figures in this Parliament, are figures that devalue this Parliament". It's good that this is being heard out there. [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you: who is afraid of the people? We are not afraid of the people. [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]] You, who claim the people and who fill their mouths with the people, are, of course, one who is afraid to give signs of openness to whom he chooses us. We all know that the image is unfair—I repeat, unfair! — that Parliament needs signs from us outside, of opacity. These are signs that we are trying to demonstrate to the citizens that they put us here and that we are not the owners of democracy. Mr. Jorge Lacão, with all due regard and respect, I would like to say the following: I do not know whether the Socialist Party has made a good choice by putting the Chairman of the Transparency Committee to debate a proposal for the extinction of this proposal. [[PSD applause.]] I would also like to tell you, Mr President, that you have used the courts and the judges as an example of your claim, but you know, of course, that the criminal procedural law already presupposes, in this democracy, jury courts. Finally, the expression « ultramontano», which Mr has used, not referring to historical figures, but to current figures, is an unbearable elitism! He was applauded, standing up, by his party. They consider themselves to be the owners of democracy, and that is what we do not admit. [[All right!]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u176	But I will tell you of an ultra-mountain expression: « Beyond the Maron they send those who are there». That is a clearly ultramountain expression! This is the idea that you have these walls inside, but we don't have that idea, because we think who put us here and who can get us out of here can also have a role to play in day to day.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u177	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u178	Mr President, in conclusion, I am going to quote a sentence from Mr Jorge Lacão: « We have the confidence of citizens to represent them with dignity». Yes, sir, and the rest of you. Ladies and gentlemen, "we have this confidence to represent them, but we do not want to trust them to be here too! Do not keep on seeking. ” [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u179	Mrs Inês de Sousa Real asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u180	To defend the honour, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u181	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u182	Madam President, Mr André Coelho Lima, it is completely incomprehensible for us that you are here to say and quote words that we have not said. We suggest to the honourable Member that he be more attentive next time we speak. And so that there is no doubt about it, I repeat what we have said again, Mr President. What the NAP said was that the PSD has been obstructing citizen participation, not only with the limitation of petitions brought to the Assembly of the Republic, wanting to kick them down to the committees, but also by seeking to cut into the 15-year debates and seeking to cut off the powers of the Transparency Commission. Who is hindering citizen participation is the PSD and not the PAN. Therefore, Mr President, we do not accept that we should be given words that we have not said in our speech and that they not only pay attention to the honour of the NAP statements but also to the honour of this House of Democracy. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u183	Mr. André Coelho Lima, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u184	Madam President, Madam Member, very briefly, I wanted to tell you that we did not wish to harm the honor of your bench or of your ex.a. But I didn't say what the honourable Member just said. What I have said and I reiterate is that the honourable Member has classified the PSD proposals as 'a barrier to democracy'. This is what the honourable Member has said, and I repeat it does not pay attention to your honor. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u185	Mr. Jorge Lacão asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u186	To defend the honour, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u187	Please, Mr. Deputy. You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u188	Mr President, Mr. André Coelho Lima, the fundamental principles of democracy have been achieved by many, others other than us, with blood, sweat and tears, and they lack respect, which its concept does not show itself to be able to understand. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] What the honourable Member did was come here to say that whoever raised his voice to defend the autonomy and independence of parliaments acted as a unionist of parliamentary life.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u189	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u190	This is not just an aggression to an elected member, it is an aggression to the electors themselves at the moment when elected Members here legitimize them with dignity and democratic authority. [[P.S.'s applause.]] So, yes, Mr. André Coelho Lima, I reiterate everything he said and I stress again that elected Members cannot be replaced by figures and figures who, without their own legitimacy, come to give ethics criteria without having to respond to their own ethics. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I conclude by saying that, in fact, none of this has to do with the criteria for deepening citizens' participation in public life. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u191	This has to do with an essential distinction between citizenship rights and political authority rights to effectively represent that same citizenship. That was the confusion which Mr has shown in his concepts, and I can only give him advice: go see them while it is time, for the benefit of himself, of their bench and the dignity of Parliament. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u192	To reply, Mr André Coelho Lima has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u193	The President allowed the use of the word for a defence of honour which did not claim a single attack on that same honour. Stay for registration. [[PSD applause.]] On the other hand, I do consider my honour to be an attack when the honourable Member has the right to advise me to review my concepts. [[Protests by PS MP Jorge Lacão.]] Mr President, I have listened carefully to you. I ask you to hear me too, if you don't mind, because I want to tell you that my concepts are mine and that I will not rule for yours, you can be absolutely certain. What I will tell you, with all ease, is the following: Mr, in favour of the position you are in favour of, he has said certain circumstances that are wrong. They are wrong using judicial life, because it also, as I said, allows citizens to participate in the law already in force, and wrong because, as has already been said, there have already been parliamentary committees of inquiry in this House with the participation of citizens. [[Protests by PS Deputy Luís Moreira Testa.]] From that point on, Mr President, the only offence of honour in this Parliament was that of being able to qualify as ultra-mountain — I repeat, in an expression of unbearable elitism — who defends the opposite of what you are defending. [[Protests by PS Deputy Luís Moreira Testa.]] What the PSD defends is very simple. You claim to defend democracy and citizen participation, but you sit here and do nothing, legislatures after legislatures. We, as the major party to the opposition, have had the courage to present measures that demonstrate externally that citizens can participate, not at any time undermining the autonomy of the legislative power, until, as you know, the vote that will take place there, in particular in such a transparency council, must be followed by a vote in this Parliament, where elected Members are. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u194	Mr President, I would like to tell you that, unlike the honourable Member, the Bureau has no need to interpret when a Member or a bench feels or does not feel offended. [[Oh!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u195	I call on you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u196	What are you doing, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u197	To exercise the Regimental right to defend the honor of the bench, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u198	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u199	Madam President, I will speak very calmly, because I believe that the political debate lies at the points of the political debate and the defence of the honor of the bench is not for the prolongation of the political debate. In any case, I would note that an intervention which raises three requests for the defence of honor has, of course, a quality which, only because of this quantity of requests, is soon to be called into question. [[PSD laughter.]] from the Left Block, I want to say to you, Mr Coelho Lima, that you now have the opportunity to correct your statement, because it is clearly a lie we have told, and I in particular, that we are suspicious of the citizens. We do not trust the PSD proposals. We explained why we criticized them and considered them to be steps behind the deepening of democracy. What is different is Mr Deputy, not defending his proposals, come here to truncate words and phrases to pass ideas that are not those that have been transmitted. I believe that, in the name of the seriousness of the debate, and if you want to be taken seriously, you have now the time to say what people have heard. It's just that the idea you've conveyed is false and so I hope you'll correct it. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u200	To reply, Mr André Coelho Lima has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u201	Madam President, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, I thank you for the qualitative considerations you have raised about my speech, I will take them into account and I will, with the same tranquility as Mr Soares said, tell you the following: I did not say that the Left Block and the Member in particular mistrust of the citizens.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u202	I said, I said!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u203	What I said — and it is written in my speech — was that you said — and you will see in your speech — that these proposals presuppose a devaluation of democracy. The expression was « devaluation of democracy ». And we didn't agree with this. And I used that same expression — attention, which I did not use another expression, I used this one! — which was the one which Mr chose to use. Now, from the moment that you have used it, with all due respect for your position and the expression used, I allow you to answer it by using it. That's all. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u204	Mrs. Members, we conclude the joint discussion of Bill 457 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ), 458 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ), 459 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ), 460 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ), of the Resolution Project No 543 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) and the Bill No. 466 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN). of the next item on the agenda, to which no time has been assigned, there is Bill No. 471 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Amend the Annex to Law No 52 / 2019 of 31 July by harmonizing the content of the Single Declaration of Income, Heritage, Interests, Incompatibilities and Impediments with the respective form. Before we move on to the last item on the agenda, which is a matter of vote, I would like to warn the ladies and gentlemen. Members for the votes that are taking place in the Senate Chamber, with a view to the election of various bodies outside the Assembly, whose polls close at the time this plenary session is closed. So, who hasn't yet voted, he still has a chance to do it. Let us then proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u205	I call on you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u206	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u207	Madam President, having entered the last item on the agenda, which is the vote, the PAN, on the basis of Article 26 ( 2 ). Article 59 ( 3 ). Article 82 ( 2 ) and ( 2 ). the Rules of Procedure, making a complaint and appeal to the plenary of a decision of the Bureau, namely the admissibility of the Draft Vote No 282 / XIV / 1. a ( presented by PS, PSD, CDS-PP and CH ) — Despite the death of Mário Coelho, which violates what is established in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u208	Why? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u209	Mr André Silva, your interpretation will certainly be legitimate. However, I do not think that is the interpretation given by the competent services and that has been accepted. Do you wish to appeal to the plenary of the Bureau?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u210	That is precisely what I said, Madam President. We intend to complain and appeal to the plenary of that decision. We have the right to do so, in accordance with the three standards I have invoked for this purpose. And I will base the appeal within the time allowed in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u211	All right, Mr. André Silva. You have the word, to substantiate the appeal, for 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u212	Madam President, in accordance with Article 82 ( 2 ). I've got, not two minutes, but three minutes. The new paragraph 7 of Article 75. that of the Rules of Procedure states that the votes of regret which extravagant this same object should be reduced to the committee responsible on the subject of discussion and vote. However, since this article was approved, the NAP submitted five draft weighing votes, which all dropped to committee because they extravagant the object of the weighing. I'm going to read only two passages from two of our draft votes that were at the origin of the alleged extravagance of the object of weighing. in one of them, in spite of the death of a child named Valentina, we said at one point: "Despite the progress made so far, of existing legislation and ratified international conventions, many children still do not have their rights fully guaranteed. at this time of regret, we cannot fail to strengthen our serious commitment to promoting policies that strengthen the protection of children and young people and combat violence and child abuse. Do not keep on seeking. ” in another voting project, despite Beatriz Lebre's death, we said, at some point, the following: « Violence against women continues to be a scourge in our country, which needs every effort to be prevented and combated, requiring an ever more in-depth reflection and an increasingly early and integrated intervention. Do not keep on seeking. ” And these were the reasons why it was understood that the votes exceeded the object of regret and were sent to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u213	To the commission!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u214	However, the draft vote to regret the death of Master Mário Coelho says, at a certain stage, that the same was « one of the great ambassadors(...) of Portugal abroad ». Ambassador of Portugal? Oh, my God! Someone who represents the whole or most Portuguese, who represents the values of Portugal is an ambassador, which is not the case. It is that someone, like the Mário Coelho, who has spent a lifetime—and has done his job—to mistreat, slaughter and kill animals for fun, is not an ambassador of Portugal. [[PAN's applause.]] [[Protests of the PSD, having beaten with the hands on the sides of the benches.]] Someone with dirty hands of blood is not an ambassador from Portugal!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u215	I ask you to finish, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u216	I'm in my time, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u217	He's not!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u218	In accordance with Article 82 ( 2 ). The Rules of Procedure, I am. This is an insulting political consideration, which extravagants the subject matter of weighing the vote. The Bureau has two pesos and two measures: veto votes with a humanist content and defending universal values, but allows votes that enhance the culture of death and the culture of blood. It's unacceptable! [[PAN's applause.]] [[Protests from PS and PSD Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u219	I call on you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u220	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u221	In the context of Mr André Silva's complaint and appeal, it is appropriate to state the position of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group on the subject in accordance with the rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u222	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u223	Mr President, with the effort made by all parliamentary groups in the framework of the revision of the Rules of Procedure, a criterion was adopted for the assumption and vote in plenary of votes of regret, stressing that votes which are not subject to weight should be referred to the committee, i.e. those which contain political considerations that go beyond the recognition of the life of a certain personality. Whether Mr André Silva likes it or does not like the Tauromachic activity—and I think that my position is known, so I will not be suspected of using the word in this debate—the fact is that, stressing the life of a personality without mentioning what are the traces of the life of that personality is impossible.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u224	All right! [[PS and PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u225	To make a regret vote that recognizes and underlines what are the biographical elements of a person's life is not, in our perspective, violating the rule of law. I believe that there are two issues that must call on us — and we are making use of this in the debate — on motions for regrets. At a time when we appreciate a vote of regret for the death of a person, we must have the ability not to lose humanity and recognize that there are relatives, friends, institutions that need to be respected. [[PS, PSD, IL and PSD Member Fernanda Velez applause standing.]] The fact that, in democracy, we disagree with the activity that person A or person B develops, Mr. Member, cannot make us immune to this humanity, recognizing that, at a time of loss, there are those who want to reflect their mourning, their grief. And this institution will have a time when it will vote. And it is at the time of the vote that, if you understand it, you can express your disagreement, you may not follow the sense of regret, you can vote differently. But trying to confuse a biographical note with political considerations is going too far. And allow me to tell you, Mr President — with all my respect and with the sharing of some aspects in which we agree on the heart of the problem — that it is not worth everything in a debate to make social transformation. It cannot be worth everything and there are certain things that must be above political debate and confrontation. And in this case, the Bureau is absolutely right, so we shall vote against the appeal put forward by the honourable Member. [[Congratulations from the PS and PSD Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u226	Mr Telmo Correia asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u227	Mr President, it is to speak in the same terms and for the same purpose as Mr Pedro Delgado Alves.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u228	You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u229	Madam President, it is only to say two or three very simple things. I still do not understand the exact object of Mr André Silva's appeal so far. I can even understand your reason for complaint about your vows, but in relation to this one, I sincerely continue without understanding the basis of the appeal, unless this foundation is the NAP to take advantage of this fact to exercise life proof or proof of union around its values, which I find most difficult to do, even in this context. Mr. Deputies said only that Maestro Mário Coelho was not an ambassador from Portugal. Mr President, the expression « Ambassador of Portugal » here obviously gives the sense that we give to someone who, being Portuguese, was a notable figure and, in our opinion, remarkable,... [[Protests by PAN MP André Silva.]] ... that took the name of Portugal to many and many places. For some reason, he, a Portugueseman, has forged a friendship with — and I will repeat what consists of the vote — Hemingway, Orson Welles, Ava Gardner, and was portrayed by Pablo Picasso. Therefore, this Portuguese, whether or not he likes his activity, deserves respect. That is why this vote must be voted on. And that's why the CDS, first of all, took this initiative. You may take advantage of it to make a number. What the honourable Member did was a number,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u230	Circus!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u231	... strictly a number that adds nothing to this reality. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u232	Mr. André Ventura, have you asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u233	Madam President, I am not going to talk about this. I just want to ask the Bureau about the conduct of the work.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u234	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u235	Mr President, it has to do with this. In no way agreeing with what the two Mrs said. Members, PS and CDS, what we need here is common rules. There have already been a number of resources for the plenary in this regard, and at that time, what the Bureau said was that there was no debate or party positions on appeal to the plenary. Let us see what Article 82. the Rules of Procedure say that, having recourse to the plenary, the Member who has travelled has three minutes to substantiate the same, and that there is no debate. So there is either debate or there is no debate. We must have rules and there cannot be a different rule every day. So what I ask is the following: what happened now, and what is legitimate, can happen? It's just that it never happened to us! I don't know what the work is done, but the truth is, there have to be rules. No one will think that I agree with the positions transmitted here by Mr André Silva, but he has resorted and has the right to appeal. But you have to understand whether there is room for debate later, or whether the appeal is immediately voted on in plenary. If Mr Delgado Alves has invoked a regiment figure, I want to know what it is. The Rules of Procedure do not talk about it — and I think no one else.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u236	Mr, this is not Article 82. the, is, yes, Article 59. the Rules of Procedure. The Bureau decided that way. If you would also like to refer to the plenary on the Bureau's decisions, please. Mrs. Members, we shall vote on the appeal for the plenary tabled by Mr André Silva of the PAN with regard to the admissibility of the draft vote No 282 / XIV / 1. a ( presented by PS, PSD, CDS-PP and CH ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, ENP, CH, IL and non-registered MP Cristina Rodrigues were rejected and votes against the NAP.]] The application of the NAP was thus rejected. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let us turn to the last item on today's agenda, the vote on the Rules of Procedure. We have a long list of votes to take, and I therefore call on them to cooperate, so that we can conduct this process in the best way and so that we can succeed and not extend it indefinitely. We begin by voting on the Draft Vote No. 268 / XIV / 1. a ( presented by the PSD ) — regretting the death of the doctor Vítor Duarte. Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha will proceed to her reading.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u237	I call on you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u238	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u239	Mr President, to indicate that Mr Jorge Costa and Mr Sandra Cunha of BE, are present in the Plenary, as it is visible, although they are not registered in the current system. I would therefore like to give this information in terms of quorum validation.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u240	Thank you very much, Mr President. Be registered and the services will take note. Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha will therefore please read the Vote Project No. 268 / XIV / 1. a ( presented by the PSD ) — regretting the death of the doctor Vítor Duarte.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u241	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « Last June 17, the first Portuguese health professional infected with the COVID-19 died. The doctor Vítor Duarte was hospitalized about a month and a half ago in intensive care at the Hospital de São José, an integrated unit at the Centro Hospitalar Universitário Lisboa Central, EPE (CHULC). Specialized in Internal Medicine, the sense of mission and service to the public cause of Dr. Vítor Duarte was well evidenced in the collaboration that, at the age of 68, still served on the gastroenterology team at the Curry Cabral Hospital, an equally integrated unit in the CHULC. The human and professional qualities of Dr. Vítor Duarte, enhanced by all who lived with him, can be synthesized in a way of praise: he was a serious man, honored and deeply dedicated to his patients. The death of Dr. Vítor Duarte still demonstrates the enormous risk to which our health professionals are subject, thousands of whom have already been infected by COVID-19. The protection of health professionals is the first measure to ensure the protection of all Portuguese. Thus, meeting in plenary session, the Assembly of the Republic expresses its greatest regret over the death of the doctor Vítor Duarte and addresses his vows of sorrow to the family and friends of this health professional. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u242	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously, registering the absence of the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We now move on to the Vote Project No. 279 / XIV / 1. a ( presented by the PS ) — I regret the death of Antonio Saleiro, who will be read by Mr Pedro do Carmo. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u243	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « Died António Saleiro, Master in Law, graduate in Public Administration and Public Economic Law, jurist and Professor of Law at the Higher Institute Manuel Teixeira Gomes, of the Lusofona Group, in Portimão. Natural of Almodóvar, in his Basso Alentejo, António Manuel do Carmo Saleiro was appointed to the Assembly of the Republic by the Electoral Circle of Beja, in III, VII and VIII Legislatures, in a business, civic, political and academic journey marked by the defence of regional development. He was President of the Municipality of Almodóvar, between 1982 and 1995, effective member of the Permanent Conference of Local and Regional Powers of Europe in Strasbourg, and Civil Governor of Beja, between 1995 and 1997, prestigious the local power and the importance of being close to people. Entrepreneur, he was president of the Commercial Association of the District of Beja, between 2005 and 2008, and was currently president of the General Assembly of the Holy House of Mercy of Almodóvar. In 2018, he published the work The Myth of Local Power- Manual for autarchs and students, leaving their view on local authorities, their functioning and how people's problems were solved. For António Saleiro, the wealth of communities resulted from the sum of the democratic diversity of all sides, from the individual impulses that turn into community effort and from the search for points of convergence for the construction of solutions for people and for territories. He always fought for his ideas, for his region and for his rural reality, for his style, leaving no one indifferent. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its regret over the death of Antonio Manuel do Carmo Saleiro, addressing his family, his children, here present, and the Socialist Party the most sincere condolences. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u244	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously, registering the absence of the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira.]] The Bureau also addresses the family of Antonio Saleiro felt condolences. We continue with the Vote Project No 280 / XIV / 1. a ( presented by PAR ) — I regret the death of Alfredo Tropa, who Mr Duarte Pacheco will do the favor of reading.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u245	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « He died last July 5, 2020, at 81 years of age, Alfredo Ricardo Rezende Tropa, a unique figure of television and cinema. Born in Porto in 1939, Alfredo Trope studied at the Faculty of Sciences of the University of Coimbra, where he began his involvement with the cinema. Fellow of the National Film Fund, he obtained his diploma at the Institute of High Film Studies in Paris. throughout his career, Alfredo Trope stood out both in cinema and television, leaving significant film work between documentary and fiction. He was the founder, with important names of Portuguese cinema, of the Portuguese Cinema Center, who had a central role in the affirmation of the New Cinema, a movement in which he inserted himself, in particular his most acclaimed long film, Pedro Solo(70 ), adaptation of the book Pedro, Romance of the Vagabondo by Manuel Mendes. As a television man, integrated in the paintings of the RTP, since 1968, Alfredo Tropa has carried out, with ethnomusicologist Michel Giacometti, one of the most remarkable cultural programs, People and Singa, which is the most important anthological collection of always Portuguese regional music. Even at RTP, Alfredo Trope was the director of the special session held on 25 April 1974, from the Lumiar studios, controlled by the Armed Forces Movement, signed in 1976 the first public television colour experience. In 2000 Alfredo Tropa was thanked with the rank of commander of the Order of Infante D. Henrique. Meeting in plenary session, the Assembly of the Republic expresses its deep regret at the death of Alfredo Tropa, recalling his qualities and addressing the most heartfelt condolences to his family and friends. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u246	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously, registering the absence of the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira.]] The Mesa, in the same way, addresses also filmmaker Teresa Olga, widow of Alfredo Tropa, sorry feelings. Following the Vote Project No 282 / XIV / 1. a ( presented by PS, PSD, CDS-PP and CH ) — To regret the death of Maestro Mário Coelho. Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha will proceed to the vote. Please, Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u247	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « On 5 July 2020, in which it would be a Sunday of Incarnate Collection, died, victim of COVID-19, in Vila Franca de Xira, the conceptualized tourist Mário Coelho, big name of the Tauromacia and one of the great cultural ambassadors of Portugal abroad. Full name Mário Coelho Luís, was born in Vila Franca de Xira, on March 25, 1936, and was one of the most emblematic bull killers in Portugal. In the 1950s and 60s of the 20th century, he achieved international prestige as an outpost of the main Portuguese and Spanish figures of the bull on foot, winning the most important national prizes and integrating the ranks of Spanish killers, thus achieving the status of "Best World Bander", and it was the most successful prizes worldwide. He presented himself at the Monumental de Las Ventas, in Madrid, as debutant novice, on May 4, 1967, and, on July 25, of that year, took the alternative of killer in Badajoz, confirming it in 1975, at the Monumental do México, and in 1980 in Las Ventas, Madrid. Mário Rabbit was a revered and admired by many, depriving, throughout his life, with Pablo Picasso, Hemingway, Orson Welles, Ava Gardner and Audrey Hepburn, among others. In 1990, he fired from the arenas, cutting the collection at the Plaza de Touros do Campo Pequeno, in Lisbon. in that same year, he was thanked with the Medal of Cultural Merit in 1990, by then Secretary of State of Culture, Pedro Santana Lopes, and in 2005 with the Order of Merit Command, by then President of the Republic Jorge Sampaio. In October 2001, in the house where he was born in Vila Franca de Xira, he opened to the public the Casa Museu Mário Coelho. In 2005, marking 50 years of bull, published the autobiographical book of Gold Silver, with the preface of Agustina Bessa-Luís. In October 2019, he was honored in his native land, with the inauguration of a bust in his honor, of the author of the sculptor Paulo Moura. And already in February of this year, Manuel Alegre presented in the Small Field his biography Mário Coelho - UmOmen Entente, of the authorship of Antonio de Sousa Duarte. I recently said that I would like to be remembered as « a worthy man, a man who has drawn a straight path and who has never come out of it». And so it will be. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, decided to demonstrate its deep regret and dismay at the death of Master Mário Coelho and to present his condolences to the family. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u248	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, PCP, CDS-PP, ENP, CH and IL, votes against the NAP and abstentions by BE and non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues.]] We still have to vote for the Draft Vote No 286 / XIV / 1. a ( presented by CH, PSD and CDS-PP ) — Despite the death of two soldiers on duty of the Republican National Guard, who will be read by Secretary Duarte Pacheco. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u249	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « They died this week, following a road accident during the course of their duties, two young GNR agents who were inside a car, identified next to the central separator of A1 in the Santarém area, and who was violently picked up by a car that apparently followed in excess of speed. Such a fatality can only generate greater respect by the Assembly of the Republic, and a sense of regret over the loss suffered by their families, friends, and other professionals of the Republican National Guard. Carlos Pereira and Vania Martins, meeting the latter at this moment in brain death, are two names that, possibly, many say little, but, to the few who say, say a lot. Carlos and Vania lost their lives in the exercise of their duties of maintaining order and guaranteeing the peace and security of all of us. Therefore, the Assembly of the Republic pays its tribute to them, thanking them for their hard work on GNR's burden, addressing their sense of sorrow to family and friends. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u250	Before we proceed to the vote on this vote, we must make a correction to what has been read, which is as follows: only one of the military has died, the other is in a critical state. So the correction is made and we obviously want rapid improvements to the military that was wounded. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously, registering the absence of the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, following the draft votes that we have just adopted, we will keep a minute of silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] We continue with the vote on draft resolution No 568 / XIV / 1. a ( PAR) — Move of the President of the Republic to Madrid. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously, registering the absence of the CH and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] Mrs. Members, we shall vote for an application by the PS, requesting a discharge from the Committee on Economic Affairs, Innovation, Public Works and Housing, without a 30-day vote of the Bill No 41 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — establishes special public procurement measures and amends the Public Contracts Code and the Code of Procedure in the Administrative Tribunals. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously, registering the absence of the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira.]] The diploma is thus reduced to 6. the Commission. The general vote on the Bill No 42 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Alter the exceptional regime for situations of late payment of income in non-residential lease contracts under the COVID-19 pandemic. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PAN and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and abstentions from the PSD, BE, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the ENP, the CH and the IL.]] We shall proceed to the vote on a request by the PCP, which is down to the Committee on Economic Affairs, Innovation, Public Works and Housing, for 15 days without a vote of Bill No 452 / XIV / 1. a ( CFP ) — establishes an exceptional scheme applicable to specific forms of contracts for the exploitation of buildings for trade and services in commercial centres. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously, registering the absence of the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira.]] The bill goes down to 6. the Commission. We will generally vote for Bill No. 464 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — establishes an exceptional non-residential lease scheme in the event of a decrease in income. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the CDS-PP and the IL were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP, the ENP and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and abstentions from the PSD, the PAN and the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u251	Madam President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u252	The honourable Member is asking for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u253	Madam President, I apologize for saying at the moment, it should have been before the vote, but we have submitted to the Bureau a request for discharge to the Committee on Economic Affairs, Innovation, Public Works and Housing, without a vote, for 15 days on this bill.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u254	I did not have this indication, but in that case we shall then vote on this request. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously, registering the absence of the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira.]] The bill goes down to 6. the Commission. We shall continue with the vote on a request submitted by the Block of the Left, of low to the Committee on Economics, Innovation, Public Works and Housing, without voting for 15 days of Bill No. 469 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Exceptional non-residential income scheme for tenants and retailers affected in their activity that have seen the establishment closed or limited at the time. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously, registering the absence of the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira.]] The bill goes down to 6. the Commission. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we will now vote, in general, on the speciality and in the overall final vote, on Law No 39 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Authorizes the Government to legislate on the legal unit system by transposing Directive ( EU ) 2019 / 1258. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, ENP, IL and non-registered MP Cristina Rodrigues and NAP and CH abstentions.]] We turn to the general vote on the Bill No 40 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Transposing Articles 2. o is 3. that of Directive ( EU ) 2017 / 2455 and Directive ( EU ) 2019 / 1995 by amending the VAT Code, the VAT regime in intra-Community transactions and additional legislation relating to this tax in the context of the processing of electronic commerce. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of the PS and the PSD and with abstentions from BE, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the PEN, the CH, the IL and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues.]] We proceed with the general vote of Bill No 388 / XIV / 1. a (CH) — Addition to List I annexed to the VAT Code with the inclusion of services provided in the physical exercise area in gyms, fitness clubs and health. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the PCP and the ENP were rejected, votes against the NAP, the CH, the IL and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and abstentions from the PSD, BE and the CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u255	Madam President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u256	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u257	Madam President, it is to announce that we will make a statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u258	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we will vote on a request, submitted by the PS with the agreement of the Government and other parliamentary groups, requesting the general vote, in general, on the speciality and in the overall final vote, of the Proposal for a Law No 34 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — prolongs the deadline for an exceptional scheme of measures applicable to local authorities under the COVID-19 pandemic and amends the rules on the indebtedness of authorities. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously, registering the absence of the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We shall, in general, vote on the Bill No 34 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — prolongs the deadline for an exceptional scheme of measures applicable to local authorities under the COVID-19 pandemic and amends the rules on the indebtedness of authorities. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PAN, CH and Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and with abstentions from the CFP, the CDS-PP, the ENP and the IL.]] Let's move on to the specialty vote. We shall vote on paragraph 1 of that bill. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN, CH and Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and PCP, ENP and IL abstentions.]] We turn to the vote on the amendment tabled by the Left Block to Article 2. the proposal for a law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP, CH and IL and votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues were rejected.]] We shall therefore vote on Article 2. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PSD, PCP, PAN, ENP and Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and Abstaining from BE, CDS-PP, CH and IL.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we now have a request from the CFP to vote on Article 3. -A and Articles 5 together. a and 10. the Law No 4 - B / 2020, as set out in Article 3. The proposal of the law. Let's vote on the request.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u259	It's not in the script!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u260	You can't invent another script!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u261	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there are several things that are not in the script because they were presented later.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u262	Madam President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u263	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u264	Madam President, we are voting on the speciality of a bill. In the script all Article 3 appeared added. the, but Article 3. the, amending Law No 4 - B / 2020, amends three articles of that law. As a specialist vote, what we propose — and that is what we have asked the Bureau to do — is that we vote on Article 3. -A and then we jointly vote on Articles 5. a and 10. Law No 4 - B / 2020. But I reiterate, Madam President, that we are voting on the speciality, and that is why there is a prerogative of the parties to be able to vote on Article 1 point to point, of course.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u265	I call on you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u266	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u267	Madam President, I would like to make an inquiry to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings. In fact, I do not know how to manage a vote in which, half an hour or so, I am called on to vote points which do not even appear in the vote script and which, suddenly, I have to use the original diplomas. This is not possible, it does not give serious importance to parliamentary work! I would ask that there be some rule, some minimum advance so that we can know what will be voted on by points and which are the points.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u268	Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, as you know, when a speciality vote is being taken, any parliamentary group or Member may make an oral request for a separate vote. So that's what's being done.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u269	I call on you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u270	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u271	Madam President, I accept what you have said — and Mrs Paula Santos too — but I would like to note that Mr João Cotrim de Figueiredo is quite right. Above all, with the rules we have now, not even all the Members who have followed this matter and who know the specialty are present, which would make me, as the representative of the CDS, know all the diplomas in the vote, one by one, all the articles and all the points, which is clearly impossible, Mr President. The honourable Member is right.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u272	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the Bureau's proposal is as follows: for them to have time to organize themselves, we will move forward and we will leave these votes to the end in the field. Do you all agree?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u273	Madam President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u274	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u275	Madam President, it is not about the proposal, but now, and to avoid further confusion, I would like to make it clear that we have also asked for a separate vote on points 1, 2 and 3 of Article 4. The proposal of the law.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u276	Mrs Deputy, you did well to recall that, in fact, there is also a requirement of the CFP to vote separately on Article 4 (1), (2) and (3). that of the same bill. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a normal situation: we have a long list of votes and we also have an exceptional situation, as Mr Telmo Correia said, in which, for reasons which are known, not all of us can be present. Ladies and gentlemen, what you obviously create more difficulties. The list of votes is long and I therefore call on everyone to work together so that we try to simplify and not create added difficulties. We will therefore pass this vote on the specialty to the end. I would like to point out again that the requirement of the CFP is to be voted on in respect of Article 3. the proposal for a law, first, Article 3. o -A; then Articles 5. a and 10. the overall, of Law Nos 4 - B / 2020, and the following shall be voted separately, Article 10 (1), (2) and (3). the Law No 6 / 2020, as set out in Article 4. The proposal of the law. The proposal is therefore that all the votes on page 8 of the script be taken at the end if they agree.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u277	I call on you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u278	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u279	Mr President, we agree with this method, however, ask that the Bureau distribute to parliamentary groups the written request submitted by the CFP, so that we can conduct ourselves more easily.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u280	Mr President, I have already said twice that this is an oral request and that this can be done because it is a right that any parliamentary group has when it comes to voting in the specialty. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, I shall repeat: the request made by the CFP is that Article 3 is to be voted separately. o -A and then articles 5. a and 10. the Law No 4 - B / 2020, as well as Article 10 (1), (2) and (3). the Law No 6 / 2020, as set out in Articles 3, respectively. a is 4. The proposal of the law. So all of this will be voted on at the end. There is no objection, so it will be done. [[Pause.]] We shall then proceed with the vote on Article 5. The proposal of the law.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u281	I call on you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u282	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u283	Mr President, following your suggestion, the ideal would be to leave the rest of the vote in the specialty and the overall final vote of the Bill No 34 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) for the time when the vote on this diploma will resume, now continuing the votes with Bill No. 1236 / XIII / 4. a.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u284	All right, Mr, that will be done. Let us then proceed to the general vote of Bill No 1236 / XIII / 4. a (Citizens) — Terminates the allocation of financial support by public entities for the conduct of Tauromachic activities.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u285	Madam President, may I apologize for using the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u286	Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u287	For an appeal to the Bureau, on the conduct of the proceedings, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u288	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u289	Mr President, as the Bureau has been informed, in view of the continuance of the organization of parliamentary work, which prevents the presence of all the Members of Parliament and of the Members of Parliament. Members in the Chamber at the time of the vote, and there are Members of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group who will vote in a different way than the one who is the vote on the bench, asked the Bureau to validate the following procedure: with regard to the honourable Members. Members who cannot be present in the Chamber to convey their vote, but whose presence has been validated and registered in the quorum reached recently, asked that, at the end of the vote, after signaling the vote of the present, be indicated their name and the corresponding vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u290	All right, Mr. Deputies. Let us then vote, in general, as I have already said, the Bill No. 1236 / XIII / 4. a (Citizens) — Terminates the allocation of financial support by public entities for the conduct of Tauromachic activities. I'll start by asking who votes against. [[Pause.]] They vote against PS, PSD, PCP, CDS-PP, and CH. I wonder, now, who's away. [[Pause.]] Members of PS Elza Pais, Catarina Marcelino and Sara Velez are absent. Who votes in favour? [[Pause.]] They vote in favour of BE, the PAN, the PEV, the IL, the deputy who did not register Cristina Rodrigues and the PS...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u291	I'm sorry, Madam President, it's not the PS, it's PS Members and they'll have to be identified individually.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u292	So, you're going to read the list of PS Members who vote in favour?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u293	No, the President is counting on the present and I am adding those who are not in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u294	So, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for identifying yourself, for the purposes of registration, even because, with the masks, it becomes more difficult to identify. Let us therefore know who are the PS Members who are voting in favour. [[Pause.]] The Bureau recorded the votes in favour of PS Marina Gonçalves, Pedro Delgado Alves, Célia Paz, Anabela Rodrigues, Eduardo Barroco de Melo, Luís Graza, Porfirio Silva, Ana Passos, Filipe Pacheco, André Pinotes Batista, Miguel Matos, Olovo Câmara, Alexandra Tavares de Moura, Rita Borges Madeira, Isabel Rodrigues, Tiago Estêvão Martins, Carlos Brás, Diogo León, Maria Begonha, Hugo Oliveira, Bruno Aragão, Susana Correia Santos, Joana Sá Pereira, Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro, Carla Sousa, Maria Antonio de Almeida Santos and Filipe Neto Brandão. [[PAN's applause.]] He was now asking Mr Pedro Delgado Alves to inform the honourable Members of his vote. PS Members who are not in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u295	Madam President, I have the indication that in the vote on this bill, you abstain from it. Mr José Magalhães and Mr Luís Soares and the President. [[Laughing.]] I had that indication, but... [[Laughing.]] Mr President, I think Mr. José Magalhães, who is present, had already made this communication. If there is any repetition, Madam President, I would ask for your condescendence for the atypicality of the procedure. They vote in favour of the honourable Members. Mr. Bacelar de Vasconcelos, Sonia Fertuzinhos and Hugo Carvalho. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u296	It was a difficult accounting, sirs. Members, but we follow the result of the general vote of Bill No 1236 / XIII / 4. a (Citizens) — Terminates the allocation of financial support by public entities for the conduct of Tauromachic activities. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, PCP, CDS-PP and CH were rejected, votes against BE, PAN, PEV, IL, Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and 31 PS Members and abstentions of 5 PS Members.]] We proceed to the general vote of Bill No. 22 / XIV / 1. a (PEV) — Prevents public financing for Tauromachic shows. Who votes against? [[Pause.]] They vote against PS, PSD, PCP, CDS-PP, and CH. Who's away? [[Pause.]] Members of PS Elza Pais, Catarina Marcelino and Sara Velez are absent. Who votes in favour? [[Pause.]] The Bureau recorded the votes in favour of BE, PAN, PEV, IL, Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and PS Deputies Marina Gonçalves, Pedro Delgado Alves, Célia Paz, Anabela Rodrigues, Eduardo Barroco de Melo, Luís Graza, Porfirio Silva, Ana Passos, Filipe Pacheco, André Pinotes Batista, Miguel Matos, Olovo Câmara, Alexandra Tavares de Moura, Rita Borges Madeira, Tiago Estêvão Martins, Carlos Brás, Diogo Leone, Maria Begonha, Hugo Oliveira, Bruno Aragon, Susana Correia Santos, Joana Sá Pereira, Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro, Carlo Sousa, Maria Antonio de Almeida Santos and Filipe Neto Brandão. Mr Pedro Delgado Alves, please announce the votes of the Members. PS Members who are not in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u297	Madam President, I have an indication that you are. Mr Hugo Carvalho and Mr Vasconcelos voted in favour, and the honourable Members voted in favour. Mr Sonia Fertuzinhos and Mr Luís Soares abstain.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u298	Mrs. Members, we follow the result of the general vote of Bill No 22 / XIV / 1. a (PEV) — Prevents public financing for Tauromachic shows. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, PCP, CDS-PP and CH were rejected, votes against BE, PAN, PEV, IL, Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and 29 PS Members and abstentions of 5 PS Members.]] Let us now proceed to the general vote on Bill No 243 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Prevents institutional support for performances that inflict physical or psychological suffering or cause animal death. Who votes against? [[Pause.]] They vote against PS, PSD, PCP, CDS-PP, and CH. In view of the large number of PS Members who abstain, I would also ask that they be identified for registration. [[Pause.]] The Bureau records the abstention of PS Pedro Delgado Alves, Sara Velez, Catarina Marcelino, Elza Pais, Porfirio Silva, Diogo León, Hugo Oliveira, Bruno Aragon, Susana Correia, Cláudia Santos and Filipe Neto Brandão. I ask, now, who votes in favour. [[Pause.]] The Bureau recorded the votes in favour of BE, PAN, PEV, IL, Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and PS Deputies Marina Gonçalves, Célia Paz, Anabela Rodrigues, Eduardo Barroco de Melo, Luís Graça, Ana Passos, Filipe Pacheco, André Pinotes Batista, Miguel Matos, Olavo Câmara, Alexandra Tavares de Moura, Rita Borges Madeira, Isabel Rodrigues, Tiago Estêvão Martins, Carlos Brás, Maria Begonha, Joana Sá Pereira, Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro, Carla Sousa and Maria Antonio de Almeida Santos. Please indicate the point of vote of the other PS Members, Mr Pedro Delgado Alves.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u299	Madam President, I have the indication that, in the vote on this bill, Mr. Mr Hugo Carvalho and Mr Vasconcelos voted in favour, and the honourable Members voted in favour. Deputies Luís Soares and Sonia Fertuzinhos abstain.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u300	Mrs. Members, we follow the result of the general vote of Bill No 243 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Prevents institutional support for performances that inflict physical or psychological suffering or cause animal death. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, PCP, CDS-PP and CH were rejected, votes against BE, PAN, PEV, IL, Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and 22 PS Members and abstentions of 13 PS Members.]] We will move on to the general vote of Bill No 257 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — For the non-use of public money for financing Tauromachic activities. Who votes against? [[Pause.]] They vote against PS, PSD, PCP, CDS-PP, and CH. I wonder, now, who's away. [[Pause.]] The Bureau records the abstention of PS Marina Gonçalves, Pedro Delgado Alves, Porfirio Silva, Elza Pais, Diogo León, Hugo Oliveira, Bruno Aragon, Susana Correia, Cláudia Santos and Filipe Neto Brandão. Who votes in favour? [[Pause.]] The Bureau recorded the votes in favour of BE, PAN, PEV, IL, Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and PS Deputies Célia Paz, Anabela Rodrigues, Eduardo Barroco de Melo, Luís Graza, Filipe Pacheco, André Pinotes Batista, Miguel Matos, Olavo Câmara, Tiago Estêvão Martins, Maria Begonha, Joana Sá Pereira, Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro, Carla Sousa and Maria Antonio de Almeida Santos. Mr Pedro Delgado Alves, please indicate the vote of the Members. PS Members who are not in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u301	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Hugo Carvalho and Mr Vasconcelos, who voted in favour, and the Members. Mr Sonia Fertuzinhos and Mr Luís Soares who abstain.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u302	Mrs. Members, we follow the result of the general vote of Bill No 257 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — For the non-use of public money for financing Tauromachic activities. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, PCP, CDS-PP and CH were rejected, votes against BE, PAN, PEV, IL, Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and 16 PS Members and abstentions by 12 PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u303	Madam President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u304	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u305	Madam President, it is to inform me that I intend to make an oral vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u306	All right. It shall be done immediately before the end of the plenary. We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 468 / XIV / 1. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ) — Prevents the use of public money for direct or indirect financing of Tauromachic activities. Who votes against? [[Pause.]] They vote against PS, PSD, PCP, CDS-PP, and CH. Who's away? [[Pause.]] The Bureau noted the abstention of PS Members Elza Pais, Catarina Marcelino and Sara Velez. I ask, now, who votes in favour. [[Pause.]] The Bureau recorded the votes in favour of BE, PAN, PEV, IL, Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and PS Deputies Marina Gonçalves, Pedro Delgado Alves, Célia Paz, Anabela Rodrigues, Eduardo Barroco de Melo, Luís Graça, Porfirio Silva, Ana Passos, Filipe Pacheco, André Pinotes Batista, Miguel Matos, Olovo Câmara, Alexandra Tavares de Moura, Rita Borges Madeira, Tiago Estêvão Martins, Diogo León, Maria Begonha, Hugo Oliveira, Bruno Aragon, Susana Correia, Cláudia Santos, Joana Sá Pereira, Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro, Carla Sousa, Maria Antonio de Almeida Santos and Filipe Neto Brandão. Please indicate the point of vote of the other PS Members, Mr Pedro Delgado Alves.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u307	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Hugo Carvalho and Mr Vasconcelos, who voted in favour, and the Members. Mr Sonia Fertuzinhos and Mr Luís Soares who abstain.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u308	Mrs. Members, we follow the result of the general vote of Bill No 468 / XIV / 1. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ) — Prevents the use of public money for direct or indirect financing of Tauromachic activities. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, PCP, CDS-PP and CH were rejected, votes against BE, PAN, PEV, IL of Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and 28 PS Members and abstentions of 5 PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u309	Madam President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u310	Ask for the floor to what effect, Mrs. Member?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u311	Madam President, it is to announce that Mr. Members Maria Begonha, Joana Sá Pereira, Tiago Estêvão Martins, Eduardo Barroco de Melo, Miguel Matos, Filipe Pacheco and Olavo Camera will present a statement of vote on the votes of the last five bills.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u312	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mr Hugo Martins de Carvalho, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u313	Madam President, it is to announce that I will present a statement of vote on the last five votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u314	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We proceed to the vote of the application submitted by the PSD, requesting the discharge of the Committee on Public Administration, Administrative Modernization, Decentralisation and Local Power, without a vote, for a period of 60 days, being this low of knowledge and acceptance of the representative and 1. the subscriber, of the Bill No 133 / XIV / 1. a ( Citizens) — The second amendment is made to the special career scheme of superior technicians in the areas of diagnosis and therapy — Decree-Law No 111 / 2017 of 31 August 2017, the first amendment to the legal regime of the career applicable to senior technicians in the areas of diagnosis and therapy, secondly designated TSDT, under the work contract regime — Decree-Law No 110 / 2017 of 31 August 2017, and the first amendment to the remuneration scheme applicable to the special career of senior technicians in the areas of diagnosis and therapy, as well as the rules for the transition of workers to this career, which regulates the first — Decree-Law No 25 / 2019 of February. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously, registering the absence of the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira.]] The bill therefore goes down to 13. the Commission. We will now vote together, demands, submitted by the authors of their legislative initiatives, requesting the discharge of the Committee on Public Administration, Administrative Modernization, Decentralization and Local Power, without voting for 60 days of Bill No. 462 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Valuation of the career of superior diagnostic and therapeutic technician and 463 / XIV / 1. a (BE) — Change the special career of superior technician in the areas of diagnosis and therapy, in order to value workers. [[Subject to the vote, they were adopted unanimously, registering the absence of the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira.]] Bills also go down to 13. the Commission. We will vote for draft resolution No 551 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government regulate the career of senior diagnostic and therapeutic technicians. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, the PCP, the PEN, the PEN, the CH, the IL and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and abstentions from the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We turn to the joint vote on draft resolutions Nos 559 / XIV / 1. a (BE), 560 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ), 562 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ), 563 / XIV / 1. a (IL) and 567 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP), all relating to the cessation of validity of Decree-Law No 27 / 2020 of 17 June amending the organic of coordination and regional development committees[ Parliamentary evaluations No 21 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ), 22 / XIV / 1. a (BE), 23 / XIV / 1 a ( PCP ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected in favour of BE, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the ENP, the CH and the IL and abstentions by the NAP and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues.]] With no objection, we will vote, in general, in the specialty and in the overall final vote, on Bill No 186 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Second amendment to the system of access to administrative and environmental information and reuse of administrative documents approved by Law No 26 / 2016 of 22 August, adapting the composition of the Administrative Documents Access Commission to the new system of incompatibilities provided for in the Statute of Deputies. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues, votes against BE and the CDS-PP abstention.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 556 / XIV / 1. a ( Committee on European Affairs) — Assessment of the report on « Portugal in the European Union, 2019 ». [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the PAN, the IL and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues, votes against the PCP and the ENP and abstentions to BE, the CDS-PP and the CH.]] Let's now vote on draft resolution No 566 / XIV / 1. a ( Committee on European Affairs) — Adoption by the Assembly of European initiatives considered as a priority for scrutiny under the European Commission's 2020 work programme. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PS, PSD, PAN and Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues, votes against the PCP and the ENP and abstained from BE, CDS-PP, CH and IL.]] We proceed to the general vote of Bill No 456 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Extends the deadline for distance communication by means of meetings of local authorities and inter-municipal authorities, making the fifth amendment to Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN, CH and Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and PCP, ENP and IL abstentions.]] We have moved on to the vote, in the specialty, on this same bill. Let us begin by voting on Article 1. the draft law. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN, CH and Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and PCP, ENP and IL abstentions.]] We will now vote on a request by the PSD to withdraw its proposal for an amendment to Article 3. the Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March, as set out in Article 2. the draft law.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u315	Madam President, there is no need to vote on this request.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u316	In any case, the request must be voted on.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u317	It is the right of the proposing party to withdraw the proposal. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u318	I am informed that the proposer withdraws the amendment. We then turn to the special vote on the PS proposal for an amendment to Article 3. the Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March, as set out in Article 2. the draft law.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u319	I call on you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u320	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u321	Madam President, we have made a request for this amendment to be voted on by points.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u322	Madam Member, I have no such requirement.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u323	The request has been distributed to the President. We got him.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u324	Mr President, the request is to request that Article 3 (6) be voted on separately. the Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March, contained in the proposed amendment of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u325	If there is no objection, then let us begin by voting Article 3 ( 1 ) to ( 5 ). the Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March, proposed by PS. [[Subject to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN, IL, CH and non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and PCP and ENP abstentions.]] [[They are as follows: 1 — Until 31 December 2020, they may be carried out by videoconferencing or other digital means or at the appropriate distance, as well as by joint modalities combining the face-to-face format with distance means, the meetings of the deliberative and executive bodies of local authorities and inter-municipal entities and their conferences of representatives, committees and working groups. 2 — Compulsory public holding meetings shall be recorded and placed on the electronic site of the Authority, and may still be transmitted live by the Internet or another channel of communication which ensures its publicity if the Authority has means to do so. 3 — At meetings held by videoconferencing or where there are limitations on the lot of the room, the Authority shall ensure conditions for the intervention of the public provided for in Article 49(1) and (2) of the legal regime of local authorities, approved in Annex to Law No 75/2013 of 12 September, in particular by: 4 — In the event of a need for secret balloting proceedings, a panel meeting shall be convened, as soon as possible, on the date of the meeting at which the matter was discussed, at an appropriate location and with the establishment of a period of opening of the polls sufficient to ensure compliance with the rules of social distance and with the other guidelines of the existing Directorate-General for Health. 5 — In cases where public meetings take place at present, public access to the room may be limited in whole or in part to ensure compliance with the rules of social distance and with the other guidelines of the existing Directorate-General for Health, and publicity of the meeting shall be ensured through the means referred to in paragraph 2.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u326	We shall proceed to the vote on paragraph 6. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, CDS-PP, CH and IL, votes against the NAP and abstentions from BE, PCP, ENP and non-registered MP Cristina Rodrigues.]] [[It is as follows: 6 — Where there is no substantive technological means available to ensure compliance with paragraph 2, there shall be alternative ways of ensuring the advertising of meetings, in particular by affixing the minutes of the meeting by editing, within a maximum of 5 working days, and shall communicate the impossibility of compliance with the Directorate-General for Local Authorities.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u327	We shall proceed to the vote on the PS proposal, amending Article 3. or...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u328	Madam President, I think that is Article 3. the draft law, since we just voted on the proposed amendment of the PS. When a long time has passed, the vote on Article 2 shall be missed. the, but even the, is voted on, to the extent that we have voted on the whole of Article 3 numbers. Law No 1 -A / 2020. Article 3. the draft law, which concerns the entry into force, needs to be voted on.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u329	Let us then vote on Article 3. the draft law. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN, CH and Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and PCP, ENP and IL abstentions.]] Mrs. Members, I think we have not voted for Article 2. or...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u330	Madam President, we voted for Article 1. the draft law, then we voted on the proposal relating to Article 2. the draft law amending Article 3. the other law — from there the confusion — which was voted in full because we voted all the numbers, and now we have voted in Article 3. the draft law, which concerns the entry into force, therefore the vote was taken on the speciality.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u331	All right, Mr. Deputies. We will proceed to the overall final vote of Bill No 456 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Extends the deadline for distance communication by means of meetings of local authorities and inter-municipal authorities, making the fifth amendment to Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March, with the amendment adopted in the meantime. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN, CH and Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and PCP, ENP and IL abstentions.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u332	Madam President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u333	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u334	Mr President, it is in order to make an oral request, requesting the waiver of the final wording and the time limit for claim against inaccuracies in respect of Bill No 456 / XIV / 1. the, which we have just adopted in the overall final vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u335	Let us then vote on the request. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously, registering the absence of the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We now proceed to the general vote on the Bill No 43 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Strengthen taxpayer guarantees and procedural simplification. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PAN and Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and PCP, CDS-PP, ENP, CH and IL.]] The general vote of Bill No. 465 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Addition to the Code of Procedure and Tax Procedure by introducing the fiscal conciliation process. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the ENP were rejected, votes against the CDS-PP, the PAN and the IL and abstentions from the PSD, the CH and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 548 / XIV / 1. a (IL) — Transparency and balance in the relationship between the State and the taxpayer. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the ENP, votes against the CDS-PP, the PAN, the CH, the IL and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and the abstention of the PSD.]] The general vote on the Proposal for a Law No 44 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Transposing Directive ( EU ) 2018 / 1808, of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 November 2018 on the provision of audiovisual media services. [[Subject to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of the PS and the CDS-PP, votes against the PCP, the ENP and the CH and abstentions against the PSD, BE, PAN, IL and non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues.]] We are now voting on a request by the PS for a discharge from the Committee on Labour and Social Security, without a 60-day vote of the Proposal for a Law No 45 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Authorizes the Government to legislate on board fishing vessels and the activity of seafarers on board ships by transposing Directives ( EU ) 2017 / 159 and 2018 / 131. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously, registering the absence of the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We turn to the general vote on the Proposal for a Law No 46 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Defines the objectives, priorities and guidelines for criminal policy for the biennium 2020 - 2022. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted, with a vote in favour of the PS, the PAN and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues, votes against the BE, the PCP, the ENP and the CH and with abstentions from the PSD, the CDS-PP and the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u336	Madam President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u337	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u338	Mr President, it is to ask the Bureau about the conduct of the work, strictly.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u339	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u340	Mr President, I would like to suggest that in each vote I also ask who votes in favour or, at least, mention how the parties voted, otherwise it may cause some confusion in the final registration of the meaning of each party's vote. Madam President, when you see that you have a majority, you no longer mention the last vote that is missing. But it is always appropriate to say: against, abstention and in favour and to record all the points of vote. This has already happened in two subsequent votes, in which no mention has been made.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u341	That's right, sir. As you will point out who voted against and who abstained, the Bureau deduces that the others vote in favour. I thought, except for parts, everyone understood.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u342	Today, we understand. For the year, I don't know!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u343	I shall turn to all the points of vote. We shall move on to the general vote on the Bill No 49 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Promotes the simplification of various administrative procedures, including local authorities, and introduces amendments to the Code of Administrative Procedure. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PAN and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and abstentions from the PSD, BE, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the ENP, the CH and the IL.]] The general vote on the Bill No 48 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Establishs the tax regime of UEFA Champions League 2019 / 2020 competition organizers and extends the tax exemption on value added in intra-Community transmissions and acquisitions of goods necessary for the fight against COVID-19 disease. [[Subject to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of the PS, votes against BE, PAN, CH and non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and abstentions from the PSD, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the ENP and the IL.]] We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 199 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Sixth amendment to Decree-Law No 96 / 89 of 28 March establishing the international register of Madeira vessels ( MAR ). [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, CDS-PP and IL, votes against BE and abstentions from the PCP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues.]] The general vote of Bill No. 221 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — The ninth amendment to Decree-Law No 96/89 of 28 March establishing the international register of Madeira vessels. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of PS, PSD and CDS-PP, votes against BE and abstentions from the PCP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues were adopted.]] We proceeded to the joint vote of the requests submitted by the authors of their diplomas, requesting the discharge of the Committee on Public Administration, Administrative Modernization, Decentralisation and Local Power, without voting for 45 days of Bill No 455 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Clarifies the scheme in which workers of the assigning entity are integrated into the transferee entity within the framework of Article 244 ( 4 ). the General Law on Public Works, as annexed to Law No 35 / 2014 of 20 June, and 467 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Strengthens the guarantees of the employees of the assigning entity by making the tenth amendment to the General Law on Public Works, as annexed to Law No 35 / 2014 of 20 June. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously, registering the absence of the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira.]] The general vote of Bill No. 226 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Amendment No 1 / 2001 to the Organic Law of 14 August 2001 which regulates the election for local authorities. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PSD, votes against BE, CDS-PP and PAN and abstentions against PS, PCP, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues were adopted.]] We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 227 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Eighth amendment to Law No 19 / 2003 of 20 June ( Law on the Financing of Political Parties and Electoral Campaigns ) and third amendment to Law No 2 / 2005 of 10 January ( Law on the Organization and Operation of the Entity for Political Accounts and Financing ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes in favour of the PSD, votes against the PAN and IL and abstentions against PS, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PEV, CH and non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues.]] We will generally vote for Bill No 235 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Other Act No. 19 / 2003 of 20 June ( Law on the Financing of Political Parties and Election Campaigns ), eliminating the benefit of municipal property tax exemption ( IMI) for political parties. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the PSD, the PCP and the ENP were rejected and votes against the BE, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the CH, the IL and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues.]] We also generally vote for Bill No 240 / XIV / 1. a ( IL) — Eliminates the tax benefits of political parties and reduces the value of public subsidies ( eighth amendment to the Political Party Financing Act, Law No 19 / 2003 of 20 June ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the PSD, the PCP and the ENP were rejected, votes against the CH, the IL and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and abstains from BE, the CDS-PP and the PAN.]] The general vote of Bill No. 241 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — The eighth amendment is made to Law No 19 / 2003 of 20 June by introducing measures for fiscal justice and equal treatment. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the PSD, the PCP and the ENP were rejected and votes against the BE, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the CH, the IL and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues.]] We proceed to the general vote of Bill No. 248 / XIV / 1. a ( NAP) — Revoks tax benefits allocated to political parties, decreases the limits of election campaign expenditure and restores limits of fund-raising revenue ( eighth amendment to Law No 19 / 2003 of 20 June ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the PSD, the PCP, the CDS-PP and the ENP were rejected, votes against the NAP, the IL and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and abstains from BE and CH.]] We will generally vote for Bill No. 259 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Reduces public funding to political parties and electoral campaigns. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the PSD were rejected in favour of the PCP, the ENP, the CH, the IL and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and abstains from BE, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] We now vote, in general, the Bill No. 457 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Fourth amendment to the Legal Regime of Parliamentary Investigations, approved by Law No 5 / 93 of 1 March, introducing the mandatory participation of civil society persons in parliamentary committees of inquiry. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the CDS-PP and the ENP were rejected, votes against the PSD, the CH and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and abstentions from the NAP and the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u344	Madam President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u345	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u346	Madam President, it is only to declare that I shall present a statement of vote on this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u347	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u348	Madam President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u349	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u350	Madam President, it is also to inform the Bureau that I will make a statement of vote on this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u351	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We proceed to the general vote of Bill No 458 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Extends the Parliamentary Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Deputies and, in its place, establishes the Council for Transparency and the Statute of Deputies, making the tenth amendment to the Statute of Deputies, approved by Law No 7 / 93 of 1 March, and the first amendment to Law No 52 / 2019 of 31 July, which approves the regime of the exercise of functions by holders of political positions and high public positions. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the ENP and the IL, votes against the PSD and the CH and the abstention of the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues.]] We will generally vote for Bill No. 459 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Fifth amendment to Law No 43 / 90 of 10 August ( Exercise of the Right to Petition ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV and Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and PS, CH and IL abstained.]] We will generally vote for Bill No. 460 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Third amendment to Law No 43 / 2006 of 25 August on the monitoring, assessment and delivery by the Assembly of the Republic in the process of building the European Union. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PSD were adopted against BE, CDS-PP, PAN, CH, IL, Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and PS Member Luís Capoulas Santos and PS, PCP and ENP abstentions.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u352	Madam President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u353	Mr. Pedro Rodrigues, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u354	Madam President, it is only to record that I will present a statement of vote on this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u355	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u356	Madam President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u357	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u358	It is for the same purpose, Madam President, i.e. to announce that I will deliver a statement of vote on the vote that has just taken place.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u359	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We will vote for draft resolution No 543 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — First amendment to the Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic No 210 / 2019 of 20 September approving the Code of Conduct of Deputies to the Assembly of the Republic. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the NAP, the ENP and the non-registered MEP Cristina Rodrigues were rejected, votes against the PSD and abstentions from the CH and the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u360	Madam President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u361	Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u362	Madam President, it is to announce that we will present a written statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u363	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We will generally vote for Bill No. 466 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Strengthens the rights of participation in the legislative initiatives of citizens by amending Law No 17 / 2003 of 4 June 2003. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the PAN, the ENP, the IL and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues, the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and the abstention from the CH.]] We will generally vote for Bill No. 471 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Amend the Annex to Law No 52 / 2019 of 31 July by harmonizing the content of the Single Declaration of Income, Heritage, Interests, Incompatibilities and Impediments with the respective form. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and the PSD, the CDS-PP, the CH and the IL.]] We will generally vote for Resolution No 537 / XIV / 1. a (BE) — Recommends support for LGBTI associations and collectives in the context of the epidemic crisis. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues, the votes against the CDS-PP and the CH and the PS and IL abstentions.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u364	Madam President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u365	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u366	Madam President, it is to inform that the Socialist Party's bank will present a declaration of vote on the draft resolution which has now been voted on.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u367	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We will vote for draft resolution No 494 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Free distribution of menstrual health products. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the CDS-PP were rejected in favour of BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and abstentions from PSD, CH and IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u368	Madam President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u369	Ask for the floor to what effect, Mrs. Member?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u370	Madam President, it is to inform that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u371	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We will vote for draft resolution No 495 / XIV / 1. a (BE) — Measures for early diagnosis and treatment of endometriosis. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and the CDS-PP abstention.]] We will vote for the Resolution Project No 519 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government do not slaughter 31 rats and promote co-existence of uses in the construction of student residence in Porto. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and IL were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, ENP and non-registered MEP Cristina Rodrigues and PSD, CDS-PP and CH.]] We will vote for draft resolution No 493 / XIV / 1. a ( Member not registered Joacine Katar Moreira ) — Recommends emergency support to the Government to strengthen social action and student housing in higher education in the context of the current pandemic crisis caused by the SARS-CoV-2 virus. As required by Mrs Joacine Katar Moreira, we will vote on the points of this draft resolution separately. Let us begin by voting on point 1. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected in favour of BE, CDS-PP, PAN, IL and non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and PCP, ENP and CH abstentions.]] We shall vote on point 2. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD, CDS-PP and CH were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and the abstention of the IL.]] We shall vote on point 3. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP, CH and IL and votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues were rejected.]] We shall vote on point 4. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CH and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, PAN, ENP and MP not registered Cristina Rodriguese the abstention of the CDS-PP.]] We shall vote on point 5. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP, the IL and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodriguese abstained from the CH.]] We shall generally vote on draft resolution No 136 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Expands the supply of programme services in TDT. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the PAN, the ENP, the IL and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and abstentions from the PSD, the CDS-PP and the CH.]] We are going to vote, in general, on draft resolution No 523 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Extension of the supply of terrestrial digital television software services ( TDT ). [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN, CH, IL and non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and PCP and ENP abstentions.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u372	Madam President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u373	Mrs Paula Santos, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u374	Madam President, it is to announce that we will deliver a statement of vote on our vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u375	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We will vote for the Resolution Project No 512 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government strengthen the epidemiological surveillance of COVID-19 at national borders. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CDS-PP, the NAP, the CH and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodriguese abstains from BE, the PCP, the ENP and the IL.]] We will vote for draft resolution No 552 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — By controlling air transport that responds to the containment of the pandemic and the recovery of tourism. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CDS-PP and the CHe abstains from BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP, the IL and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u376	Madam President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u377	Mrs Paula Santos, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u378	Madam President, it is to announce that we will deliver a statement of vote on our vote on these last two votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u379	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We shall vote, in a global final vote, on the final text submitted by the Committee on Economics, Innovation, Public Works and Housing on Bills Nos 366 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Creates the system of support for the resumption and dynamization of the activity of dealers and companies of roaming diversity, in the context of the response to the epidemic of COVID-19, 431 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Measures to support fun and catering travelling companies and 432 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Creates a special incentive scheme for the activity developed by fairs and markets. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, ENP and CH and with abstentions from PAN, IL and non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues.]] We shall vote, in a global final vote, on the final text submitted by the Committee on Economics, Innovation, Public Works and Housing on draft resolutions Nos 464 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Establishment of a possible committee to monitor the implementation of the response measures to the epidemic of COVID-19 and 468 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Creates a possible Commission to monitor the process of economic and social recovery. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, CDS-PP, PAN, CH, IL and Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and Abstaining from BE, PCP and ENP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u380	We shall proceed to the comprehensive final vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on Agriculture and the Sea on draft resolutions Nos 506 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends to the Government an extraordinary set of support measures to the agricultural sector as a result of adverse climate phenomena in the North and Central regions, 513 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of measures to minimise the damage found in the fruit and agricultural sector in the face of extreme atmospheric conditions on 31 May in the Central and North of the country, 514 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Support for producers in the North and Centre regions affected by the seasons of 29 and 31 May, 518 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends urgent support to producers affected by extreme weather events and promotion of diversified agricultural production systems and 536 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recommends to the Government support for farmers affected by the end of May weather in the Central and Northern regions of the country. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the PEV, the CH and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and the abstention of the IL.]] We shall now proceed to the comprehensive final vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on the Environment, Energy and Planning of the Territory on draft resolutions Nos 448 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government promote active means of transport during and after the crisis of COVID-19, 452 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Guarantee for increased supply of public transport at the time of defination and acceleration of the implementation of the national strategy for the use of bicycle, 499 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends the Government to encourage the planning of mobility and urbanism, during and after COVID, for the resilience of Portuguese towns and cities, and 505 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen State incentives for the use of bicycles. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and the PCP, the CH and the IL.]] We shall, in general, vote on the replacement text submitted by the Education, Science, Youth and Sport Committee on Bill No 440 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Approves a set of exceptional and temporary measures to safeguard the rights of workers and students of public higher education. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the PEN, the PEN, the CH, the IL and the Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We shall now proceed to the vote on the assumption, by the plenary, of the indexary votes carried out, in the speciality of the Commission, of that replacement text. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously, registering the absence of the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira.]] The overall final vote on the replacement text follows. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the PEN, the PEN, the CH, the IL and the Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and the PSD and the CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u381	Madam President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u382	Is it for what purpose, Member of the Commission?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u383	Madam President, it is only to give the indication that, having this replacement text been approved, we withdraw our Bill No. 392 / XIV / 1. a — Extraordinary mechanism for the regularization of debts for non-payment of propines in public higher education institutions. Probably the NAP will do the same with regard to Bill No. 425 / XIV / 1. a — Creates an extraordinary mechanism for the regularization of debt due to non-payment of propines in public higher education institutions as a response to COVID-19.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u384	I wonder if the NAP also withdraws its initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u385	Yes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u386	Thus, the Drafts of Law n. The 392 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) and 425 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN). We shall then proceed, in general, to the vote on the replacement text, presented by the Committee on Education, Science, Youth and Sport, on Bills Nos 392 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Extraordinary mechanism for the regularization of debts for non-payment of propines in public higher education institutions and 425 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Creates an extraordinary mechanism of debt regularization for non-payment of propines in public higher education institutions as a response to COVID-19. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously, registering the absence of the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We now vote on the assumption by the plenary of the indexary votes in the speciality of that replacement text within the Commission. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, ENP, CH, IL and non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and the CDS-PP abstention.]] The following is the overall final vote of the same replacement text. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously, registering the absence of the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira.]] Before we proceed to the votes that have just been put to the vote, I inform you that the polls for the elections that are taking place may be closed, since all the Members who have been registered have already been voted on. I'm asking the ladies now. Members returning to page 8 of the script to proceed to the vote on Article 3. -A of Law No 4 - B / 2020, as set out in Article 3. o Law No 34 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ). Let's vote. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PAN, IL and Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and PCP, CDS-PP, ENP and CH.]] We now vote on Articles 5. a and 10. the one of the same Law. [[Subject to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and CDS-PP and IL abstentions.]] The vote on Article 10 shall follow. the Law No 6 / 2020 of 10 April, as set out in Article 4. o Law No 34 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ). We can vote together on paragraphs 1, 2 and 3?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u387	Madam President, I had asked for them to be voted separately.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u388	So let's vote them separately. Let us begin by voting on paragraph 1. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, ENP and Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and CDS-PP, CH and IL abstentions.]] We now vote on paragraph 2. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PAN and Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues, votes against the PCP and the ENP and abstentions to the CDS-PP, CH and IL.]] We shall now vote on paragraph 3. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, PAN and Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and Abstaining from BE, PCP, CDS-PP, ENP, CH and IL.]] We shall now vote on the proposal for an amendment to the PAN of Article 4. the Law No 6 / 2020 of 10 April, as set out in Article 4. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the PCP, the ENP and the IL were rejected, votes against the BE, the NAP and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and abstentions from the PSD, the CDS-PP and the CH.]] The vote is followed by the vote on the proposal for an amendment to the CFP of Article 10. that of the same law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the PSD and the PAN were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP and the ENP and abstentions against the CDS-PP, the CH, the IL and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues.]] Mrs. Members, let us vote on Article 5. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, PAN and ENP and CDS-PP, CH, IL and non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues.]] Finally, we shall proceed to the overall final vote of the Bill No 34 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — prolongs the deadline for an exceptional scheme of measures applicable to local authorities under the COVID-19 pandemic and amends the rules on indebtedness of local authorities. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PAN and Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and PCP, CDS-PP, ENP, CH and IL.]] We have therefore concluded our votes. Mrs Inês de Sousa Real had asked to make an oral vote on the general vote of Bill No 257 / XIV / 1. a. However, in the general vote there is no oral vote statements. This happens only in global final votes, motions of censure, confidence or rejection of the Government Programme, in accordance with Article 155 ( 3 ). the Rules of Procedure. Therefore, Mrs Deputy, you may make a written statement of vote if you so agree.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u389	If it is impossible to do so orally, I will do so, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-10.u390	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of our agenda today. The next plenary session will be on 22 July, Wednesday, at 3 p.m. and the agenda will be the debate on the state of the nation. I thank everyone for their collaboration in this difficult stage of voting, and I also wish everyone a good rest of the day and a good weekend. The session is closed. [[It was 14 hours and 33 minutes.]]
