ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-06.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, Mrs. Officers of authority. Let's start the plenary session. [[It was 16 hours and 2 minutes.]] Before we enter the agenda, Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha has several announcements to make to the House. You have the floor, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-06.u2	Good afternoon to all and to all. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I am going to announce that you have given the Bureau the draft decree of the President of the Republic concerning the request for authorisation of the statement of emergency state. They also entered the Bureau and were admitted to the following legislative initiatives: Draft Constitutional Review No 5 / XIV / 2. a ( IL), Bills Nos 577 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ), 578 / XIV / 2. a ( BE), 579 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) and 580 / XIV / 2. a ( BE), Resolution Projects Nos 747 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ), 748 / XIV / 2. a ( BE), 749 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ), 750 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) and 751 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) and Parliamentary Appreciation No 33 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ).
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-06.u3	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the Secretary will now take note of an opinion from the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-06.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mr Nuno Miguel Carvalho ( PSD ) to give written testimony as a witness in the court proceedings.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-06.u5	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the CH was recorded.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I take this time to say that we already have a quorum for discussion to proceed to the vote at the end of the debate, as the agenda shows. 125 Members are present and the thing is progressing, as you know. Members who have not yet been able to register may do so until the end of the vote. I must say that at the moment 133 Members are already registered, so I would like to thank the leadership of the parliamentary groups for taking appropriate precautions in accordance with the new rules adopted by this Parliament. 135 Members are now registered. Meanwhile, Secretary Maria da Luz Rosinha will take note of another opinion from the same Commission. Please, Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-06.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the request of the Administrative and Fiscal Court of Porto, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mr Eduardo Teixeira ( PSD ) to make a written statement in proceedings before that court.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-06.u7	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] At this time, 144 Members are already registered, so there is no problem as to the validity of the vote to be taken at the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-06.u8	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-06.u9	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-06.u10	Mr President, to speak to the Bureau about the conduct of the work.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-06.u11	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-06.u12	Mr President, I would just like to ask you whether you have any information or reasons for the fact that, as much as I know for the first time that we have discussed an emergency state, the Government is not represented by the Prime Minister, as in our view it would make all the sense. I wonder if you have any information about this. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-06.u13	Mr President, I have no information or interpretation, but surely the government, represented here at a high level, may have. Therefore, the Government may respond to its request rather than the Bureau. Mr. Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs asked for the floor. Please, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-06.u14	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Member, the Government is represented in this debate by the Minister of Internal Administration, who is responsible for coordinating the state of emergency... [[No, no!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-06.u15	... and that you have been present in this Parliament in all the debates in the state of emergency report. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-06.u16	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I think the question was clear and the answer is clear, and now everyone will make their political interpretation. At this time, we have 157 registered Members and we can therefore comply with the agenda of this session and even the final vote. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, this plenary has as its sole point the debate on the request for authorization of the state of emergency, following the message addressed yesterday to Parliament by the President of the Republic, accompanied by the draft presidential decree by which he intends to decide the state of emergency throughout the national territory, between 0 hours on 9 November and 23 hours on 23 November and 59 minutes on 23 November, without prejudice to any renewals under the law, on the basis of the verification of a situation of public calamity and the need to adopt measures to contain the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic. for the fourth time in its history and in the short space of eight months, the Assembly of the Republic is called to appreciate a request of this nature and gravity, reflecting the huge challenge that consists, in Portugal and the whole world, the containment of the pandemic of the COVID-19, which, as we know, is far from being overcome. And I am speaking of conditions for weighting which is due to the Assembly of the Republic as a sovereign body, to whom it is responsible to authorize or not the declaration of the state of emergency. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, even before starting the debate and giving the floor to the first speaker, I remind the House that this is the first plenary session after the day of national mourning in honour of the victims of the COVID-19 pandemic, marked on 2 November, a day when the Portuguese and Portuguese expressed their grief in the face of the tragic loss of lives caused by the COVID-19 pandemic. More than 2700 are already the lives inherited by this disease throughout the country. It is also in honor and respect of all those who have lost their lives, directly or indirectly, because of this pandemic and in solidarity with their relatives and friends that I ask us to spend 1 minute silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government will then begin the debate on the request for authorization of the state of emergency declaration. As is the norm, the follow-up of the interventions will be of the party most voted for the least voted, with the government speaking at the end. Mr Pedro Delgado Alves, of the PS Parliamentary Group, spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-06.u17	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Assembly of the Republic is today called again to authorize the declaration of the state of emergency, requested by the President of the Republic, at a time when we face one of the most critical phases of the stormy crossing that the COVID-19 brought to all corners of the world. Portugal and Europe today face the hardness of the numbers of the second wave in the evolution of the pandemic, which unfortunately cannot dispense with the adoption of more robust measures. The next few weeks will be particularly hard and difficult, with a significant increase in new cases, much greater requirement for health professionals who are on the front line — for whom all words of gratitude and recognition will always be insufficient — and an added pressure on the functioning of services essential to life in society. The context is, however, very different from the one we live in March and April, when, for the first time in the history of our democracy, it was necessary to make the declaration of the state of emergency and adopt particularly harsh and measures leading to a general confinement of all. Today we have greater response capacity in the SNS (National Health Service), with more fans, more intensive care beds, more testing capacity, more speed in the response of the SNS 24 line, more health professionals. Society has adapted itself, within what is possible, to live with the pandemic, accessing forms of support made available by public services. The individual behaviors of most citizens were demonstrating the interiorization that responsibility and individual combat is of each. Despite the doubts we still have about all the consequences of the sequelae of COVID-19, even in less serious cases, we know better today how it is transmitted and how it can be addressed by COVID-19 and unfortunately also confirm lethality in weaker groups of the population. Above all, we have learned from what went well, from what went wrong, from what needs to be improved, and we therefore present ourselves in this debate, all the representatives of the Portuguese, with this awareness of the importance of what we are discussing today. Although they have so far been sufficient to support the adoption of measures and the management of the crisis, the Basics of Civil Protection Act, the Health Bases Act and the Public Health Surveillance Act, they have not been designed with this specific purpose in mind. The reflection and debate on the construction of a solution as long as it takes account of the complexity of a pandemic, which must be approved by Parliament, must indeed be put into effect,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... but it will not be concrete in the course of time that we need to respond immediately and hence the need for today's debate, hence the need for the state of emergency declaration. The state of emergency was indispensable, in March and April, to enable us to respond to the initial struggle of the pandemic, make time to strengthen the SNS and its response and prepare public services and society. What is presented to us today by the President of the Republic in the application for authorisation is different. It focuses on issues that are inseparably linked to the direct response to the pandemic, in a more limited framework of restrictions on fundamental rights, but more precise in what is essential at this time: restrictions on freedom of movement, in order to reduce the risk of infection and to allow prevention measures to be carried out; the possibility of mobilizing resources, means and facilities for health care, private and cooperative care, necessary for the treatment of patients with COVID-19 or for the maintenance of other care activities; the possibility of mobilizing workers to support health authorities in conducting epidemiological surveys and contact checks; and, finally, the possibility of imposing body temperature control or conducting diagnostic tests at COVID-19 for the purposes of access to certain sites. In all cases, and as is the case with the requirements of the Constitution and the law, the implementation of the state of emergency, as proposed to us, is particularly based on a linkage to proportionality in all its aspects, and it should be noted, in particular, that: the implementation of the state of emergency by the Government must meet the different levels of risk in the national territory; the implementation of the state of emergency must adjust the periods of the day or week in which the restrictions on movement are justified; and the implementation of the state of emergency must take into account the characteristics of the sites and services which may be in need of restriction or demonstration of testing to be ensured access. In short, what is proposed, in view of this clear need for measures, is a framework of possibilities that are appropriate to achieve the purposes to which they are proposed, balanced in the sacrifices that require the population, decisive and understandable by the people and endowed with reasonableness in the context we are going through. Let us not be mistaken: we are faced with a difficult task of balance in the design of these measures, where priority is given to the protection of health, especially the most vulnerable, and to the defence of the capacity of the SNS, while avoiding the greatest damage to the economic activity of businesses, employment and income of families, whose social costs are equally harsh and serious. The debate will certainly show that some understand that these measures are excessive, others are flawed, and that is precisely where the difficulty and balance, which, in our understanding, is reflected in what is proposed to us, is revealed. by debating the state of emergency once again, I am sure that the overwhelming majority of this House does so seriously and convincingly of the goodness of its arguments to approve or reject the proposal of the President of the Republic. Whatever the outcome, it will always be done within the framework of the Constitution of the Republic, within the framework of democratic institutions, which are preserved and guaranteed by this declaration of the state of emergency, because the Constitution of April is resilient and will be able to respond to the challenge. [[P.S.'s applause.]] however, we must not lose sight of the fact that, in addition to the normal functioning of the institutions, the ability to overcome the moment we go through as a community will also depend on the ability to strengthen the ties of solidarity between citizens and citizens and their institutions to overcome together the difficult challenge of the months ahead, refusing to create cleavages that go beyond the democratic dissent, refusing to encourage fear and to feed discord and uncertainty and refusing to seek to take advantage of the difficulties that we all must face together. Let us not take a second reading for a moment of what I am saying: all parties, especially those of the opposition, have the right to dissent, criticism, alternative proposal and democratic space and must bring it to Parliament, which will vote for it. But unfortunately, because we live in times of growing populisms and threats to the democratic system and to republican and humanist values, we must affirm at such a serious moment as the decree of the state of emergency, and we will do so, with respect for the Constitution, for the law and for the fundamental rights of citizens. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-06.u18	For an intervention by the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Rui Rio has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-06.u19	Mr President — I was going to say 'Mr. Prime Minister", but he is not present—, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On several occasions, I have had the opportunity to say that in democracy, rights, freedoms and guarantees must be hierarchical. We cannot fall into fundamentalism — not to say "in ridicule" — but to temporarily abdicate a minor right in the name of a greater right. The vitality of democracy is also due to its ability to rationally defend the main values of our society. It is a matter of common sense, but it is also a matter of democratic effectiveness. The country's health and economic situation is now more sensitive than it was eight months ago. The number of new infections per day is substantially higher and therefore more difficult to contain. The number of people lacking hospital treatment is, therefore, greater, putting the National Health Service under enormous pressure and facing the possibility of not being able to give a complete response to our overall needs. We need to be able to drastically reduce the rate of disease expansion in order to prevent hospitals from having to decide who they can treat and who they have to leave behind. The circumstances therefore require that the country take the most appropriate measures to combat the disease, which is the same as saying to protect the lives of all of us, particularly the elderly. Mr President, the sense of state and solidarity with the most vulnerable do not give the PSD any room for manoeuvre for sterile rhetoric or biased use of discontent resulting from the difficult situation we are experiencing. It is the exact time for policymakers to assume their responsibilities above all, especially without taking care to measure the popularity or unpopularity of the measures that the circumstances impose upon us. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-06.u20	It is up to Parliament to provide the Executive with the legal instruments he needs in the context of combating a common enemy and, consequently, to exercise democratic control over its use, with due proportionality. The decree which Mr President of the Republic proposes to this House therefore deserves our approval. It allows the Government to take the measures which, at the moment, are indispensable for the pursuit of our national objective, in particular in terms of the mobilization of means and the strengthening of social distance. Having declared the state of emergency, the government will be responsible for its use, which is intended to be selective, so that, in defence of public health and the national economy, it is equally what is equal and differently what is different. [[PSD applause.]] The growing weakness of our economic and social situation requires the use of these restrictions only to the strict extent necessary. If it is true that we have to defeat COVID, we can also never forget the very serious economic and social consequences that they have. It is up to the government to respond at the right time to the demands of the situation and to find the right balance between the necessary confinement and the limits of our economic and social capacity. However, it is up to each and every one of us to strictly comply with the rules of individual and collective behavior, which are the first commandment of the fight we are all blocking. I am sure that, with competence, rationality and discipline, Portugal will once again be able to respond appropriately to the threat we face. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-06.u21	For an intervention by the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Catarina Martins now speaks.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-06.u22	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With nearly 2500 COVID patients in hospital and more than 300 in intensive care units, the National Health Service today suffers a higher pressure than it has experienced in the first wave of the pandemic. In April, we reached a maximum of 1300 boarding schools and 270 in intensive care, but we have been overcoming these numbers since October. They have been mobilized, of course, more means for the emergency, but, essentially, they are responding to this huge wave the same health units and the same professionals who have been doing it for eight months. Doctors, nurses, senior diagnostic and therapeutic technicians, superior health technicians, technical assistants and operating assistants of the SNS accumulate millions of extraordinary hours, largely unpaid, and continue to perform their duties every day. Meanwhile, there is a country that feels helpless, because it lacks consultation with the family doctor, because the surgery was once again demarcated, because the examination was delayed. Paradoxically, it is at a time when the SNS more works that their lack is also more felt. in the Left Block, we have for years defended the strengthening of the National Health Service. We fought for a law of bases to protect him. in the State budget for 2020, we ensured the end of its subordination and the hiring of more professionals. Tragically, the Government decided that, in time of pandemic, there were no conditions for the planned reinforcement and the number of doctors fell in the exact year in which there was agreement to increase. Is it still possible to do better? Surely, and strengthening the National Health Service is the priority for the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-06.u23	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-06.u24	But this pandemic requires an effort for which no health service, however strong—and Portuguese, with all its difficulties, is the strongest—was fully prepared. Therefore, we defend, soon in March, when the first state of emergency was decreed, that all existing health capacity in Portugal was integrated into the National Health Service. In fact, the Health Bases Act expressly states that, in an epidemic, private people are at the service of the State. The previous Basic Law, made by the right, already said the same, but between the market or health, the right has always chosen the market and, unfortunately, until now, the government has not had the courage to impose the public interest. While the professionals of the National Health Service were exhausted, the large private health groups, who closed emergencies, hospitals and clinics, sent patients with COVID to public hospitals, placed doctors and nurses in layoffs, these same large private health groups offered little support to the government in exchange for generous payments. Yesterday, at the hearing in Parliament, the Minister of Health said that private people have no answer for COVID patients — months of negotiation and, on the private side, only greed and irresponsibility. The statement of the state of emergency proposed by the President of the Republic to Parliament reinforces the instruments of the Government to place all the capacity installed in health in Portugal, including military, private and social, under the height of the National Health Service during the pandemic. The Government can do so without agreement and must do so. I should have done it by now. The Left Block will abstain from this vote. We have enabled the state of emergency for 15 days so that the government will not lack mechanisms to respond to the pandemic. We have made it possible because we have noted that all the abusive limitations of trade union rights and workers, which we have criticized in the past, have been removed from this decree. We finally make it possible because limitations on the right of movement should not be made by mere administrative authority. in the pandemic, there is no suspension of democracy. We will not, however, vote in favour because the authorisation we have been asked for is indefinite on matters such as compulsory collection, which we consider to be counterproductive in view of the data available. It is not explicable that you stop walking on the street at night who are forced to use metro and full buses during the day to go to work. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-06.u25	We will be very attentive to these 15 days and we reiterate our willingness to create alternatives to the state of emergency that will enable us to deal with a pandemic that is expected to extend for many months. We reject the banalization of the state of emergency and we alienate the absence of the Prime Minister in this debate, but we will not lack the construction of solutions for the control of the pandemic and the safeguarding of the National Health Service. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-06.u26	For an intervention by the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr João Oliveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-06.u27	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : The use of the state of emergency does not correspond to or is proportionate or appropriate to the measures that the country needs to face the difficult situation. The declaration of the state of emergency, proposed by the President of the Republic and which is currently being discussed and voted on, must be rejected for four essential reasons. First, because it disregards at all the first and main issue which is put to the country, which is that of defining the health security conditions that it is necessary to create in each area and sector so that national life can continue with the normality possible in the circumstances we live. Secondly, because it emphasises the deresponsibility of public authorities in favour of easy solutions for individual accountability and limitation of rights, freedoms and guarantees, in a context where political options fail. Thirdly, because the wave of fear and panic has been promoted on the mass scale, contributing to the multiplication of limitations to the exercise of individual or collective rights that have occurred in recent months, supported by the wrong idea — I stress, the wrong idea — that is the solution to the problems we face. Fourthly, because, in matters as relevant as access to health care, this statement of the state of emergency does not constitute the foundation that the Constitution requires to defend constitutional rights in a state of exception, but rather a road map to do the private business with public money on the pretext of the epidemic. The proof of each of these four elements is made by the evolution of the national situation, starting with health. The proposal for a state of emergency statement does not point to a single real impulse for the reinforcement of the SNS, but makes, without shame, the apology of the disease business. Even the legal possibility — which already existed and will continue to exist — of the request by the State of the private media is skilfully converted into a call for contracts that sign this business to increase the profits of the private economic groups operating in this area. What we should be discussing was the reinforcement of the SNS and its response capacity. Not only at the interruption of contagion chains, but also at the hospitalization of acute patients. Not only in response to patients with COVID-19, but also in other patients with other diseases that are not being diagnosed or treated on time. Not only in the investment in hospitals, health centers, equipment and other means, but also in the hiring of health professionals. Instead, we are discussing another state of emergency authorization that can cover restrictions on the exercise of rights. over the past few months, there have been situations of areas, sectors and events, public or private, in which it has been found that an effort has been made to organize and adapt to ensure that everything is carried out with conditions of health safety. We should be discussing precisely the enlargement of these examples. The questions that should be asked by political leaders, including the President of the Republic, were to know, in each area and sector, what conditions of health security must be created for national life to continue. What measures must be taken in a school, in a home, in public transport, in a theatre or in a cinema, in a restaurant or in a café, in a stadium or in a sports pavilion so that all this activity is essential to economic, social, cultural and sporting life? What measures must be taken to adapt spaces to properly receive students, viewers or customers? What measures to strengthen the number of buses and trains must be taken to reduce the number of passengers without leaving anyone without transport? And also know what investment is needed in public services and what support needs small businesses, collectives, small farmers, producers and dealers to develop their activity in these new conditions. Instead, the President of the Republic, at the request of the Government, asks the Assembly of the Republic to declare the state of emergency. It can be easier and more comfortable to move next to the discussion on the health conditions necessary for national life to continue. It can be noted that there are no bans on elections in schools and universities, to pretend that there are no suspended students for sharing the snack with colleagues, to hang their shoulders when hearing a report of workers forced to work longer hours for less pay. It may even be considered that « burns less hands» discuss health security, pushing for individual responsibility with the policy of « ban, limit and suspend ». The truth, ladies and gentlemen. Members and, above all, Mr. Members of the government, will the question always come after each dose of « ban, limit and suspend »: « then, and now what is it going to be, how can it be done? Do not keep on seeking. ” This is what it is important to do, with the necessary measures for health protection, and for all this it must be rejected the authorization to declare the state of emergency. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-06.u28	I now give the floor to Mr Telmo Correia of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-06.u29	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister — wherever he is — Mr President, Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, when we discuss the presidential decree for a new state of emergency there is an obvious first question: why are we here today, again, discussing the state of emergency? in the answer, we do not, of course, ignore that there is a second wave, that there are a high number of contagios and deaths and that this is not an exclusive Portuguese, it goes through Europe, until, contrary to what has been said to us, there was no "Portuguese miracle". But if you travel through Europe, it is no less true that in the management of the pandemic in our country, many mistakes have been made and there have been many contradictions, either by incapacity or by incompetence. The CDS, as a responsible party, never failed the country essentially, but also never ceased to exercise its critical obligation as an opposition party. What, then, are synthesizing in three, the main mistakes? First, the government was unable to anticipate or predict. The government did not anticipate what was coming there and it was clear that it was coming. And he says now he's going to hire more doctors, more nurses and extend the number of beds. Let's ask: now? Oh, my God! Now, what are we close to the limit and the red lines? Oh, my God! Isn't it obvious I should have done it before? in the famous expression of Girardin, sometimes attributed to De Gaulle, erroneously, « governing is predicting ». And when it's not anticipated, what you do is run after damage.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-06.u30	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-06.u31	Secondly, ideological obstinacy. From the outset, the Government did not ignore that a good solution would always be to take advantage of all installed capacity, i.e. to contract with the social sector, the cooperative sector and the private sector. Contractualize for COVID-19 and for the millions of consultations and thousands of surgeries that have yet to be done. He didn't. He didn't because he stubbornly chose ideology. Only now does it and still only through regional health administrations (ARS) and little. And the decree now presented to us comes, moreover, to say that it is proposed to use these resources, we hope that we will always agree. What seems to be clear is that the government, or part of it, by arrogance and ideological obstinacy, wanted to sell the idea of the absolute adequacy of the public, also seeking to please its radical left-wing partners and their dreams of doing, our country, a Cuba or a Venezuela, in Europe. Today we have seen this ideological obstinacy here well present.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-06.u32	He's got a fever!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-06.u33	Third mistake, successive inconsistencies. Since the beginning, we have seen one without end of contradictory or wrong messages. From the use of the mask, which was counterproductive and that no one should be masked for 25 April, until the Prime Minister told me that temperature control was unnecessary because it would be possible-CL to take paracetamol and no fever or power-CL would be fever for any other reason. We have arrived here today with the use of mandatory mask on the street and a state of emergency decree that precisely provides for temperature control. We went from eight to eighty, out of incompetence. And they were also — it must be said — passed wrong messages to the Portuguese, who were always more responsible than politicians themselves. It was the time of the politicians, during the afternoon, in fact of bathing, on their way from a beach to, later, at night, on their way to a show. This reality has happened, for the most part without real political scrutiny. Why? For three other reasons: first, because, unexpectedly, the information meetings in Infarmed ( National Medicines and Health Products Authority ) ended ; second, because the Assembly has diminished its ability to monitor, by reducing the debates and, by agreement between PSD and PS, ending the 15-year debates, but also, thirdly, with the argument that there can be no early elections — which I do not believe anyone has requested — because the head of the State has opted for a total harmony with the Executive, abdicating advisability of a requirement. Personally, I even think there was less demand and Dupond and Dupont the more between Belém and Saint Benedict. Nevertheless, and in conclusion, the CDS does not change its position and we do not fail with our vote on the essential issues. We do not adhere to unanimity and we do not cease to make the criticisms that we consider fair, but we do not fail the Portuguese when the situation is of great gravity and more measures are necessary. We are aware that these measures and this confinement, though limited, will bring more difficulties to the economy and therefore require a stronger response to support for companies. We'll be careful! In view of the gravity of the situation, we do not put ourselves with little ideological pruritus relevant when what is at stake is the health and life of so many Portuguese people. We are even the opposite of populisms capable of defending everything and its opposite—but mask, less mask. We are aware of the gravity of what we are facing. And if we do not stop making the relevant criticisms, it will not be by the CDS that those who govern us, at a time of obviously enormous difficulty, will no longer have the tools needed to respond to this emergency.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-06.u34	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-06.u35	The government does not deserve that pretext at all.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-06.u36	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-06.u37	I conclude, Mr President, by saying that our vote on this decree is in favour, especially in Portuguese, that, as I have said here, they have always been, and always, more responsible than those who rule us. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-06.u38	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr André Silva, of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-06.u39	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We all knew that the "new normal" caused by the COVID-19 would impose on us, with great probability, the discussion of a new state of emergency still during 2020. Unfortunately, the evolution of the epidemiological situation requires us to do it sooner than we all wanted. Citizens and citizens with the sense of civic duty have been facing various political decisions since March. When there were doubts about the imposition of a general confinement, a large majority of the population had become self-confined, being in telework and removing children from schools. It is obvious that, here or there, there have been isolated cases of less responsible behavior and that they have called into question public health, but we cannot confuse the tree with the forest. Therefore, the imposition of disproportionate restrictions on fundamental rights should not be seen as the magic wand that will put an end to the current worsening epidemiological situation. The problem has also been the inconsistencies of the Government and the President of the Republic and the ease with which it goes from the negationist discourse to the panic speech and the talk of the tight confinement to the speech of the « go home and consume». We need clarity, consistency and certainty in speech. They were to take necessary measures to prevent us from reaching the point where we are and to which the NAP has drawn attention. We have said that it is necessary to strengthen the human, financial and material resources of the National Health Service and to create an effective epidemiological surveillance system, something only possible through the significant strengthening of public health specialists. We warned of the high risk in public transport that, after defining, they returned to the old normal of the crowded carriages, without strengthening the frequency of transport or measures as simple as signaling places, in order to ensure the distance between passengers. We have warned of the need to take measures necessary not to leave behind those who are unprotected. We support the regulation of telework and the strengthening of the means of the Act ( Labour Conditions Authority ). at this moment, we inevitably run behind the damage. The state of emergency declaration is necessary to give legal certainty to the measures being taken, but its content could and should be distinct, more circumscribed and more proportionate. This decree gives the view that the virus spreads with a marked time and day and that, therefore, a mandatory collection should be imposed, which seems that the virus does not run from public transport, does not go to the workplace or may be removed with mere measurements of fever or with the carrying out of tests. This declaration does not solve transport problems, does not ensure that telework with rights is applied, does not protect companies, does not ensure the implementation of a rotating face-to-face work system, does not guarantee the appropriate conditions in university residences or the protection of teachers at risk. The way must be for the solution of these problems and shortcomings that have called into question public health and fundamental rights, not for measures of reduced effectiveness. We do not rest on the fact that, in the context of restrictions on the right to freedom and movement, there is no provision for safeguarding political rights, which is particularly worrying when presidential elections are approaching, which would not be understandable in democracy. Finally, as regards the civil requirement of public sector workers, or not, this declaration makes it wrong, from the outset because of its excessive openness, which allows the requirement for presenceal work in any function with the authorities and health services, doing so in terms that call into question the health of people in risk groups and public health itself, by opening the door to non-compliance with DGS (Direction-General of Health) rules on prophylactic isolation. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Member of the Government, Mr President, because this statement is not clear in the proportionality of the proposed fundamental rights restrictions; because it does not ensure an understandable balance between the measures imposed and the limitation of the risk of contamination; because it does not give the answers that the present moment requires, especially because it puts the burden and pesosity on citizens while dishonoring the responsibilities of the political power; because it has been done as far as the central block and also because the context is absolutely exceptional, perhaps the most exceptional of all, the NAP abstains-CL will vote on this statement of emergency state. However, we do not fail to call on the Government, on behalf of the national consensus necessary in these matters, which, in its implementation, alerts us to the concerns that we have raised and that, in future renewal of this state of emergency declaration, the Presidency of the Republic and the Government avoid the mistakes, the inconsistencies and shortcomings of what we are voting on today. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-06.u40	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr José Luís Ferreira of The Greens.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-06.u41	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: If, in the first state of emergency, The Greens, despite reservations about their need, have finally given the benefit of doubt with their abstention, today, The Greens have even more doubts and deep reservations about the need to use this mechanism again. These doubts and reservations are reinforced, from the outset, when we find that we continue without identifying any tangible contribution from the first statement of the state of emergency in the fight against the pandemic and also because we consider that the measures that are required today exempt the use of a mechanism as extreme as what we are now discussing. We well know that the health situation we live in and the proliferation of cases that continue to occur require the strengthening of urgent measures. Therefore, in view of the seriousness of the situation, it is imperative to continue and strengthen the containment measures. But one thing needs to be clarified, which has to be very clear: one thing is containment measures and another very different is the state of emergency. Confounding these two dimensions is a mistake that is important to counteract, especially if we do not want to deceive people. It is recalled that during last spring, the most important measures in this fight were taken out of the state of emergency, even before it was declared. I am referring to the closure of schools or the voluntary confinement of Portuguese. In fact, a recently disclosed mobility study clearly indicates that the Portuguese were once again voluntarily confined to their homes at levels recorded in May, without the need for any state of emergency declaration. Moreover, it is not the state of emergency that allows the government to give the necessary answers. In order to ensure that there is no lack of protective material for health professionals or beds for patients, to provide the National Health Service with more professionals or to strengthen their response capacity, the state of emergency is not required. In addition, in a situation like that, the declaration of the state of emergency carries another problem in the perspective of the Greens that arises when the state of emergency ends or when it is not renewed: from there people tend to internalize that it is already all right and it remains the perception that it is no longer necessary to take the rules so seriously. In view of all this, since for the Greens, it is not imperative that the measures which must be taken require coverage of the state of emergency—not being this, therefore, the only way—and since we regard the state of emergency as an end-of-line solution, the Greens will vote against. at a time when we all realize that the proposal will be approved, it would be very important for the state of emergency not to divert attention from the essential, i.e., the absolute need to strengthen the response, from the point of view of the strengthening of the National Health Service, which is already late, because there was a long time when the government should have agileized the competitive processes, both for the acquisition of technical means and for the hiring of health professionals. For this, no state of emergency is required. But it is also important to create the conditions so that people can effectively respect the rules. Just see how public transport works, where, even if they want, people cannot objectively comply with the rules of social distance. The same is true of schools. If we want to favour the present school, we need to guarantee the conditions for students to be able to comply with the rules. But for that, it is not necessary to declare the state of emergency. Finally, it is necessary to explain very well what measures are being taken and, for that reason, the Government does not need the state of emergency either. In fact, the Government cannot merely take action without such measures being accompanied by clear explanations of their importance and, above all, the reasons behind them or the reasons. If people do not understand the reasons for the measures imposed on them, it is more difficult to take them seriously. When it is said, for example, that people cannot join in the family but can go to the shows, it is necessary to explain that today, the current of contagion occurs more frequently in close contacts and that social distance is guaranteed in the shows. The same is true of the decision to close trade earlier. If trade is less open time, there will certainly be more possibility of agglomeration of people in these closed spaces during the period in which they are opened. People do not understand the usefulness of this measure in combating the pandemic, just because the government has not explained it. If the government does not properly explain the measures, people do not understand the reasons not only, but also their usefulness, and they naturally tend to devalue them, which is of course more difficult to assume as decisive. The Greens therefore vote against it, but they do not stop calling for the government to take these concerns into account and do not expect it to be the statement of the state of emergency which, by itself, will respond to the fight against the pandemic, because that will be like waiting for the train on the bus stop. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-06.u42	Before giving the floor to the next speaker, I should like to inform the House that there are 215 registered Members, thus meeting all the conditions for the subsequent votes at the end of the debate. You have the floor, Mr Ventura, for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-06.u43	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr “Emergency State Coordinator” : We do not know where Mr. Prime Minister is, but we know something. We know that we only have a new state of emergency because the government has failed to respond to the first major phase of the pandemic. We knew there was chaos in the health system and in most health centers, as we saw yesterday in Amadora and in Agualva-Cacém. We knew there were no vaccines in many health centers when the time of vaccination began. We knew there were no nurses, but there were 20,000 reformed nurses and so many other emigrants that the government decided to forget, now making an exceptional recruitment. We knew that there were ministers who had not read the reports, even when we were home, one of the biggest crises in our recent history. We have to save public health and we have to fight one of the greatest challenges in our history, but we do not have to die from cure and die from disease. We must try not to kill us and not distract Portugal from what it has to do. We must have timely and proportionate measures, but we cannot have absurd restrictions that kill the restoration, trade, events and all sectors that still employ an important part of Portuguese. We must have limitations of circulation, but not ridiculous limitations that destroy families and social life. We must have limitations, but not the pathetics that destroy trade, that kill jobs and that will eventually destroy our business fabric. when we are preparing to approve a new state of emergency, we have a duty to warn the government not to take pathetic measures again, such as to release prisoners, while the Portuguese are confined to their homes, i.e. to have bandits loose, while the Portuguese of good are locked up in their homes. While we have a new state of emergency, we must warn that it is an emergency state and not a state of expropriation to the private, in which companies, hospitals and entrepreneurs, who now see their life « shocked» by the State, in a state of socialist emergency, are recruiting, without payment. The name of this is « state of emergency », it is not « state of socialist destruction », because it has been in Portugal for many years now.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-06.u44	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-06.u45	I will finish, Mr. President. As one of the most decisive heights of our history approaches, we will look at this state of emergency differently. There is one thing we are going to say to the government: the arrival will not imperil this state of emergency, but will fight with all the forces so that the ideological ties that have led us here do not destroy Portugal nor take it to another 20 years of poverty, because this country does not deserve, the Portuguese deserve much more!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-06.u46	Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-06.u47	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Almost eight months after the discussion we had here on the declaration of the first state of emergency, we are again called upon to pass a presidential decree that essentially suffers from the same defects and perhaps the Prime Minister himself did not want to face this decree today. When the Liberal Initiative voted against the state of emergency renovations last April, we had an opportunity to explain why. At the time, we said that the decrees stepped several red lines with regard to the individual rights of the Portuguese, and that is happening again. The possibility of establishing mandatory collection under indefinite circumstances is a red line. To adopt this measure of dubious effectiveness, while ignoring what would be proven to be effective — as the use of the capacity of all Portuguese health system agents, for example — shows clearly that the government has the changed emergencies. The possibility of using resources, means and private, social or cooperative establishments, without limitation of sector, duration or procedure, is another red line. The ability to limit the movement of persons or to mobilize compulsively any person to, basically, any function is evident red lines. We also said at the time that the state of emergency was, above all, an instrument for the legal defence of the State to the detriment of citizens' rights. Indeed, this is now explicit in the first paragraph of the presidential decree, in which it refers, and I quote that «it is necessary to strengthen the legal certainty of the measures taken». Finally, as we said at the time — and we repeat now — we will not accept that restrictions on freedoms are decided on the basis of little specific and unclear diplomas which use too often expressions such as « in particular », « in particular », « preferably ». Freedoms are absolutely defended; they are not preferred. We believe that the decree provides for limitations on the rights and freedoms of individuals and collectives who are excessive and unjustified from the point of view of their effectiveness in combating the pandemic. And do it with an indefiniteness and a slightness with which we cannot deal. The Liberal Initiative will vote against the declaration of the state of emergency, because we refuse this slightity and, above all, cherish individual freedom and responsibility.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-06.u48	You now have the floor, for an intervention, Mrs Joacine Katar Moreira has not signed up.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-06.u49	Mr President, the restriction of rights, freedoms and guarantees and the relaxed decree of the state of emergency cannot be trivialized even when we need to ensure that the State has the exceptional means of intervention to combat COVID-19. But neither can we fight the COVID-19 by strengthening the capitalist system, which is implacable and causing various asymmetries, nor can it be normalized that there are thousands of individuals canned on buses, canned on trains, precisely because they are absolutely necessary for the survival of the capital. at the same time, we normalize some initiatives of some elites, which today show us that, after all, infections walk where the state is not with a more objective look. This is a state that trusts the discernment of the infirm and that completely distrusts the most vulnerable individuals. The fight against COVID-19 cannot also be concentrated, looking only at the increase in infections. We need to ensure the absolute strengthening of the SNS, the absolute strengthening of the incomes of health professionals, but also of all those who the State considers to be essential workers. And we need only to keep the focus on the idea that only the strengthening of democracy is that it can effectively guarantee us the effectiveness in combating COVID-19.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-06.u50	You have the floor, for one speech, Mrs.Cristina Rodrigues did not register.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-06.u51	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by thanking all the professionals in the front line for the persistence and work and also all the Portuguese who daily strive to make their lives normal, but also with the care that the pandemic caused by COVID-19 requires. We have come to the time when it is necessary to return to the state of emergency. However, it is important to leave some notes, namely to say that it is important to avoid a new total confinement unless it is absolutely essential. In any case, it is now important to support citizens, especially those who are in a situation of particular vulnerability, which we cannot help but know if they will be able to feed their families. But we must also support health professionals so that they can carry out their duties, keep themselves safe and have time for them, and ensure that they have at their disposal all the necessary means to combat the pandemic. In addition, we cannot focus solely on the treatment of COVID-19 and allow other diseases to emerge, with a particular focus on mental diseases, or that the early treatment of other diseases due to lack of resources is not ensured. It is necessary to promote telework and time travel, but also to ensure respect for the dignity of workers. Public transport needs to be strengthened so that people can move safely. It is necessary to promote preventive practices, whether the use of the mask or the maintenance of social distance, but it is also necessary to convey confidence to the Portuguese so that they can maintain their lives within normality as much as possible. It is important that people know that, while respecting certain conditions, it is safe to continue to go to the market, to classes, to the theatre or to the restaurant. To vote in favour of the declaration of the new state of emergency, as I will do today, is also to trust that these points will not be forgotten and believe that this is the way to deal with the current pandemic situation. I finish, wishing everyone to stay safe and healthy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-06.u52	To close this debate, you have the floor by the Government, the Minister of Internal Administration, Eduardo Cabrita.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-06.u53	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: for the fourth time in the framework of our democratic history, the Assembly of the Republic, this year, confronts itself with the assessment of a decree of the initiative of the President of the Republic which mobilizes for a cohesion of all sovereignty bodies and for the mobilization of all Portuguese in the adoption of proportionate, appropriate and necessary measures aimed at safeguarding the health of Portuguese, ensuring collective security, in a framework that allows for intense and concentrated action, an adequate response by health professionals to respect for rights, freedoms and guarantees. This pandemic situation, which has so severely overcome everyone, particularly Europe and Portugal, has consequences whose dimension, even in March, on March 2, when the first case was detected in our country, or on March 16, when we regretted the death of our first citizen victim of COVID-19, no one would anticipate. We are close to 50 million infected worldwide and so far there have been 1 million and 250,000 deaths. in the European framework, the dimension is also very significant. Countries that are close to us and with which we maintain economic, cultural, friendship and partnership relations, where there are significant Portuguese communities, are being deeply affected by the size of this pandemic crisis. Today, even on the day of this debate, we have unfortunately recorded the largest number of cases in Portugal on a single day since the beginning of the pandemic. in this framework, transparency and national cohesion require the mobilization of all Portuguese, require a joint position of the Presidency of the Republic, the Government and the Assembly of the Republic. The Government therefore appreciated the circumstances that determined the justification for this new emergency period and issued yesterday an opinion in favour of the decree proposed by His Excellency the President of the Republic. We have done, from the beginning of the pandemic, in conjunction with the Portuguese, all that is necessary to prevent and protect the Portuguese economy, health and freedom. This was the case before the first state of emergency, when we adopted measures as difficult as closing schools, establishing the Ovar health area, the limitations of economic activity, which happened even before the 18th of March, when we were here, in the first consideration of a proposal for a state of emergency declaration. We had 45 days of emergency, in which freedom was always safeguarded, in which respect for fundamental rights was also essential in valuing the way in which, under such exceptional conditions, we celebrated on 25 April. And, when necessary, we again anticipate an adequate response, which allowed the size of the pandemic to be limited in 19 parishes of five municipalities in the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon that affected, in a very significant way, the citizens, endangering collective health. That is where we continue this fight. This fight has, in the first line, the mobilization of the National Health Service, a fundamental achievement of our democracy. Solidarity with all those who are defending our lives — in hospitals, health centres, screenings — demands an active preventive attitude on the whole of the national community. In view of the times of uncertainty and the absence of a vaccine for longer months, the reduction of contacts and the reduction of risk factors are, as far as it is known, the best way to prevent the risk of this pandemic. That is why the Government has never hesitated to take the necessary measures at any time in the public health field and in the appropriate weighting of the restriction of economic activities to safeguard the protection of the health of all. Therefore, we have never had any doubt as to whether the legal basis of the measures that have been taken, either under the state of emergency regime or on the basis of the Basics of Civil Protection Act or the law that establishes a public health surveillance system. That is why, too, we have no doubt that it is essential to strengthen the legal framework that allows us to remove any doubts of a legal nature and focus on what is fundamental: defending health and saving the economy. The framework of the measures provided for in this state of emergency decree is therefore an essential principle of proportionality with the establishment of restrictions on freedom of movement or the possibility of movement in particularly affected areas, as in those municipalities which are already identified in terms of a significant dimension of the pandemic in the current disaster situation. Support is envisaged for the National Health Service for mobilisation, for the demands of the private and social sector and for the mobilization of workers of the Armed Forces and the security forces, which - I say - with the responsibility I have for them - have always been on the front line in guaranteeing freedom and security and in contributing to the health of citizens, without ever giving in to any trend of abuse of authority. It is expected that the temperature in access to public places, cultural equipment, commercial establishments or, in some circumstances, a diagnostic test will be required. It is in this framework that, with appropriateness, in the indispensable dimension of those who have never sacrificed their freedoms in the defence of the health of all, as responsible for monitoring and coordinating the application of these exceptional mechanisms, I have sent to the Assembly of the Republic up to today nine reports, three in a state of emergency, six in the remaining situations, which, with transparency, allow the scrutiny of what the government does at every moment. It is in this framework that we have no doubt that these measures, which today will have the support of the Assembly of the Republic, are necessary. They are measures that ensure that democracy is not suspended in the pandemic, that there is no contradiction between the battle for health and the battle for the economy and the defence of employment. This fight, which will be long, is the only thing that, unfortunately, we are sure. It will be difficult and will require the mobilization of all. This is a battle for freedom, without yielding to populism, a battle for life, without yielding to any hate speech. It is in this way of affirming collective security, the protection of health and the right to life as a fundamental value that a democratic society, founded in almost five decades of respect for fundamental values, adopts the measures necessary to ensure collective victory over this enemy of all of us. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-06.u54	Thank you, Minister. We have more than enough quorum to vote in so far as 215 Members are registered. I must also inform you that the organs of the autonomous regions have been heard in good time. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on the granting of authorisation, requested by the President of the Republic, of the statement of emergency state. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, CDS-PP and non-registered MP Cristina Rodrigues, votes against the PCP, PEV, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstains from BE, PAN and CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-06.u55	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-06.u56	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-06.u57	Mr President, it is to announce that I have made a written statement of vote on this vote to be followed by the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-06.u58	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have come to the end of our work today. I bid farewell to the next plenary session, wishing you all a good afternoon. The session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 23 minutes.]]
