ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 5 minutes.]] We shall immediately begin our plenary meeting with the reading of the dossier by Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I am going to announce the various diplomas which have entered the Bureau and which have been admitted by Mr President. I begin by referring, first, to the proposals of Law Nos 35 / XIV / 1. a ( ALRAM ) — In defence of the right of hearing of the self-government bodies of the Autonomous Regions — First amendment to Law No 40 / 96 of 31 August and 36 / XIV / 1. a ( ALRAM ) — Investigation Committees of the Legislative Assemblies of the Autonomous Regions — First amendment to Law No 48 / 2014 of 28 July, Bill No 451 / XIV / 1. a ( CH) — By defending the Portuguese material heritage and the importance of the totality of public monuments in particular all those who represent made, symbols or figures of recognized historical merit, which goes down to 1. the Commission in connection with 12. a.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u3	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there's a lot of noise in the room. Mrs. Secretary is trying to read the file so that anyone can hear it, but for that, there needs to be a little more silence. You can continue, Secretary Maria da Luz Rosinha.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u4	Mr President, they have also entered the Bureau, and have been admitted, the Draft of Deliberation No 8 / XIV / 1. a ( PAR) — Extension of the normal period of operation of the Assembly of the Republic and draft resolutions Nos 521 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Recommends support to the Government for the removal of firewood trees in 2017, the start of spontaneous growth eucalyptus and for ( re) foresting with endogenous species, which falls to 7. the Commission, 522 / XIV / 1. a ( IL) — The suspension of the appointment of the new Governor of the Banco de Portugal until the completion of the current legislative process in the Assembly of the Republic, which falls to 5. the Commission, 523 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Extension of the supply of terrestrial digital television software services ( TDT ), which falls to 12. the Commission, and 524 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends to the Government the implementation of measures to strengthen security and assist bathers, which goes down to 3. the Commission in connection with 11. a. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u5	We will then enter the first item on our agenda, which consists of the current debate required by the PSD, on the theme « Pedrogão Grande, three years later ». To open this debate, Mrs Emília Cerqueira, PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Today it is precisely three years ago that the country has witnessed, in shock and in direct, an overwhelming tragedy — televisions will announce, one by one, the victims of the great fires that devastated the Pinhal Interior area. Pedragon Grande became a symbol and synonymous with tragedy. The Portuguese, showing their greatness, said 'present' and joined, in a wave of solidarity never before seen, to help those martyred territories. We have no doubt that the Portuguese have been in touch with the situation when they said « present », as they have shown. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me, on behalf of the PSD, to leave our deep appreciation to the Portuguese and this one Portugal. Having returned three years of these tragic fires, it is time to make the point of the situation and draw the proper illusions about what was announced and what was actually done. It is important to remember that, in the aftermath of the tragedy, the Prime Minister stated that "after this year, nothing can be left as before" — everything would have to change. Assessed the heavy consequences of the tragedy, a clear movement of consensus between institutions and political forces was achieved to change the way forest and populations are protected. Working groups, observatories, independent committees and legislative framework were created. There was no lack of expert opinions and strategic advice from experts to implement a real reform. There was no lack of political conditions to implement the urgent reform of the forest and to improve the fire control strategy, now centered on a paradigm shift that favored prevention. Between Extraordinary Councils of Ministers and their various resolutions, the Revita Fund ( Population Support Fund and the Revitalization of the Fire-affected Areas in June 2017 ) was established, with a view to channeling the donations of the Portuguese to help rebuild those devastated territories. Today, it is urgent to ask: after all, what has changed? It is undeniable that much has been done at the level of reconstruction of the built heritage and infrastructure. It is undeniable that the Government has produced a wide variety of legislation to give shape to the recommendations of the Independent Technical Commission, created and recalled by the PSD proposal. It is undeniable that the Government has turned part of its attention to that forgotten and martyred territory. Nevertheless, the speedy response, due to the victims and their families, took time to arrive. over these three years, delays, failures, asymmetries of coordination, lack of investment control, lack of transparency have been added. There were also announcements of measures, unmet promises and prolonged hopes. Years of hope and despair have been added to those who have seen their lives crumble from night to day and, over three years, continue without hope and without expectations for the future. The PSD would like it not to be here today to impose this debate, moved by the need to underline what is failing. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the reality goes beyond any fiction scenario that the government wants to flag, and today what has to be counted here is the chronicity of what has not been done. There is a lack of implementation of an inclusive vision of planning and operationalization of a forest fire prevention and defense strategy. A structural change of the forest is needed to make it more resilient and robust. It is important to ensure that there is an effective response mechanism and that it is sufficiently prepared to deal with large events. Monchique and Vila de Rei-Mação have demonstrated well how far we are from this desire. There is a lack of interoperability between entities, supported by effective cooperation, which should be the central mission of the Agency for the Integrated Management of Rural Fires. It is recalled that it is up to this entity to implement the National Plan of Integrated Management of Rural Fires, which should have been approved until April 2018 but that only this week, and hastily, has been and still awaits their concrete action plans. There is no need to implement a structural change in the forest that makes it more resilient, robust and appealing for small owners to invest instead of leaving. Only this will ensure more carbon sequestration and a greener landscape. There is a lack of commitment to the training, qualification and scientific knowledge of the agents responsible for the fight against fires. There is a lack of implementation of the promised forest register. There is a need to reverse the trend that has occurred in recent years to reduce the number of firefighters, the Special Protection and Relief Unit of the GNR ( Republican National Guard) and the Special Civil Protection Force. The problem of communications is not solved, one of the major obstacles to the proper operation of combat teams on the ground. Lack of consistency in investment distribution. There is a lack of humility to recognize what is to be done and focus on creating effective responses to the needs that continue to exist and are increasingly pressing. There is no guarantee of transparency in the application of civil society donors in the effective reconstruction of houses and in the support of those most affected by the tragedy. It was in order to obtain these answers that the PSD may have requested a parliamentary committee of inquiry, which will soon carry out due scrutiny of the distribution of funds. There is a lack of speedy justice to ensure full accountability and responsibilities. There is no need to honor the memory of the victims with the guarantee that a tragedy like Pedragon Grande will not happen again. Unfortunately, three years later we have little certainty. And one of them, the most dramatic, is that there is nothing to guarantee that Portugal will not live again a terrible nightmare. The PSD has promised three years ago to honor the memory of the victims of this tragedy and not to allow their pain to be forgotten, as the indelible marks that this scourge has left in the lives of hundreds of people will not be forgotten. The PSD honours this commitment, not allowing difficulties to be ignored, that there is a flight of responsibilities or that the protection of people and goods is neglected. As always, the PSD continues to say 'present' in this fight on behalf of the national interest. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u7	Mr. Minister for the Environment and Climate Action, Mr. João Pedro Matos Fernandes, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Since 2017, much has been done in relation to structural fire prevention to try to avoid scenarios such as that of Pedrogão Grande. We can and are reorganizing the forest, but unfortunately we cannot return our lives to those who have lost it, and here I recall, again expressing our sorrow to their families. In the protection of infrastructure, what is done today is completely different from what was done. In order to have an idea in 2020, the REN ( National Electric Network) has already cleared 82 % of the planned area - these accounts are made by the end of the year - EDP ( Energys of Portugal ) cleared more than two thirds, the waters of Portugal too, and the EGF ( Forest Management Institutions), i.e. the company managing the landfills, cleaned up 97 %. In short, everything has changed in care to protect these infrastructures and the risk of them themselves being able to spread the fire. Already today, and at the end of May, the ICNF (Instituto de Conservação da Nature et das Florestas) installed 50 % of the FIF (fuel interruption bands) planned for this same year, acquired three heavy machines that are working in the public forests and will be used further for post-fire emergency stabilization, which did not exist in Portugal. During this period, 1000 km of rivers and banks were rehabilitated, using only natural basic solutions, in 64 municipalities that were hit by fires in 2017 and 2018, with funding from the Environmental Fund. We know well how these watercourses are excellent short-fire lines, if they have their riparian galleries well recovered and maintained. For this year too, the Environmental Fund has financed the acquisition of 12 drones, which will be installed on six bases, with a radius of action of 100 km, in order to cover the entire national territory and thereby greatly improve surveillance. The 7000 men of the various forces that exist, including those of the ICNF forest slags, are now all coordinated and are monitoring with one direction guaranteed by the GNR. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Pinhal Interior Revitalization Program was created to mitigate the effects of the 2017 fires, participated from municipalities, local agents and mobilized investments over EUR 200 million. But it is above all with the approval of the landscape plans that we have instruments to transform the rural territory of these spaces. Our intention — expressed and public — is to reduce the burning area in our country by half in 10 years. To do this, we must act on a fifth, 1, 2 million hectares of our rural and forestry territory. That's why they're going to serve the 20 landscape plans. One, concerning the Monchique and Silves saws, is already completed; another, concerning Sertan, Mação, Vila de Rei, Proença-a-Nova and Oleiros, is underway; and for the municipalities of the so-called Pinhal Interior, where there were the great fires that were known by the name « Pedrogão fires », the contest will be launched very soon. This is what we have done: we are always afraid of being close to the territory. The organic law of the ICNF makes that clear. Co-management projects are evidence. The hiring of over 100 nature watchers — the Greens Ecological Party — has had such a big deal on this issue — is also of great significance. We have done much in these three years to make our territories more resilient, and our efforts will not be able to stop and will have to continue. The investment of EUR 145 million, for the first time with two funds together — the RDP (Rural Development Programme) and the Environmental Fund, one to make the transformation, another to maintain these forest areas over 15 to 20 years — is fundamental and has no precedent in this country. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u9	Mr John Dias of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government and Members of the Commission. Members, really, the situation we are discussing today is sensitive. Three years later, the tragic fires of Pedrogão leave us many worries and also a lot of regret. But we must not only regret and concern, there must be measures on the ground, there must be measures to support the population, measures to support the victims, support the producers, support the farmers, and measures that can also support the industrial and business activity of these affected regions. The tragic fires of 2017, but not only those of 2017, also in 2018 and also last year, in 2019, showed the vulnerabilities in our country, in the face of this tragedy that cyclically affects us. These are vulnerabilities of the demographic forum, vulnerabilities in the energy aspect, spatial planning, infrastructure, public services, so essential for the establishment of the population in the interior territories, which cannot be separated for years— decades! — right-wing policies...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u11	I was missing!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u12	... that led to what was a more than programmed occurrence. It was a situation in which there were only conditions, not only meteorological, but also social, to happen. in those territories, these conditions were actually saying that that would happen. from here comes a fundamental issue, which it is necessary to take into account: the behaviour of successive governments, not only of the current government of the PS but also of the governments of Socrates and Passos Coelho, who always wanted to create the idea that the occurrence and reduction of fires, after the fires that have already occurred, happens because the correct measures have been taken. Mrs. Ministers, I want to tell you that in a year, we cannot correct what needs, slowly, to be corrected and that it takes years and years to correct. It's not possible! And our people know that, year after year, structural problems that lead to fires are not corrected. It's impossible that this happens. When the government comes to say that it has done everything necessary to correct and to prevent — especially when it comes to prevention — that fires happen, it is only to prevent the necessary measures from being taken, in the context of investment, to reduce the occurrence of fires, because yes, you are. Ministers, fire prevention requires investment. Preventing fires requires investment and the government does not want to spend. And here is the big problem, because the government has responsibilities, but it is not alone — PS, PSD and CDS have shared responsibilities. They speak as if they had nothing to do with what happened to the forest, as if they had nothing to do with the fires that happened, very serious, but they have everything to do with it. [[CDS-PP protests.]] In the case of the CDS, when it could have defended the rural world, it did not; when it could have promoted the productive density, it did not; when it could have valued the national production, it did not. It preferred to produce lack of investment in the rural world, divert resource allocation and, in particular, create the broth of culture which is the reduction in the allocation of public administration resources to combat fires. So, Minister, I want to leave you here a central problem: forest management involves people and implies incomes. Mr. Minister says that the CFP has a productive view of the forest. Mr Minister, this is our vision because the forest we have is essentially not a natural forest. I therefore ask you, Minister, who will manage the forest and, most importantly, how you will pay for that management. I leave these questions to you, Minister. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u13	You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, three years ago we were in shock precisely with the tragic events that had taken place in Pedrogan. Today, because of this debate, whose relevance we naturally recognize, we are called upon to revive one of the most laborious days of our recent history. More than that, we are called to work so that days like June 17, 2017 will no longer take place in our country. It is on this assumption, and on the assumption of the construction of solutions, that today we must be called for this debate. in this sense, one of the first issues we would like to address here, not only with the government but also with the other political forces, is about a question that seems absolutely fundamental to us: on the one hand, prevention and on the other — something we have not heard, for example, in the PSD speech — which has to do with combating climate change. We know that the PSD has, in fact, insisted on the adequacy and strengthening of the means of combat — even though they also have their responsibilities, of the time when they were governance — and we do not stop accompanying this concern. The fact is that today we know that phenomena such as those that devastated Pedrogão, but also Oliveira do Hospital or other areas of the country, in that year, are deeply linked to the climate crisis that we live in. In fact, a firefighting device is impossible to fully respond to the increase in the amount and intensity of fires, as the reality has already shown us. The first line of action must certainly be prevention, so that fires do not occur, or occur with the lowest possible intensity, so that it is possible to fight them. Having said that, the question that has to be put — not only for the PS but also for the Government, which is present today — is whether or not the fundamental bet has to be on fire prevention, because we cannot continue spending four times more on fire fighting and having a sub-investment in prevention. The second question — and we have indeed not heard this preeminence of environmental protection in the intervention of the PSD — is linked to the characterization of the territory. in this sense, a good forest planning is also crucial for prevention, which is done to ensure. In Portugal, there are added challenges, since, contrary to what is usual in other countries, the vast majority of forest property is private, with extensive abandoned areas and numerous owners who do not have the necessary financial resources to perform good forest management. The NAP considers it essential to create mechanisms that encourage the resizing of plots and adequate forest management. It also considers that it is absolutely necessary on the part of the State — in addition to the creation of incentives — to conclude the forest register which has not been made so far and thus assume direct responsibilities in the management of abandoned land. in this sense, we leave this question to the government: when will the forest register be completed? When are you going to assume responsibilities in forest management of abandoned land? This seems essential to us, in addition to another incontrovertible issue, which is forestry reorganisation. The third question has to do with adapting our forest to the new climate reality we live in. This will only be possible through forest reorganisation, by betting on indigenous species, which are more fire resistant, something that must be realized by creating incentives for ecosystem services, by betting on species with positive environmental impacts and fire resistant. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, while maintaining a fast-burning forest, with a predominance of species such as eucalyptus and bravado pine, we will never have the ability to stop fires that, before they become uncontrollable, must be tackled precisely through prevention, effective reorganization and efficient management. For this we need to bet on native and leafy species, such as oaks, as the Independent Technical Observatory has defended, that this government is afraid not to listen. in this sense, we would like to know whether the PSD agrees with this approach and we would also like to know whether the government, whether or not, because we need to move from the proclaiming plan, will implement the appropriate reorganisation measures of our forest and when it will do so. With regard to the lack of human resources — and here too we have had the opportunity to listen in the previous intervention — we could no longer agree with the need to strengthen the human resources. In addition, the Independent Technical Observatory itself draws attention to the non-recovery of the burned areas and to the reduction of human resources in the fire department, the special unit of protection and relief of the GNR and the Special Civil Protection Force, also highlighting the lack of recruitment to operational command stations, insufficient training and qualification of agents and precarious work. We must also point out the lack of cooperation by the Government itself with the Independent Technical Observatory, in particular in the timely delivery of the information required by the ICNF, which takes almost five months to provide the appropriate information, which, in our view, is absolutely incomprehensible. The omission of information to the Observatory, in addition to illegal, calls into question the regular functioning of democratic institutions. It is recalled that one of the functions of the Independent Technical Observatory is to inform the Assembly of the Republic on forest and forest fire issues and that the impeding of this information to the Observatory constitutes in practice an obstacle to the monitoring action of the Assembly of the Republic on the Government.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u15	Madam Member, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u16	Mr. President, I conclude now. This also calls into question the principle of transparency in the work of the ICNF. We therefore find it essential that the Government also clarify when it will provide proper information and implement the recommendations of the Observatory.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u17	You have the floor to make requests for clarification, Mr Ventura, of the Arrival.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u18	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government and Members of the Commission. Ladies and gentlemen, what brings us here today is the discussion about one of the greatest tragedies Portugal has faced in recent years. Still, and we must say it clearly, Pedragon has gone, and it remains, above all, the injury of expectations. We had, and we still have, a number of people who, even now, are brought to trial by ridicule, as happened in the case of the houses that were distributed. Manuel Francisco died at 82. And he died without seeing the house rebuilt, when they had told him that three months later, he would have the problem solved. He was told by the government, he was told by the President of the Republic, and three months later he had nothing. And he died without seeing the house rebuilt. We then had everything we saw about donations, about jokes with houses and goods, furniture and real estate, delivered to help the victims. How far have we reached and where are we? What has been done about this matter? What has been done in the prevention of forests? And, above all, what was done of the promised aid, having been said, on that day, by the government, that it would be an aid never seen for a heavily affected land? It's been three years. Where is that help never seen before? Where is the help for a heavily affected land? And where was justice done? We do not forget that the House has proposed a committee of inquiry to Pedrogão, which has been cast, with the votes of the left of this Parliament, to prevent an investigation into what happened.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u19	Mr President, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u20	Today, in Pedrogão, justice is called for, but above all, reconstitution and much attention by the government. And that's what hasn't been done yet.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u21	You have the floor, to ask for clarifications, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u22	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in 2017, in the heat of the tragedy, said Prime Minister Antonio Costa : « Nothing can be left as before ». These are words that cannot be forgotten because, after three years of Pedrogão Grande's tragedy, the greatest risk is even forgetfulness. Three years later, things just didn't "get as they were" because, in some cases, they got worse. The promised change was in the drawer. Another promise that this socialist government has been unable to fulfill. Three years ago, the state, which so many want to have everywhere, failed. And so as not to be forgotten, here are some examples of this failure. In 2017, just weeks before the time of fires, the government changed the leaders of Civil Protection, to place the Socialist Party boys there. Last week, the report of the Independent Technical Observatory said that « what was promised was not fulfilled », and concluded that a fire of that dimension could happen again. The Public Prosecutor's Office has two judicial processes: one of the 66 lives lost in those fires and another for the support for the reconstruction of housing. in all, there are 38 people charged and no one has yet been tried. Yesterday, the President of the Association of the Victims of the Pedrogão Grande Fire said that the Revita Fund provided by the Portuguese was not yet used. And there are the silent, lasting, and always forgotten victims of this tragedy, like the heroic fireman, disabled at 80 % in this fire, who now receives a pension of just over 300 € — repeat, 300 €! The state, which so much likes to get into where it is not called, was here called and failed. It failed in its essential function: ensuring the safety of people.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u23	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u24	I shall conclude, Mr President, by saying that a small and strong State, as the Liberal Initiative defends, a State that did not spread in Champions Leagues and other folklores, would fail less in what is most important here: fulfilling the promise of a new opportunity for the interior of the country, which remains forgotten while Lisbon will see the ball. [[All right!]] [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u25	You now have the floor to ask for clarifications by Mr João Almeida of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group. [[Pause.]] I'm sorry, sir, but there was a mistake. It is Mr. Ricardo Vicente, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, who has first the use of the word and only then Mr. João Almeida. Mr Ricardo Vicente, of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u26	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In 2017, almost all of us said that the consequences of the fires in June and October of that year could not be repeated again. Despite improvements in some components of the system, we are not sure that the country is prepared enough to face events of the same magnitude, especially because the determining variables remain without structural changes. These include: planning, forest management, recovery of areas burned and mitigation of inadequate risk; insufficient training and qualification of agents; indefinition in the territorial organization model to be adopted by the State services, with particular responsibilities in the fire prevention and firefighting system; the work precariousness of several agents; the lack of recruitment to operational command stations; the maintenance of some risk behaviors by the population under conditions favourable to the occurrence of fires. These are the conclusions of the last technical note regarding the three years after the Pedrogão fires, recently published by the Independent Technical Observatory, a body of this Assembly of the Republic created for the analysis, monitoring and evaluation of forest and rural fires occurring in the national territory and constituted by researchers with various scientific valences. The warning they give us is clear: without structural changes in the constitution of the forest and its management and in the prevention and fire control system is high the risk of repeat of the 2017 mega-fires, which took the lives of more than 100 people and destroyed part of the territory, which is still to be recovered today.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u27	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u28	The flames consumed more than half a million hectares in just one year. Most of the burning forest areas did not have any type of intervention and the dominant species, the eucalyptus, had already reached, in many places, 3 and 4 m high, after bursting disorderly. The landscape was once again occupied with a monoculture, now more dense due to the lack, or absence, of forest management work, thus providing for an increase in the risk of future fires. Invasive plants are also gaining ground and are out of control in many areas of public and private forests. The coastal forests of Leiria and Coimbra districts are examples, for which there are no robust measures scheduled for their reconstruction and abandonment is falsely justified with natural regeneration. A government that sets a bad example in the management of public forest has no credibility to demand different from private owners.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u29	That's the problem!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u30	In forestry policy, this is the government of "do what I say, do not do what I do" and this is not the attitude of those who really want to avoid mistakes from the past. While public fire prevention and fire control policy is drifting, economic and financial interests around the forest of monoculture are taking root. The State budget provides for the implementation of a fee on the cellulose industry and other intensive extraction activities that should finance the diversification of the forest, but the government appears to have forgotten again, as nothing is known of its application. The government announces millions of euros for the financing of ecosystem services, which are budgeted, but populations who have seen their territory burn don't have the way to access this fund to create a different forest on their land. The National Plan of Integrated Management of Rural Fires takes two years of delay, has ignored all recent technical-scientific advice in its strategy and does not yet have its action plan. If we analyze the National Plan of Integrated Management of Rural Fires, the Land Transformation Programs, the National Forest Strategy and the Regional Forest Management Programmes, the conclusion we withdraw is that the Government is drifting along in forest policy matters. With so many contradictory signs, you don't realize where we're going. It is therefore urgent to harmonise the spatial planning and fire prevention and control tools in order to ensure greater resilience of the territory to climate change, transparently and with clear objectives, as suggested by the latest technical and scientific recommendations. We need to know whether the government is available to do so and in good time. Moreover, all the victims of the 2017 fires are now dually vulnerable to the current crisis. It is therefore necessary to take additional measures to support them. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u31	It is now Mr. João Almeida, from the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group. You have the floor, Mr President, for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u32	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, ladies and gentlemen. Members : To talk about Pedrogão is, firstly, to talk about people, those who, unfortunately, lost their lives on that day, their family members, their friends and, above all, their community, a community that has never been, nor will it be, the same. I would risk to say that it is desirable that we, as a country and as a community, are not the same either after what has happened. It is that, speaking about people and remembering all of them, we also have to talk about the country, what we are, and the country has failed. The country has failed Pedrogon and nothing to do, nothing to do, nothing to do from there will someday erase a tremendous stain on what we are like Country. That is why political debates on this subject must, first of all, have that responsibility. We will no longer be able to change the evil that has happened, but it is expected that the Portuguese will lay in us the hope that we will be able to do enough so that such situations do not repeat themselves. Therefore, the consensus that has been reached, not with regard to those responsible and what has been done before, but with regard to the inadequacy of what has been done after, should all of us call for us to do much more than we have been able to do so far. The CDS, at the time, was committed to the way it understood to be right, demanding political responsibilities to which it governed at the moment—that is for everyone, when we rule or when we are in opposition—and being present on the ground. Today I have heard a reference to a previous President of the CDS and I want to make a clear reference to the Assumption Cristos. I had the opportunity to go with her dozens of times to those territories, most of them anonymously, to know about each situation, every story, every family, every house. Being political and bearing witness to public service is also that. It's much more than speech and other things. Therefore, I could not fail to make this reference, which is of justice and is a testimony to what I could live next to the Christian Assumption, as party leader, in that responsibility. The country has failed at the time and the question, now, is whether it has corrected itself or whether it has anticipated what, in the future, may fail again. Let's talk about five clear criteria. First of all, social cohesion. From the point of view of social cohesion, have we managed to repair the impacts of that situation? Do the people who have suffered the most, from a social point of view, the result of having lost their loved ones, of having lost their possessions, have their situations properly repaired? I think no one can consciously say that this has been done enough. Unfortunately, there are those who have not yet had their situation restored and there are many people who have seen their situation corrected in a very insufficient way. Secondly, territorial balance. One day we can say, after this time, that one of the main problems that existed there, which was depopulation, which left people alone and disordered the territory, vulnerable to what happened, ceased to exist? Can we look at and say that, at this time, we have, from a territorial point of view, a fairer distribution or more just conditions for people to occupy the territory and for better territorial management to be done? I also think we can't say that. Thirdly, on the ability to protect and respond to the restructuring of the civil protection device, I gave only one example: last week I read that the European rescue mechanism was going to acquire more air resources. I thought it was this time that we were going to resume the PSD/CDS Government's project for air media, owned by the Portuguese State, to respond to this issue. Unfortunately, even with Pedrogon, we will continue to be the only Mediterranean country that has no air resources to fight fire. Have we done enough in response capacity? It seems clear to me that it is not. But there are two other issues that must be very serious about our reflection on this matter. One of them is justice, that is, what was required of justice. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is not to question the separation of powers to say in the Assembly of the Republic, representing the Portuguese, that justice must be fair and that, to be fair, it must be speedy. Justice that continues to delay the solution of pending processes is not being speedy and is losing the opportunity to be just. This has to be said on behalf of the Portuguese. The last question is this: true. The country joined in solidarity to help these people and these regions and saw constant news that this generous aid had been badly distributed, had been misassigned, had been on the way. That is something that, in a community, creates a very serious problem.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u33	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u34	I will finish, Mr. President. As I was saying, this is something that, in a community, generates a very serious problem, which is the following: next time, everyone will doubt whether it is worth being, in fact, solidarity and whether that aid will reach those who need it. We do not have the truth about it yet, and that is our responsibility. Let us hope that the committee of inquiry which we are now beginning to give at least this guarantee of truth so that people can again trust that their solidarity reaches those who need it, in situations of difficulty. Thank you very much for your tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u35	Mr Santinho Pacheco has the floor for an intervention by the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u36	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : The PSD Parliamentary Group called for the scheduling of a current debate on Pedrógão Grande, three years later, which is absolutely understandable when we are faced with the greatest tragedy in the Portuguese forest, with widespread material and environmental damage and, with much pain, dozens of fatal victims. In 2017, about half a million hectares were burned up in Portugal, a vast territory, where everything was gradually ending, marked by depopulation, the aging of the population, the absence of true forest management and the lack of business dynamism. The extreme drought and current violence of forest fires, with projections at miles away, show the vulnerability and threat to which rural spaces and villages lost between forests and forests are exposed in low-density territories. The report of the ITC ( Independent Technical Commission ) is detailed and rigorous. We were faced with a fire that showed extreme and exceptional phenomena of fire behavior, in a territory with features that favor the occurrence of large fires, in the middle of a heat wave, after a winter and an extremely hot and dry spring. There have been failures in the area of structural prevention (no cleaning) and operational failures (so-called collapse of communications), but no one can ignore that we have faced one of the most complex fire scenarios that ever occurred in Portugal. The PSD and now the CDS, its government partner with the pasta of agriculture and forests,... [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u37	... are fully aware that the situation on the ground and the accumulated fuel charges were not resulting from the government practice of those who had taken possession a year earlier, in November 2015,... [[PSD protests.]] ... before being the result of options for rural territories, which left the abandonment, the advance of the eucalyptus, without any concern about prevention. What burned in 2017 was not what grew in 2016.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u38	It's been decades!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u39	He burned the accumulated in many years, being 2011 and 2015 also included. As this debate is absolutely understandable, imposed by respect for the innocent victims, the pain of their families and all those who, on the ground, days and nights, fought with heroism, up to the limit of their forces, a treacherous, ruthless and brutal enemy, he is also more than correct.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u40	Worse blind is what you don't want to see!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u41	We can all make a balance of what has been done in those councils that were part of the area known as the "Great Pedrogon Fire", with structural changes in the field of civil protection, in the training and qualification of its agents, in the professionalization of many of their frameworks, in the reduction of the number of ignitions, in the self-protection of populations and in the strengthening of equipment. There is, in civil protection, one before and one after Pedrogon Grande. But Pedrogão's tragedy also points to a shift in state behavior in support of populations, businesses, authorities and victims of forest fires. Fires have always existed, some with fatal victims, but normally the various governments did not feel obliged to address the consequences of these natural phenomena in the rural country. For the first time, there was political, social and economic sensitivity to respond in bloc — state, authorities, private entities, anonymous citizens and the European Union — for a mass mobilization that would respond positively to the right to the future of the people of Pinhal Interior. There was a real miracle in the reconstruction of villages and parish churches, in the replacement of economic potential, in the payment of social benefits and hundreds of dwellings were recovered. In the face of an extraordinary situation, expectations were not at all disappointed, even when it was intended to generalize suspicion and undermine confidence in institutions. You cannot accuse yourself of bureaucratic proceedings and then point to administrative delays, the "strengthening because everything is done in a hurry" or ask where the evidence is. Didn't everything go well? Of course not. [[Oh, no!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u42	Just for a miracle! But it is to find out the illegalities and irregularities that the Judicial Police and the Public Prosecutor's Office exist. Two trials are under way and 38 defendants are charged. We will wait for the marking of judgments, because the courts are the place to apply justice in a rule of law. The dimension of what happened in Pedrogão does not support opportunistic approaches or illegitimate uses. That's why this PSD schedule sounds very false to me, because it's not authentic and it doesn't make any sense. It is demagogy at the service of a political strategy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u43	Really? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u44	For two years, the PSD participated in dozens of meetings and debates on Pedrogão and never remembered or fell into the temptation to use the tragedy as a political weapon. Now he wants everything and he's worth it! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President José Manuel Pureza took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u45	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u46	I conclude now, Mr President. The tow of the Czech Republic, the PSD has set up a parliamentary committee of inquiry and, for today, has scheduled this debate on the same subject
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u47	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u48	Do you no longer believe in the Committee of Inquiry, or do the PSD also have ‘more eyes than its belly’ in this case? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u49	For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u50	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Three years have passed one day when no one imagined that it would happen, from the images of the huge lavaredas, the brave and resistant firemen, the desperate populations and the new day that, when he was born, revealed a black landscape filled with mourning. Three years ago a great fire with never seen consequences, tens of deaths, destruction of thousands of agricultural holdings, thousands of dead animals, lost biodiversity, destruction of companies and difficult impacts of eradicating and marking the lives of all who live there. For all of them, I leave a word of solidarity on behalf of the ENP. The day was of abnormal weather conditions, but the heat and the winds were only part of what happened. Blame cannot continue to be attributed to the sun or to climate change. The political options were the main ones responsible for that tragedy and we cannot afford to forget that there were those who decided to pay for their olives and vineyards, which gave rise to the monoculture of pine trees and eucalyptus. There are responsible for successive governments that have encouraged the destruction of family agriculture, which has always occupied part of the territory, and which with this option condemned the territory to desertification. The bare and raw truth, at the end of three years, is that there is still much to be done, as the Independent Technical Observatory has well noticed. The central question is this: what commitment will the government make? The Greens highlight two areas. First, the area of defence and support of family agriculture, as a way to ensure the management and maintenance of rural space and also as a possibility to fix the population and preserve the environment. In the 2017 fires, it was well known that areas occupied by agricultural activities had an important role to avoid the size and consequences of their activities being even greater than those that occurred. Question: what has been done with this knowledge in these years? The other area is that of reforestation with native species. The Greens reaffirm that it is essential to protect and promote the forest by ensuring ordering on the basis of species diversification, protection of ecosystems and effective measures to prevent and combat forest fires, which begin by blocking the expansion of the eucalyptus and by promoting and supporting the use of indigenous forest species. At the initiative of the Greens, the legal regime for trees and reforestation includes the obligation of the ICNF to manage the area of eucalyptus up to the size envisaged in the National Forestry Strategy. And what do we have today? We have a much worse situation because not only have new areas of eucalyptus been licensed as natural regeneration is completely out of control. What's going to be done? Or is the government going to give in to pressure on the interests of paper pulp companies? The set of measures adopted, which were indeed a hand full of almost nothing, seek to give peace to the people, but, despite the reinforcement in the fight, which is positive, the essential, which was overlooked by the change of the current model, by proper planning and management of the territory. Only in this way, by creating mosaics and flaps in the landscape, will it be possible to combat today's uncultivated areas and spontaneous growth of rapid growth species, such as, for example, acacias, and attenuate the dimension of fires. The Greens Ecological Party points out three years about the dramatic fire of Pedrógão Grande, presenting two legislative initiatives. First, a bill that aims to monitor and strengthen the national objective, provided for in the law, to stop the expansion of the forest area occupied by the eucalyptus. Then, a draft resolution that recommends the creation of specific support, aimed at small owners, to remove the trees burned by the great fires of 2017 that still stand high on the ground and for the re-arborization of endogenous species more resistant to fires. It also recommends that, after the occurrence of new fires, immediate support be given to small owners, authorities and balds to start spontaneous eucalyptus, up to 18 months after the occurrence of fires, in order to stop their uncontrolled proliferation; and also recommends that support be established for the re-arborization of areas burned with endogenous species and greater supervision on illegal eucalyptus plantations, in particular in interface areas near urban and industrial spaces. The populations are today as vulnerable or more vulnerable than they were in 2017, despite actions and simulations. Let the government not only make use of the change in the policy of defense of the rural world, which is so urgent and so necessary.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u51	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr João Dias.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u52	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I just want to point out the effort that the CFP has made to correct legislative and technical errors that have greatly damaged owners, producers and many authorities. in these respects, we must make it clear that the PS and PSD have gone hand in hand and, by joining together, have done everything to repudiate the legislative initiatives of the CFP. [[Protests by PSD Member Emilia Cerqueira.]] We need to talk about the saga that was the registration, that is, the registration of land without owners. from that forum, the PSD spoke of honouring commitments, but went back when the PCP defended the small owners and the PS warned: « Attention, because these measures will protect the small owners ». They went back because they were not defending the small owners; what you wanted was to defend the great owners. [[PSD Member Protest Duarte Marques.]] That is why, Minister, I ask you to clarify us today. Mr Minister, who has the responsibility of the forests, tell us: how many land without owners do we have? [[PSD Member Protest Duarte Marques.]] Tell us how many land without known owner we have to know if it is important, or not, to make a registration so that you know the properties and the owners, or whether that is important only to apply double fines and fines. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u53	On behalf of the Government, you have the floor for an intervention Mr. Minister of Internal Administration Eduardo Cabrita.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u54	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Three years after Pedrogão, the best and only honour we can pay to the 66 victims of this tragic fire is every day to ensure that everything will be done without hiding problems but without making demagogy,... [[Mr Duarte Marques's laughter.]] ...to never be anything more like you did. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is what we have done since in October of this year I was here for the first time discussing with you the report of the Independent Technical Commission, which, at the initiative of the PSD, was formed by the Assembly of the Republic. The Government's line of action is to do what makes the difference in this matter. No compensation had ever been paid to victims so quickly. [[PSD Member Protest Duarte Marques.]] It does not re-establish life, but it does justice and the Ombudsman has played a decisive role there. [[PSD Member Protest Duarte Marques.]] Five hundred houses had never been recovered with this speed and size. The register, so spoken, was the PS government that launched it, exactly in this area, and is made in 10 municipalities. Now, what's missing is to extend it to the rest of the north and the center,... [[Protests from PCP MP João Dias.]] ...so that you may know who the owner of the earth is and that it may be managed with transparency. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The planning plans of the forest that were in the drawer since 2011 have been completed, approved, and, at the moment, it is up to the authorities to assume responsibility for transport to their territory, so that in the rural and forestry area they do what they already do in the urban area and that, with the political legitimacy that the people give them, it is to manage the territory for the benefit of all. But it also changed everything at the level of surveillance. We have never talked so much about land cleaning and it was not the law that changed, it was the consciousness of Portuguese society.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u55	Mr. Minister, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u56	Today everyone knows it's 50 m around the house and 100 m around the village. And this is also the case in the fight, with more than 21 % ready for combat than in 2017 and more than 25 % air assets, all available and contracted until 2033.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u57	Mr. Minister, you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u58	Will there be fires? Of course. That is what the risk of climate change tells us. But all together, without demagogy, we will do everything so that nothing will be like before. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u59	No demagogy, well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u60	The problem for the government is the small property!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u61	For an intervention still at this stage of debate, Mrs Cláudia André has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u62	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. Members : In the face of the death and tragedy of 2017, we do not accept the low policy and the metric that the PS and sometimes the PCP have brought to us. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u63	The PS in particular did a lamentable trivialization of death. [[PS protests.]] What happened on June 17, 2017 is not to be forgotten nor was it common. At that time, all of you recognized him. Where were we this June 17th? I was in the county of Sertan and all the inhabitants of Pinhal Interior, both North and South, will be able to answer this question. We also know what happened in those days, months and years. We have closely followed all the promises and commitments made by the government. Apparently, for the rest of the country it may seem that building houses, docking roads and placing new signboards is enough to solve the whole problem, but in Pinhal Interior the forest is even the life of its inhabitants. Severe and blood are almost synonymous. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u64	There, the breadwinner of those Portuguese depends, directly or indirectly, on the forest. over these three years many documents have been published and presented. in them it is defended that the forest will have to be seen as part of the solution and never of the problem, that for such an event it is essential to exist planned reforestation and that only so the forest will be one of the agents that structurally contributes to the mitigation of fires. All right! So I ask you, Minister : how many acres of forest have been replenished or planted in the areas of the 2017 fires, with direct responsibility of your Ministry?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u65	Zero! [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u66	The Government has used the excuse of small property, of the forest disorder of decades for the inability to implement all the measures that, over the past three years, has been denouncing and thoroughly announcing. These problems existed before, so I wonder why promises have been announced without the end that we know it should have been given. We people of Pinhal feel in the skin that none of this has been done, say what they say.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u67	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u68	Mr. Prime Minister, in statements, in the presentation of one of many reforestation pilot projects on land affected by fires, said the following: «Let the forest grow freely is creating conditions for it to be fueled ». Well, the National Plan for Integrated Management of Rural Fires, published just two days ago in the Journal of the Republic, has 144 pages and in them the word "fire" is referred to 268 times. Do you know how many times the word'reforestation' is referred to? One time! But in this same document, we find this beautiful framework full of information on the competences of all entities. The speaker showed the picture she mentioned. I ask the following question: will a forest producer somehow be able to find the corner where he can ask for such much support? Investing only in means of combat without investing in the forest is undoubtedly as if the Ministry of Health, during this pandemic caused by COVID-19, strengthened only and only intensive care of hospitals, without any other action. Therefore, Mr Minister, to bet on the reforestation of Pinhal Interior is to bet on increasing the wealth produced in the country and is still to bet on better environmental quality and carbon sequestration, in the words of V. Exa. We have not been able to understand, therefore, why the Government which Mr Minister joined — and was integrated in 2017 — did not have the same commitment over three years that he has had with other projects that I am sorry to mention. Mr Minister, it is clear that our small territory of Pinhal Interior is far away, it is clear that still here today he said he had 20 landscape plans, but I know that there are not and that they are all alone in the paper. I ask you again, Minister, where is the funding for these plans.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u69	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u70	Where are the ports that, on May 21, the Council of Ministers announced that it would assign, making this whole plantation much easier? Now, Minister, where are these 1000 km of water lines and shores that you have also spoken about in all the interventions you have done in this House? By now, I would ask you to provide us with information on the site where the interventions are located, at this 1000 km.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u71	Mrs. Deputy, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u72	I'm done now, Mr. President. Mrs. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, three years have passed and, in Pinhal's forest, I assure you, nothing has changed. The government gentlemen have left. The trees, many are still there, burned, but standing, as the whole region, burned in 2017, in 2018 and 2019, which for the time being still stands. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u73	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the first item on our agenda.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u74	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u75	Sir, would you like to speak for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u76	Mr President, I call on you to defend the honor of the bench. [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u77	Mr President, you will be in favour of speaking, as is evident, but explaining the reasons.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u78	Mr President, when the Member of the Democratic Social Party says in this House that the Socialist Party is making a trivialization of death, we feel the obligation to defend our honour. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u79	Then you have the word. Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u80	You need to be careful with the words!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u81	Mr President, we understand the political debate, because what moves us is the confrontation of ideas, the finding of solutions. What we do not realize is that serious issues are being used, equating their true reasons and origins to make the fleeting attack on the honour of people who democratically defend their views. But we understand the argument of the trivialization of death, because those who use the death of others to engage in political combat, who use pain to combat politics, of course can only transfer to the other with whom they debate the trivialization of that same death. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Member of the...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u82	Mr President, I believe it was clear and grateful that it would conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u83	Madam Member, you can discuss everything in this House, really everything, but there is one thing that we in the Socialist Party do not admit to you: to transform this debate, which is serious, into the chafurdice... [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP João Pinho de Almeida.]] ... where you tried to transform it. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u84	In order to explain, if you understand it, you have the floor of Mrs Cláudia André. [[Pause.]] The honourable Member has informed that she has transferred this right to Mr Adam Silva. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u85	Mr President, the intervention of our colleague, Claude André, is fair and correct, and the expression which he used, that of Mr Santinho Pacheco's intervention, we had the idea that there was a banalization of the circumstances of the people who died in Pedrogão, is real. [[Protests by PS Member Isabel Alves Moreira.]] I shall quote exactly the sentence that you, Mr. Santinho Pacheco, said. V. Exa said people died the way they always die in all fires. Mr President, this is absolutely unacceptable! Completely unacceptable! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u86	That's fake! It's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u87	He didn't say that! It's an even more serious offense!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u88	Sir, today we are invoking... [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u89	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for concluding this incident as soon as possible. Mr Adam Silva, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u90	Mr President, if there are any doubts, we can review the video of Mr Santinho Pacheco's speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u91	Excuse me!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u92	Let me explain! The truth is, today, we invoke the death of dozens of people, we invoke solidarity with these people.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u93	What a shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u94	Today, we mean that there may be fires in the future in Portugal, but there can no longer be deaths caused by fires in Portugal!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u95	Thank you very much, Mr. It's clear. [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]] This point is thus concluded, so we move on to the second item on the agenda, which consists of the assessment of the Parliamentary Survey No 3 / XIV / 1. a ( CH) — Establishment of a parliamentary committee of inquiry to the procedures for the acquisition of personal protective equipment in the context of the fight against COVID-19. To present your legislative initiative, Mr André Ventura has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u96	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: Today we are presenting a proposal to make it clear what has been done by the Government of the Republic during the management of this crisis we are facing. We are talking about public contracts which at some point exceeded EUR 150 million. Of these EUR 150 million, on 5 May, the value of direct adjustments already exceeded EUR 80 million. The Socialist Party and the Government have asked this House for more flexibility in direct adjustment and they have been given. The Socialist Party has asked this House for more flexibility in the Court of Auditors' visas and has been given to them. Because it is time for Parliament to also be able to know why the cases that the Republic was ashamed of in the management of the crisis have multiplied. What am I talking about? For example, for sale and certification of masks for EUR 8, 5 million, involving a company by João Cordeiro, to which, as it is known, the Public Prosecutor has already opened an investigation. This case was seen by the Portuguese with enormous stupefaction because they were non-certified materials that took time and did not serve to respond to the crisis. I also speak of the case of a Secretary of State, who will not inhibit me from appointing John Paul Rebel, who suggested that the company of an old partner could serve to test the population. When confronted with this, he assumed that he had suggested it, although he had done so in the interest of testing and in the interest of Portugal. They are too serious cases so that the country can watch them without knowing the reality of what happened. What we are asking today is not related to the Ministry of Public Affairs of Portugal, nor to any judicial body. We call for the vote of this House to initiate an exhaustive, serious and permanent investigation into what has been done by the Government of the Republic. [[Rice from PS Pedro do Carmo's deputy.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u97	You would like to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u98	I shall conclude, Mr President, by saying the following: Antonio Costa said yesterday that Europe was looking at us. It does not seem, by the number of countries that keep the borders closed in our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u99	I would like to conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u100	I will finish, Mr. President. But if you are looking at us, it is appropriate that this House should have the courage to strengthen a serious investigation into what has happened.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u101	Mr Cotrim de Figueiredo has now spoken for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u102	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: The Liberal Initiative believes that transparency in public contracts is essential to maintain the regular functioning of institutions no one has doubts. That we've always been, and we'll be interested in scrutinizing business with public money is not at stake either. We believe that this Parliament has not only the power, but the duty to ensure that the government's work has been the most effective and transparent is a certainty. What periods so distressed, of so much legislative production and of so much public procurement, as was the peak of the COVID-19 pandemic, are conducive to compadria, business with friends and the secondaryization of the public interest is also clear. Finally, which has already come to the public news about concrete contracts and transactions, involving government members and people close to power, who raise well-founded doubts is also undeniable. That is why we are in favour of the establishment of a committee which assesses the implementation of the COVID-19 measures, and that is why we voted in favour of the proposals for the setting up of a committee for the same purpose almost two weeks ago. But we do not see what the proposal under discussion today, a committee of inquiry, adds to the political scrutiny of these matters, which will fall perfectly within the framework of the committees already approved.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u103	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u104	And, in so far as they present themselves in this proposal for a replacement of the judiciary or a veiled call for justiceism, we cannot vote for it.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u105	Before passing the floor to the next speaker, the Bureau would like to draw attention to the fact that the intervention time given to the Government does not appear on the timeline. In accordance with Article 235. the Rules of Procedure, the Government has the right to intervene in this debate and in due course requested its intention to do so. You now have the floor on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr André Neves.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u106	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: What I am going to say today is not very different from what the PSD has already said a few days ago, when discussing the draft resolutions aimed at setting up a possible committee to address this issue, too in part. When we talk about the fight against corruption and the transparency of our institutions, we all need to be aware that there is a long way that Portugal still has to go. According to the last Eurobarometer, dated December 2019, 94 % of Portuguese believe that corruption is widespread in the country, 89 % of Portuguese believe that there is corruption in national institutions — 89 % means that 9 in 10 Portuguese believe there is corruption in national institutions — and 88 % of Portuguese consider corruption unacceptable. Many may say that it is just numbers and percentages that portray a perception of reality and not the actual reality. [[Protests by PS Pedro do Carmo.]] Nothing more wrong, because when we talk about corruption, in what concerns it, perception counts and is really important, because it conditions the attraction of foreign investment, undermines trust in institutions, creates insecurity and distrust in society as a whole. [[PS protests.]] in this sense, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let me tell you this: it does not help the perception of the Portuguese and the image of society about corruption to have a Minister of Justice who appoints as deputy a prosecutor punished in a process of corruption. [[Congratulations on the PSD and the Arrival.]] But still as far as this matter is concerned, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, just the simple fact that we imagine, just the simple fact that we assume the possibility of someone, taking advantage of a moment of fragility in our society, a moment of fragility in our country,... [[Protests by PS Pedro do Carmo.]] ... to the detriment of the state itself, to circumvent the law, this is absolutely disgusting, it is absolutely deplorable that we must all condemn and do so that it does not happen. Having said this, it is important to mention the following: first, we cannot be at risk of trivializing or vulgarizing the investigation committees;...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u107	Ah...!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u108	... secondly, it does not seem reasonable to duplicate bodies in the Assembly of the Republic, and what we must do is, within the committee if it is to be constituted, take advantage of this and other matters in absolute and complete scrutiny. Nevertheless, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, if something comes up in this or other context which justifies the need to take stock of the instruments and the functionalities that we have only at our disposal within the framework of a committee of inquiry, nothing will prevent us from returning to this debate. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u109	For an intervention, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u110	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: A few weeks ago the NAP warned here that the times of COVID-19 are a period when the phenomena of corruption do not just disappear as they tend to get worse and to increase. Throughout the world, it has been seen that the effective response to the needs of the health sector and the public sector, in general, has brought vulnerability to the growth of lobbyists, conflicts of interest, bribes or falsification of documents and medical products. Portugal is not free of these dangers and for this we have been warned by GRECO ( Group of States Against Corruption ), the IMF ( International Monetary Fund ), the OECD ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ), the Court of Auditors and the Council for the Prevention of Corruption. Therefore, in the face of the scandals, none of us can say that it has not been alerted. [[Protests by PS Pedro do Carmo.]] Also a few weeks ago, the NAP proposed the establishment of a possible committee which, having sufficient means and powers, would assess these risks of corruption in the field of the exceptional measures of COVID-19, in particular in the field of public procurement, and propose concrete measures that effectively avoid those risks. The vote against the PS and the consistent abstention from the parliamentary left, in particular the Left Block, the PCP and the ENP, ended with the proposal of the NAP and the issues of transparency and combating corruption were unfortunately outside the scope of the possible committee on COVID-19 which was adopted by this Parliament. Thanks to this narrow view of the Socialist Party and the convivence of the parliamentary left, André Ventura has today another media stage to realize that he is concerned about the fight against corruption in our country. We say to pretend because we know that when this Parliament voted for the NAP proposal that proposes the end of the visasgold, one of the great sources of corruption in our country, Ventura voted against joining the PS, PSD and CDS-PP. We do not understand in fact the aversion of the parties that have dropped this proposal, in particular the PS, the PSD and the CDS, and what opacity they want to bring to this process, which should not only be transparent but also ensure parliamentary scrutiny mechanisms. These parties have done nothing more than leave the doors unlocked so that, at each new scandal, new proposals for committees of inquiry arise. This is certainly a fertile stage for populism!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u111	So far, I haven't said anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u112	That was the door that you opened, it was the discredit of public entities. We have seen this film in the case of the 2017 fires, and instead of this Parliament, it preferred to repeat mistakes and make a spin-off of what had already happened. See the example of the Health Directorate-General ( DGS ) negotiation with the company of João Cordeiro, former PS director. Therefore, from the first hour, the NAP sought clarification from the government and requested until independent investigation was carried out, but the Government did not think that it was necessary. We wanted this and other business to be scrutinized,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u113	So are we!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u114	...not because this is the only business with potential problems, but because we understood that these businesses should be evaluated by the possible commission of COVID-19. However, as we have already said, management was reconciled and found that it was not necessary. In view of the lack of transparency of the government and parliamentary management, we will vote in favour of the establishment of this committee of inquiry, although we believe that this proposal is a pure show-off by André Ventura... [[PS laughter.]] ... and that this issue should be dealt with in a broader and stricter manner at its own level, which would be in a committee where possible, without the media circus of a committee of inquiry. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u115	The next intervention is by Mr António Filipe of the CFP. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u116	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: What is proposed today to this House is the same thing as proposing an investigation into the operation of firefighters at a time when the fire is still being extinguished...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u117	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u118	... and in which all efforts must be directed to extinguish the flames and to prevent the fire from spreading. Of course, the proponent's political vocation is not that of the fireman, it's more that of the pyroman! [[Rice from PS Pedro do Carmo's deputy.]] The main concern of the proposer is not that of combating a pandemic, which has already suffered more than 1500 Portuguese and many tens of thousands worldwide. In this regard, as regards measures to strengthen the National Health Service ( SNS ), as regards measures to protect workers' rights in the face of the pandemic, as regards measures to support the most vulnerable social layers and more fragile by the pandemic, what does the proposer propose? Zero! What is not surprising, because it is not expected that a party that enrolled in its Program the extinction of the National Health Service is concerned with the access of populations to health care.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u119	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u120	It is not said that the PCP is not concerned about everything that is going on in the country during this pandemic. The CFP is concerned and has demonstrated this, not by gongoric strips, as much as the proposer likes, but by concrete proposals to solve concrete people's problems. Our goal in this House is not to walk here to shouts to be heard out there; our goal is to contribute here to solve problems of those who are out there and not content with screaming or insistent repetition of atordas and common places. Monitoring and monitoring what is being done to combat this pandemic must be a concern of this House and this concern has existed. The parliamentary committees, within the scope of each one's tasks, have been following the measures to combat the pandemic — in fact, a possible parliamentary committee has been set up which will work for this purpose and even in plenary there have been no lack of discussions and initiatives to this end.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u121	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u122	If it becomes necessary, in the near future that the country's public health situation does not have the emergency characteristics that it still has, here we will not only be available but will be committed to finding out what needs to be ascertained about what went best and what went worse in the fight against the pandemic and we will not exclude any regulatory mechanism for this purpose. Now, priority is the fight against the pandemic and therefore does not have the PCP to align itself with fun maneuvers and political games, at a time when the situation is still of national emergency. [[PCP and PS Members applauded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u123	Mr Telmo Correia has the floor now for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u124	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I should like to say that in the view of the CDS this matter should not be devalued, it should be seen as important, and that, despite a certain public and common criticism of the committees of inquiry, I do not fully follow that criticism. I understand that the committees of inquiry have played an important role. It is sufficient to see the various committees of inquiry on, for example, the bank, which brought facts, brought out revelations, allowed the country to follow up on matters which were not known and which, obviously, did not have the conclusions that some Members had. Ladies and gentlemen, they have not stopped having a relevant role. [[PS protests.]] Or I could also remind a more recent committee, the Commission on the Tancos case, in which everything that it has learned has been confirmed only afterwards, in addition to what the Commission has decided, by justice itself. It was only regrettable that you approved the report against what the Commission has decided. [[Protests by PS MP Ascenso Simões.]] Therefore, the committees of inquiry are useful, important and relevant. However, a committee of inquiry must, in my opinion, be the last ratio. That is why they have exceptional powers, which is why they may, even, have practically parajudicial powers. The CDS proposed here, in fact, the first to do so - and I was the first to do so - in a 15-year debate with Mr. Prime Minister for about a month or so - the establishment of a possible committee to analyze all that is exceptional: exceptional contracts, visa waivers, direct adjustments... Our proposed constitution of the committee may have all that. contrary to what Mrs Inês de Sousa Real said, the CDS proposal has everything and has been approved. And I also tell you that it is not true that the CDS did not vote in favour of your proposal; we voted in favour of all the proposals. If you have any doubts, go see Ata and you'll see that our little vote is in favour. Therefore, the proposal that we have made to establish the committee may not be aimed at examining itself only for the future, but from the very beginning and can examine the entire contract. What I would say is that this proposal from the Commission is late, because there is already a committee created capable of examining this matter, so it would make no sense that we are setting up two committees at the same time. So some Members would go to one committee to examine this matter and others would go to the other committee to examine the same matter? For what purpose? It is clear that the CDS has made it very clear here — and this is in the committee's proposed constitution — that if, during the committee's work, any inquiries are made, together, documents are made, a matter which warrants an inquiry, then we will step up there, but if and only if this is done within the committee. And that committee, if any, has full competence. We all understand the urgency—in fact, we have already asked several times if there was no delay in the acquisition of protective material, etc. , which is another matter that this committee will have to clarify...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u125	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u126	I'm really finishing up, Mr. President. It was necessary to make use of exceptionality in order not to delay. We now need to know how this exceptionality complies with the law, but this will be done within the committee which, in good time, we have proposed and which, in good time, this House has also approved.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u127	The next intervention lies with Mrs Maria Antonio Almeida Santos of the Socialist Party. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u128	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The arrival has now proposed, in full combat of the pandemic we live in, the setting up of an inquiry committee to the procedures for the acquisition of personal protective equipment. The international emergency situation and the well-known shortage of equipment, testing and other materials implied, we all know, the need for simplification of procurement procedures, but this simplification does not mean less transparency or less legality of procurement processes. These legislative measures adopted by the Government, of flexibility in public procurement, were in fact adopted in accordance with the principles of necessity, adequacy and proportionality, taking into account the context of public health emergency and maintaining the solutions based on the Public Contracts Code. But Mr Ventura can rest assured that the Government and our parliamentary group also do not abdicate from public scrutiny and transparency.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u129	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u130	Therefore, this exceptional regime for an exceptional situation, which is unpublished in the world—we have to emphasize well—, not only determines the publication in the Public Contract Portal, such as the preparation and publication of joint reports on the electronic site of the Shared Services of the Ministry of Health of all, the acquisitions and their circumstantialism within 60 days after the period of validity of this exceptional regime.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u131	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u132	He knows that, in this context, exceptional market conditions have been rapidly aggravated, he also knows of the enormous competition between countries, and that there is still limited suppliers in his activity with the spread of the disease and inconsistencies with the closure of the borders. See, at the moment, to request the setting-up of a committee of inquiry, in addition to being extemporaneous in order to achieve answers... Moreover, the text of the parliamentary inquiry refers to « reaching answers on why contracts were made ». Why, sir? Oh, my God! Because it was necessary to save lives in good time! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr President, it is difficult to accept that human health can serve as an excuse for the implicit soundbit policy that the arrival often uses, but that is with the Arrival and we do not follow it. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u133	The next intervention is Mr Moisés Ferreira, from the Left Block. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u134	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The responsibility for monitoring the action of the Government, Mr André Ventura, is permanent in the Assembly of the Republic. Even when the honourable Member is missing from parliamentary work, it exists.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u135	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u136	Even when the honourable Member does not appear in the committees, they do so. That is why it is not worth trying to create another committee, which I would probably miss, to do what I should already do as a parliament. On 10 March, the Director-General of Health was in Parliament, 10 March, the beginning of the epidemic. The Block made several interventions, for example, about the strategic reserve, about what was being done for the acquisition of material, etc. Mr. André Ventura didn't do any. You know why? Missing. On 11 March, the next day, the Minister of Health was in Parliament to discuss COVID-19. The Left Block made several interventions on, for example, the policy to be followed, government actions, etc. Mr. André Ventura didn't do any. You know why? Missing. On 20 May, the Minister of Health was again subject to Parliament's scrutiny and supervision. The Left Block has repeatedly appealed to the Minister of Health on several topics related to COVID-19. Mr. André Ventura did not make any inquiries. You know why? Missing. [[CH protests.]] We know that it is not quite a defect, it is a spell and this happens not only in the Health Committee but in several. But, of course, it is an option of the honourable Member, who favours his hobby of youtuber, rather than his work as a Parliamentary Member in the Assembly of the Republic. [[Congrats from PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u137	They're more charges!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u138	Mr. Member, I don't know if while I was missing this I was working for the tax consultant, making them appear... I don't know! I know I wasn't there. Now, because the debate in Parliament is made of proposals, it is not only soundbite for the 20 000 false accounts it has on the social networks, it is also made of proposals,... [[CH protests.]] ... I would like to take this opportunity to ask you, even taking into account the political programme that you are trying to hide so much, that it would be the answer to the crisis made by Mr. Mr Deputy, who says that « The State is not responsible for the production or distribution of goods or services, whether these education or health services», i.e. it ended with the National Health Service, how would it respond to the epidemic crisis in Portugal? Mr President, your programme says that the solution is double: privatization and health checks. How would I respond to the epidemic crisis with the health check and the privatization of the National Health Service? Mr Deputy, your programme contains the extension of the weekly hours of health professionals, without any increase in wages, as is obvious, the generalization of individual employment contracts or the dismissal of public servants, in particular the National Health Service. How would I answer? Do you not think that, first, it was necessary to investigate what you really think about the National Health Service? We know that Mr. Deputy is a fan of Bolsonaro's clan.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u139	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u140	Mr Member, we do not want common vouchers to respond to COVID, we want to be a National Health Service working. [[Congratulations from BE and PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u141	You have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Under-Secretary of State and Health, Jamila Madeira, to whom the Bureau greets.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u142	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: An effective response to the COVID-19 pandemic required by the Government agile, urgent response capable of providing citizens and health professionals with protection against this pandemic. The context that we are still living today has shown us, indeed, a new reality that we did not know: absolutely exceptional world market conditions; huge competition between countries and we can even say the end of solidarity; limits to the movement of goods; rules of global confinement of workers; close of borders; more varied restrictions on the flow of people and goods. At the most dramatic stage in which the disease continued to spread, the States closed down and each state was completely alone in the world.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u143	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u144	Almost without suppliers, our state, as well as others, had to act. We have used — and we do not agree to say — the joint public procurement mechanism promoted by the European Commission since the first hour and, indeed, it has proved to be ineffective in responding to the additional needs, and it has made the first deliveries at the end of May. However, even in this adverse context, as a government, we always follow best international and national practices and teachings, observing both the recommendations of the European Commission and the Court of Auditors. The urgent and urgent need to acquire equipment and goods exclusively by health agencies, based on public interest, justified an exceptional simplification regime for public procurement, which we have approved.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u145	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u146	Thus, in the Ministry of Health, we created a task force composed of all the agencies of the Ministry, namely the ACSS ( Central Administration of the Health System ), the Infarmed ( National Authority of Medicine and Health Products ), the DGS, the SPMS ( Shared Services of the Ministry of Health ) and the INSA ( National Institute of Health Doctor Ricardo Jorge ) who carried out an urgent survey of the needs of these equipment: medicines, fans, tests, personal protection equipment ; we followed the best recommendations of the Court of Auditors ; we also decided to centralize the purchases of the main goods and promote transparency in the procurement procedures ; we limited price inflation and profit margin and strengthened the means of monitoring through the publication of all the acquisitions. Yes, we require such publication and communications to the Court of Auditors. More: we have established an additional transparency requirement, already mentioned here, with the joint report, which will be carried out within 60 days of the end of the pandemic, so that all Portuguese know why, how, who and under what conditions and circumstances the public resources that are all of us have been used.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u147	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u148	Yes, we live an exceptional period, yet every day we respond to the social communication about the purchases we have made; in the reports on the state of emergency that we have presented here, we have shown the stocks, the purchases and the difficulties that we all face in this pandemic; and here we have always been who called us and here we will always be calling us to provide the necessary clarifications in a serious and objective way, but I say to you, not a pamphlet.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u149	Mr. Secretary of State, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u150	I will finish, Mr. President. Infarmed, ACSS, SPMS, DGS, INSA, our hospitals, ARS (Regional Health Administration ), thousands and thousands of health professionals have never given up on giving the best and on providing the best service to Portuguese in these hard months so that it would be possible. We therefore lend, and we will always lend to Parliament, but we also count on Parliament...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u151	I would like to conclude, Madam Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u152	... in this decision-making process. We have the notion that we have made decisions from which we can say that we are not sorry, but what I can also say is that, if we had not taken them, we would not be talking about how we are doing it today.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u153	Thank you very much, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u154	So we do not follow the finish line, but we are at the disposal of Parliament for today and for the future we will give all the clarifications that Parliament intends to ask for. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u155	To close this item on the agenda, Mr Ventura has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u156	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In fact, no, I wasn't in any consulting office and I wasn't in any local accommodation to deal with anything. In fact, I meant to you, Mrs Catarina Martins... Ah! Excuse me! Catarina Martins isn't here. There are things of the devil! Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u157	But it's been!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u158	You don't learn and want to continue. And in each poll they disappear more and more and more! I don't know anymore: I'm always hitting you, you guys disappear any day! I don't know what you guys want to do! So you're saying I'm not and the leader of the Left Block isn't here? Oh, my God! Mr. President, Mother of Heaven! Oh, my God! They're not good for you either! [[BE's protests.]] Today evening, everyone will see that the Bloc leader, who accuses the leader of enough not to be present, is not in a debate with this importance! Oh, my God! They're not good for you either! At least learn to be good for you! My dear ladies, today there are no hollow and empty answers. We have to decide what we want in this matter. Last week, Rui Rio said he was very concerned about the direct adjustments of the Ministry of Health, and I follow him. Well, we had dozens of direct adjustments, without the publication of that contract or the follow-up report. It's not time for a tidiness about what we want. It's time to say whether or not we want an investigation! In Italy a judicial investigation is under way; in Spain a judicial investigation is under way. And they're both in the middle of the pandemic, [[Protests by PS Deputy Luís Moreira Testa.]] ...the pandemic is not over, fighting for what they want, which is the truth, fighting against corruption and compassion.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u159	We are Members! We're not the judiciary!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u160	We can say several things. In fact, I have heard Mr António Filipe say the following. « One day, when justified, we will speak again about this». Mother of heaven! Oh, my God! ‘One day, when justified’? Oh, my God! We have fans who never arrive, never arrive, we have contracts suggested by government members to former partners,... [[PS and BE protests.]] ... we have — and I will finish — as if it were not enough, a clear number of contracts that we do not know where they come from, where they are going and how they were paid and we say one day perhaps if we should make a committee of inquiry? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u161	Mr. Deputies, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u162	One day it may be justified for the Portuguese to look at this House and see how many times we try to fight corruption and there are obstacles to every part of this path!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u163	Thank you very much, Mr. You want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u164	It was important for the Portuguese to know tonight who was on the right side and who was on the wrong side of this story. [[BE's protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u165	Having concluded this item on the agenda, we move on to the following point, which is part of the joint assessment of Petition No 641 / XIII / 4. a ( Platform « For the Construction of the Feijó Health Centre » ) — For the construction of the Feijó Health Centre and Resolution Projects Nos 478 / XIV / 1. a (BE) — Construction of a health center in Feijó, 485 / XIV / 1. a (PEV) — By building a health center in Feijó — Almada, and 487 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recommends to the Government the construction of the health centre in Feijó, municipality of Almada, Setúbal district. To present the draft resolution of your parliamentary group, you have the floor of Mrs Joana Mortágua, of the Block of the Left.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u166	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First, I wanted to congratulate the Platform « For the Construction of the Feijó Health Centre », the President of the Union of Freguesias do Feijó and Laranjeiro, Luís Palma, and all the petitioners of this petition from which I was rapporteur. This is a subject that I know closely and which is directly related to the right of the population of Almada to access primary health care and the defense of the SNS that so many times—and also now—is proved here to be our great defense trench against this pandemic. The Union of Freguesias de Laranjeiro and Feijó has 47,000 users, half of whom do not have a family doctor. This Union of Freguesias is served by the pre-existing Centro de Saúde de Santo António, in Laranjeiro, a health center known for not having for many years needed human resources — doctors, nurses — for lack of physical and material conditions, for not giving answer and therefore for having long waiting times and also being far away from the populations that need to use. To respond to this need from another health center that could respond to the entire population of the Union of Freguesias, it is available by the House, a decade ago, a land where the promised Feijó health center could be built, but which never happened. When the administrative reform and the Union of Freguesias de Laranjeiro and Feijó, we knew that we would be further away from having public services and closer to seeing the progressive decline in public services of proximity, which was, in fact, the objective of administrative reform and the union of Freguesias. We cannot, however, give up this struggle and this objective which led so many people to sign this petition. That is why the Left Block presents here today a draft resolution to recommend to the Government that it constructs a health centre in the Feijó, that it reorganizes the Health Center of Santo António, in the Laranjeiro, that it hires the doctors and professionals needed to have a family medical team and to make the investment necessary for these health centers to also have the ability to carry out complementary diagnostic examinations. This part is also important, because we know that it is precisely the lack of primary health care in ACES (Assembly of Health Center ) Almada-Sexal which, in addition to harming the right to health of this population, leads to an overcrowding of the Garcia Hospital in Orta. That is why it is so urgent to solve this problem and give the entire population of that region access to a family doctor, and that certainly passes through the construction so promised and that so much lacks a health center in Feijó. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice-President Antonio Filipe.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u167	To present the draft resolution of the ENP, Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u168	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by greeting, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Green Party, the thousands of citizens who have subscribed to the petition we are discussing, greeting which also extends naturally to the Platform for the Construction of the Feijó Health Centre, which promoted and dynamized it. As the petitioners very well point out, the current facilities of the Centro de Saúde de Santo António, in Laranjeiro, are manifestly inadequate to serve the about 47 000 users of the parish of Feijó and Laranjeiro, in the municipality of Almada. The facilities are permanently overcrowded, the waiting times for consultation are too long, and these problems add to the shortage of health professionals. On the other hand, about half of those enrolled in this Health Center do not have a family doctor assigned. To all this it is still necessary to add the shortage of public transport that makes it difficult to travel people, especially those with advanced age, to the Health Centre of Santo António. Now, in view of this picture, many people end up moving to the Garcia de Orta Hospital, which, as it is public knowledge, also has problems of overcrowding, which is why the construction of a new hospital in Sixal is so rightly claimed.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u169	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u170	At the same time, for many years it has been claimed to build a health centre in the Feijó that allows the development of users between the current Health Centre, located in the Laranjeiro, and a new one, in the Feijó. The construction of this new health center would also allow the existence of more health professionals to respond to the needs of the population, in addition to contributing substantially to alleviate the overcrowding of the Garcia de Horta Hospital. As it is public, and has already been mentioned here, for many years the City Hall of Almada has made available a plot of land in the Feijó Civic Center exactly for the construction of this health center.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u171	There's the lawn!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u172	To this end, municipalities, population and actors in the region formed the Platform « For the Construction of the Feijó Health Centre », in order to claim with the Government and, in particular, the Ministry of Health the realization of that health unit, with the due assured investment. at a time when the country verified, by means of the COVID-19 pandemic, the need to create the same objective conditions to strengthen the National Health Service, it is time to lay hands on the work and ensure the construction of a health center in the Feijó, serving there a significant part of the users and creating conditions in the current facilities of the Laranjeiro, for a better functioning of the services provided to the population. In view of what is said, it is only added that the Greens Ecological Party fully accompanies the purposes of the petitioners and brings to the discussion a legislative initiative that meets the objectives expressed in this petition, whose central objective is the construction of a health centre in the Feijó. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u173	To present the draft resolution of the CFP, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u174	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP presents draft resolution No 487 / XIV / 1. the, which recommends to the Government the construction of the health centre in Feijó, in the municipality of Almada, and welcomes the populations, the health users, the workers of the SNS, their organizations. from here we welcome the Platform « For the Construction of the Feijó Health Centre », dynamized by the Union of Freguesias de Laranjeiro and Feijó (and its President, Luís Palma, here present), together with the Movement of Users of Public Services and several local entities. We welcome all the work and struggle they have carried out in the construction of the health centre and we also accompany this initiative and proposal from the CFP, this claim and this petition that they directed to the Assembly of the Republic, signed by 4278 citizens. Although the Constitution of the Republic determines that health is a right of all citizens, profound difficulties persist in accessibility to health care. Since 2013 the Centro de Saúde de Santo António, in Laranjeiro, has responded to the population of Laranjeiro and Feijó. The current facilities are clearly insufficient for more than 47 000 users in their area of influence. According to the data available, in the USF (family health unit) 15 632 users are registered and in the UCSP (custom health unit) 31,164 users are registered, of which 20,630 users do not have a family doctor. In addition to the high number of users without a family doctor, almost 50% of all registered users, the situation is lacking for health workers — doctors, nurses, technical assistants and operational assistants — of high waiting times for consultation, difficulty marking consultations by telephone or any clarification through telephone contact with the units. The need for a health centre in Feijó has long been identified in order to ensure adequate access to quality health care for the population of Laranjeiro and Feijó. About a decade ago, the City Hall of Almada provided a plot for the construction of a Feijó health center in the Civic Center of Feijó. When factors such as population growth, the older population and its difficulties are combined, the lack of public transport and the increased need for health care that the present moment imposes, it becomes even clearer the urgency of this measure. The CFP therefore proposes, with this initiative, that the Government take concrete and urgent action in this area. That is to say: that it progresses with the construction of the health centre in Feijó ; that it adopts the appropriate measures to assign the physician and nurse of the family to all users of Laranjeiro and Feijó ; that it undertakes the hiring of health professionals, including doctors, nurses, technical assistants and operational assistants for the Custom Health Care Unit of Santo António do Laranjeiro and for the Family Health Unit of Feijó ; that it extends the hours of operation of the units during the night and at the weekend; that it strengthens the valences of primary health care, in particular through the provision of equipment for the realization of complementary means of diagnosis and therapy. It is necessary to give a concrete response to the problems of the population, to ensure the right to health and to defend the National Health Service and primary care. That is the meaning of our proposal. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u175	Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, who is currently not in the Chamber, is to intervene, so the word will be given to him later. We then moved on to Mrs Ana Rita Bessa from the CDS-PP. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u176	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by greeting the more than 4000 petitioners of this petition, some of whom are present here, who, since March 2017, have essentially been defending three questions. They are: first, the construction of a new health center in Feijó ; secondly, the reorganization and requalification of the current Health Center in Santo António, in Laranjeiro ; and, finally, the allocation of a family doctor to all users who do not yet have it, a promise from the previous government, not fulfilled, and who are still to be complied with by the current government. The CDS, in Almada, has followed locally the first two concerns which, moreover, do not run out of these fregueses, because, as has already been said here, they end up having consequences, downstream, in the Garcia de Horta Hospital, in their congestion and in the problems we have all experienced in the last few months before the pandemic and which since then have worsened. Specifically in relation to what is requested, and in view of the preponderance of an older population in the parish of Feijó, it is verified that the travels to the health centre of Laranjeiro become difficult, which ultimately results in, in many cases, depriving users of their way to the doctor, knowing that there is a specific and exclusive minibus for the health units, sponsored by the Chamber and whose existence was also proposed by the CDS. We know, on the other hand, as has already been said here, that there is a land given by the City Council, in a place that deserves the agreement of all political forces, for the construction of the health centre. And knowing that the health centre in Laranjeiro is in fact overcrowded, having failed to adequately address the 47 000 registered users there today, of course we accompany and agree with the construction of this new health centre, which will have a list of 16 000 users in charge and will allow the reorganization of the health centre in Laranjeiro to be left with the remaining 31 000. As regards the last issue, the non-registered users, as has already been said, have not yet, in 2020, a family doctor assigned to them. We know that there will certainly be justifications—and the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will certainly be aware of them—but none of these justifications explains the government's failure to seek solutions to hire doctors or even alternative management solutions for local health units. Therefore, with this understanding and this wide range of possibilities, the CDS follows these initiatives and will vote in favour of all that are under discussion today.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u177	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr Filipe Pacheco, of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u178	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group welcomes the 4278 petitioners who brought to this House, as a central subject of this petition, the defense of the construction of a new health centre in Feijó, in the municipality of Almada. The Socialist Party is fully supportive of the demands of the populations of the municipality of Almada, specifically the Feijó and the Laranjeiro, because the concerns they present are legitimate, founded and make all the sense.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u179	And it's from there? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u180	With regard to this petition, three draft resolutions, which are also under discussion here today, have been brought in, by drag, by means of this motion, the immediate construction of this health centre. However, what these draft resolutions begin to demonstrate is, from the outset, a lack of contact with reality, because they pass as "the permanent disinvestment in health in the Setúbal district" or "in a district where supply is increasingly lacking" are not mere opinions about reality, they are merely a lie! Therefore, it is important to remember, of course, two things: first of all, the painful context of disinvestment in the area of health, which the Socialist Party had to recover;... [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u181	... and, secondly, all the recovery in investment in facilities and equipment and the strengthening of the number and appreciation of health professionals, which has been achieved in the Setúbal district, from then on also in primary health care facilities. Or the PCP, the Bloc and The Greens ignore the construction of the health extensions of the Torrão, in Alcácer do Sal, and Alvalade, in Santiago do Cacem? [[Protests by PCP MP Bruno Dias.]] Or the primary health care unit of Sines? Or the recent inauguration of Pinhal Novo's Family Health Unit, which replaced an old facility that worked in a building? Or what will be the new primary health care unit of Corroios, in the Seixal, or the primary health care unit of Baixa da Banheira, in Moita, which will also replace facilities that work in housing buildings?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u182	What about Feijó? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u183	The PS reaffirms again the priority of this government and the PS, in the Setúbal district : to end all health centres in housing buildings, unfortunately, a reality still very present in our district. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by PCP MP Bruno Dias.]] But what these draft resolutions also forget, or pretend to forget, is that the construction of the Feijó health centre is not foreseen in any short, medium or long-term planning instrument, in no State budget, in no investment plan of the regional health administration—nothing! And the truth is that there are already in these plans other renovations, such as those of the health units of Montijo, Quinta do Conde and Sesimbra, the construction of the new health unit of Setúbal, of the new primary health care unit of the Upper Seixalinho. And out there!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u184	What about Feijó? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u185	Speak of the Feijó!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u186	So, and to finish, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I reaffirm that the petitioners' claim is totally legitimate and that the Socialist Party is fully aligned with this concern. And so these petitioners deserve to be treated with respect and seriousness.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u187	Is that where you're from? Oh, my
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u188	But to treat them with this respect and seriousness is not to ensure that the construction of the Feijó health centre is a mere intention or recommendation, it is to ensure that it effectively enters into investment plans on the horizon of this Legislation. That is the commitment of the Socialist Party. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests from BE and CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u189	For an intervention, Mrs. Cristina Rodrigues of the NAP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u190	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, we want to welcome the more than 4000 petitioners who have subscribed to this petition — a petition that the NAP applauds and supports — for bringing this important issue to debate in Parliament. According to data from the National Health Service, the Health Center of Santo António, in Laranjeiro, has 20 doctors, 23 nurses and 15 clinical secretaries and serves almost 47,000 users. These numbers do not mirror, however, the harsh reality that users and these health professionals have lived on a daily basis for almost 10 years, as this health unit has responded since 2013 to the inhabitants of the parish of Laranjeiro, but also to the Feijó. The evidence of human resources parks to serve nearly 50,000 people increases, when we put the more than 20,000 users without a family doctor in the equation! But reality is made of much more than numbers. And this is also composed of a manifestly small space to accommodate properly those who work there and those who are cared for there; of inadequate operating hours; and of lack of proximity to most residents in the Feijó, especially when one speaks of an older population and an area where the public transport service leaves much to be desired. The unsustainable situation of the health centre ends, many times, by pushing users to the emergencies of the Garcia de Orta Hospital, also full of embarrassments, due to the lack of staff and who seeks to give answers much beyond their limits, as we have already discussed in this House. It is curious the similarity of limitations and problems whenever we talk about health in our country, as a result, it seems to me, of a constant disinvestment in our National Health Service, as we have emphasized on so many occasions and how we will continue to do so whenever there is opportunity, because we believe that matter of this importance cannot be forgotten or left to the background. We believe that it is up to the State to ensure the right to health for all citizens, which is translated, above all, into an efficient territorial coverage, with regard to specialized human resources and also to the primary health care units themselves properly equipped. It is in the face of this unsustainable context, and on the edge of the rupture, that the construction of the new health centre is not only unavoidable, as it is the only way to take another step towards the most robust and equipped health services of the proper means. A step in creating a new reality, in which health care is provided in close proximity, with more family physicians assigned, with more qualified professionals not only in the area of health, but also in supporting its functioning, and with all the desirable conditions, so that it can give a capable response to those who need it. Today we talk about the health center in the Feijó. At the beginning of the month, we brought to the discussion the construction of a care unit in the Upper Seixalinho, in the Barreiro. We will continue to work to build a larger network of quality health care that extends throughout the national territory. We hope that the next State Budget will provide the necessary funds to meet the needs of hospitals and all health units. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u191	For an intervention, Mrs Fernanda Velez has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u192	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by welcoming, on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, the petitioners who are in the galleries and through them I also greet the 4278 citizens who are the authors of this legislative initiative, who seek to build the Feijó health centre, stressing that the political participation of citizens is certainly an in-depth reflection of democracy. The theme of this petition brings us a growing and present concern — the provision of primary health care to the population of the Feijó, in the municipality of Almada. The Health Centre of Santo António, in Laranjeiro, is clearly insufficient to provide quality service to users of the Union of Freguesias do Laranjeiro and Feijó, about 47 000, of which 50 % do not have a family doctor. It also adds the shortage of health professionals — doctors, nurses, technical and operational assistants —, demographic depression, population ageing, the shortage of public transport and the impossibility of the Garcia de Orta Hospital ensuring an effective quality response, given its own conditionalisms. Thus, the strengthening of investment in the National Health Service, with the construction of the Feijó health centre, providing it with the necessary means, in human and material terms, must be a priority. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: With regard to the need for the construction of this health equipment, there is a broad consensus of civil society, and apparently of Parliament. It should be noted that, as early as March 2017, three years ago, the Ministry of Health, in response to a parliamentary question, indicated that the need for the construction of the new Feijó health centre was identified in a land transferred by the City Hall of Almada. Here arrived, at the end of five State budgets — five budgets viable by the PS and by the parties of the far-left parliament... [[Protests by PCP Member Bruno Dias and PEV Member José Luís Ferreira.]] There were five Budgets without a project for a land that already exists and that meets the conditions to receive the health equipment. What's missing, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u193	Ten years ago, the government was the PSD!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u194	I tell you: the socialist government lacks political will. And, in the meantime, it will not be possible to meet the fair claims of petitioners, i.e. to give an answer to the level of primary health care — the construction of the Feijó health centre. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u195	There are no further inscriptions for the use of the floor in the debate on this item on the agenda. Meanwhile, Ms.Secretariat Sofia Araújo will do her best to announce the entry into the Bureau of a legislative initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u196	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, you have entered the Office of the President of the Assembly of the Republic, and you have been admitted, Law No 37 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Alter to the Budget Framework Act.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u197	Let us then move on to the fourth point of the agenda, which consists in the assessment of Petition No 651 / XIII / 4. a ( José Carlos Correia et al.) — Nursing career — due to fair appreciation and dignity for the proper transition of nurses, together with, in general, Law Projects Nos 405 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Alter the Decree-Law No. 71 / 2019 of May 27, in order to ensure a fairer transition to the category of specialist nurse by nurses who have performed or perform leadership or head office, 407 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Identification of nursing career ( first amendment to Decree-Law No 71 / 2019 of 27 May, third amendment to Decree-Law No 247 / 2009 of 22 September, and third amendment to Decree-Law No 248 / 2009 of 22 September ) and 447 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Alter the regime of the special nursing career, as well as the nursing career regime in public business entities and health partnerships ( third amendment to Decree-Law No. 247 / 2009 of 22 September 2009 and third amendment to Decree-Law No. 248 / 2009 of 22 September) and with Draft Resolution No. 516 / XIV / 1. a (PA) — For the valorization and dignity of nurses in Portugal. To open the debate, and to present the bill of the Left Block, Mr. Moisés Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u198	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I welcome and thank the thousands of petitioners who, on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, claim — and rightly so — the review of the nursing career. I also take advantage of it to convey the deepest recognition and sincere thanks to the more than 46 000 nurses and to the about 140 000 professionals of the National Health Service who, in these days, more than ever, show how important they are for the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u199	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u200	The Government of the Socialist Party decided to make a unilateral review of the nursing career, which introduced injustices and injustices that are intolerable — unilateral, because without any agreement with professionals or their representative structures. Without any agreement, the government moved in the career, and, in most cases, moved to worse: imposed quotas for progression in the category of specialist nurse, caused all the points of professionals to disappear, making their progression impossible, made unfair transitional rules, in which nurses specialists, with several years of career and with the performance of leadership positions, were placed at the base of the career. And today, ladies and gentlemen. Members, when no one can deny the importance of health professionals or the National Health Service, these injustices seem, and are even more serious. The efforts and work of health professionals are not paid with the League of Champions, they are paid with the appreciation of their careers, with the improvement of their working conditions and with the strengthening of the National Health Service. Health professionals are not asking for hidden prizes « within the four lines », what they want is conditions for doing their work, conditions such as those proposed by the Left Block here, with the bills that bring the debate at this point and in the following, also about the nursing career: fair transitions, which do not impose a career regression on any professional; counting service points for career progression purposes; removing barriers to progress, such as quotas for access to certain categories. This is what we propose in the bills that we bring the debate and vote on the nursing career and that is what we propose for the overall careers of health professionals at the National Health Service. What is required, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is really going from palm to stock. The palms are important, they have been important, they are worthy, the professionals must be recognized by the entire population, but we cannot stay there. We have to move from the palms to the actions, because it is not from back to the Champions League that the health professionals live. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u201	You now have the floor to present the PCP bill, Mrs Paula Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u202	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The first word of the PCP is addressed to nurses, in particular to the Union of Portuguese Nurses (SEP ), whose leaders are here to accompany this discussion, and also to all nurses and all health workers, who have been tireless today in fighting the outbreak, but who have always been tireless, with all their efforts, with all their dedication, to ensure that the National Health Service provides the best health care to their users. And if we highly value nurses, all their work, all their intervention and consider that nurses have to be recognized in their professional performance, we consider them to be exactly with concrete proposals, which we bring today to follow this petition, because it is not enough to say that we value and recognize. This is important, but more important, it is to translate this into valuing nurses' careers, guaranteeing working conditions to nurses and defending the rights of nurses who serve in the National Health Service and who throughout all these years, as I said, have been untiring. Today we are debating this petition because the government unilaterally broke negotiations with the representatives of the nurses and did not meet their demands, did not meet what was being put to it by the workers. The Government imposed a career that does not solve the problems and introduces a set of injustices, such as the limitation and existence of quotas for progression and access to the various categories; the provision of jobs to be occupied by nurses managers, only and only, in units and services where there are at least 10 nurses; the lack of rules on the transitions of previous categories to those currently created, introducing a set of injustices; or the establishment of disparate principles for repositioning in the pay table and their integration of inherent remuneration supplements. We bring here a proposal that seeks to respond to this set of demands, going to meet what nurses put in their struggle and their claims, because we consider that it is not with the devaluation, but that it is, rather, with the valorization of careers, with the enhancement of rights and with the guarantee of the working conditions that we value these professionals and that we value the National Health Service. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u203	To present the draft law of the CDS, you have the floor of Mrs Ana Rita Bessa.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u204	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I cannot begin this speech without dedicating a word of thanks, as has already been done before, to the nurses for all the work and dedication they have had in caring for us in this pandemic, as we do whenever we need it. In particular, we discuss today, here, two petitions that coincide in the essential of what they want: that the special nursing career be valued and that the process of defrosting progressions be reviewed. We begin, of course, by treating the first, Petition No 651 / XIII / 4. the, which has as first subscriber José Carlos Correia. In his name, we greet those who have joined him, more than 8,000 petitioners. Exactly what's at stake here? A negotiation process between the Government and nurses, initiated in 2017, which was closed with the publication of Decree-Law No. 71 / 2019, which has as its heading « Alter the regime of the special nursing career as well as the nursing career regime in public business entities and health partnerships ». They allege to the petitioners, as well as the trade union associations, that the Government unilaterally closed this negotiation process and therefore published the diploma without the agreement and without the fulfilment of the commitments it had previously made with those entities. They also say that the application of this decree-law originated injustices and inequalities among nurses, such as, for example, the absence of remunerative appreciation with the maintenance of the wage grid or the way the counting of points generated the reversal of pay positions and wage inequalities between pairs. The Government has chosen not to give an answer and therefore not to acknowledge these objections and has considered not to resume the negotiation process for itself interrupted. He therefore closed this issue by ignoring the problem that the government has created and that only the government has to solve, because only the Executive has full information and negotiating capacity to do so. Therefore, in this case, as in other special careers, the CDS believes that it is up to the government to assume its executive responsibilities and to resolve the inequalities and injustices it has created or allowed. In addition to these issues, the decree-law also generated interpretative difficulties, with penalizing consequences in the provision of care and nursing career. In particular, by amending Article 7. the Decrees-Laws Nos. 247 / 2009 and 248 / 2009, says that, and I quote, "except exceptional situations, in which the security in nursing care determines other needs, the total number of jobs corresponding to the category of nurse specialist should not be more than 25%. According to the Order of the Nurses, it is not clear from this wording that the 25 % limit applies and that "exceptional situations" will be these. It alleges the Order that, in any case, 25% is a lower limit than the minimum to ensure the needs of specialist nurses and that this is already causing constraints on the accessibility of patients to the proper nursing care, giving example among many, the situation at the IPO (English Institute of Oncology) in Lisbon. Therefore, the CDS Parliamentary Group presents a bill that aims to change this article in order to balance the best interests of both nurses and health institutions, and users, strengthening the autonomy of each institution to determine the specialized nursing framework that best suits its care reality and setting 35% as a minimum threshold, thus ensuring that all users who need access to health care provided by a specialist nurse, as they should and is their right.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u205	To present the draft resolution of the NAP, Mrs Bebiana Cunha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u206	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : There were more than 8000 people who allowed us to discuss today the professional situation of nurses in Portugal. So on the side of the NAP, thank you and our greeting. We follow the concerns of both petitions and bring the discussion a recommendation to the Government to resume negotiations with the entities representing nursing professionals, in order to respond to their demands. We will also support the remaining proposals for the debate. For the NAP, it is more than clear that the publication of the change in nursing career, which entered into force in June 2019, does not justify the necessary appreciation of these professionals. In addition, it is worth noting that the solutions found fell short of the commitments previously made with nurses, their appreciation for a fairer career and the recognition of the importance of personal and professional development. We would like to give some examples: in the nursing category, which includes more than 70% of the professionals, the Government's proposal was to maintain the same remuneration in 2010 ; the occupation of the career as a specialist nurse was limited to 25% of the jobs of the institutions ; the investment of the institutions was reduced by 50% with specialist nurses and by 40% with nurses in management functions ; there is no salary gain in the career transition process ; the transition to the category as a specialist nurse to the receipt of the respective pay supplement and nurses with leadership functions are devalued. We remember that the basic wages of nursing professionals are lower than those of other graduates who perform functions in a hospital context. We recognize that, in the context of COVID-19, much has been said about our health professionals, both performing functions in our country and in other countries. We spoke of the nursing professionals in a completely meritorious way, because they once again showed the fiber that they are made, with their high sense of responsibility and commitment to sick people. In fact, when it comes to health professionals we know that we are talking about at least 35% of nurses and nurses and we can say that they are a significant part of our health professionals. But OECD numbers tell us that the average in other countries is nine nurses per 1000 inhabitants, while Portugal is well below, with four nurses per 1000 inhabitants. If it is too obvious the need to strengthen these professionals in the National Health Service, it is also clear the need to create better conditions for those who are already integrated and ensure the attractiveness of the profession. For the NAP it is clear that the government must give clear signals to our nurses, in addition to the palms and the praises, in addition to quick thoughts and games of champion leagues, it must treat our nursing professionals with dignity. We understand, moreover, that the minimum that the Government can do is to dialogue to solve the problems identified by these professionals, and that is why this is the proposal we are bringing here.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u207	For an intervention, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u208	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is of the most fundamental justice to devote this "liberal minute" to all nurses and all nurses in this country. The Portuguese miracle with which the government so much likes to fill its mouth does not consist of the embarrassing reality of being from countries that, at the same time, are less decoupled and less controlling the pandemic. The real miracle is that tens of thousands of health professionals have found in their professional and civic conscience the motivation to give everything, risk everything, irrespective of everything in defense of everyone. That is the true miracle for which we should be grateful. Among these professionals we have to highlight nurses, the true cornerstone of our health system. during this battle for the health of all, nurses and nurses went through the greatest trials so that life could prevail. The nurses had every reason to be angry. In the last 25 years nothing good has happened in your career. In the last 25 years, almost always with the left in power, precisely those who say that the more they defend them, there has been no economic growth. Without liberal economic growth policies it will not be possible to sustainably improve the conditions for nurses, whether they work in the private and social sectors, or work in the SNS. And especially to the latter, whose merit is never rewarded and so often not even evaluated, is due to special recognition. His heroism happens not because of the SNS, but despite the SNS. The gratitude that we should all express to nurses in this country only makes sense in one way: a reform of the SNS and the health system, which gives freedom of choice to Portuguese. Only in this way can we give Portuguese health care that they deserve, give nurses and all health professionals the best working conditions.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u209	For an intervention, Mrs Telma Guerreiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u210	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Compliance, on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, the first subscriber of this petition, which seeks the fair appreciation, dignity and proper transition of nurses, and in this compliance to Mr. José Carlos Correia, I comply with the 8007 petitioners who joined him. I also take this time to thank all the nurses and nurses who have been in these days, and continue, in this front that protects us all every day, and that was not only now in this pandemic, they were already there. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As it is the first time that I follow a petition in plenary, I take the opportunity to take myself as a defender confesses this instrument of civic participation. I very much respect all those who mobilize for a cause, with a constructive spirit and, regardless of the results, believe that we always win with the process. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This petition was filed in September 2019. There was a possible and conscious discussion at the time because these professionals knew that a path of problem resolution and reduction of other problems in the SNS was made, with four years of governmental action of the PS. It is natural that many of us do not remember what happened in the SNS between 2011 and 2015. After healing the backwardness, what we want most is to advance and improve. The conscience of those who have signed this petition is that of those who have not forgotten and know well the improvements and recovery in the SNS and therefore have clearly taken advantage of this opportunity to claim improvements for their professional careers, and this will always be a legitimate struggle. With greater or lesser agreement on some aspects, the struggle for professional valorisation will always deserve the respect of this parliamentary bench, not one of the priority axes of the State budget by 2020: the motivation and appreciation of professionals. in these five years of socialist governance, much has been done to make this appreciation felt in the lives of professionals and, as a result, in the lives of Portuguese and Portuguese. Is this valuation process finished? He's not. Is there much to do? Of course I do. We have all humility in recognizing it, but we also recognize that it is impossible to solve all the problems simultaneously and it would be dishonest on our part to say that at this stage of enormous demand for the country it is possible to respond positively to all the proposals. But in this way, the way the Socialist Party has come over this time to show and to give signs that it values the careers of professionals, we clearly have to tell the petitioners that we fully agree with the claim regarding the fair transition to the category of nurse specialist in charge of leadership and leadership. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We agree with the importance of resolving this gap in the law, ensuring justice for these professionals and thus contributing to the good functionality of the SNS services, starting with the meaning of their organic. Therefore, we trust that one more step will be taken in improving and valuing professionals, because health is becoming valued by the SNS, and it is certainly with this government and with these discussions that we will continue. Thank you very much to the petitioners for bringing this issue to Parliament. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u211	Let's see tomorrow at the vote! Tomorrow I want to see the PS voting in favor!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u212	For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Silva has the floor. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u213	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members:I begin by greeting all the nurses who were on the front line during the most complicated phase of the pandemic, all those who were affected by the virus in their functions, but who, aware of the need, returned to their function as soon as possible. I would like to greet the nurses who, even living situations of injustice, dedicate themselves to their profession and inevitably contribute to the success of the SNS response. The petition, with more than 8,000 signatures, which calls for the fair appreciation and dignity of the nursing career, recalls, once again, the widespread dissatisfaction of nursing professionals with the changes to their career. Its functions are performed in demanding circumstances, with extensive working hours and reduced breaks, under conditions of high exposure to the infection, especially in the first phase of the epidemic outbreak, where the essential individual protective equipment were scarce. Over the past few months, Portuguese have been to the windows and balconies to beat palms deserved in solidarity to health professionals, with the certainty that they are doing their duty, even with natural fear, even with the removal of family and friends, but with all delivery so that the National Health Service would leave no one without care. Many of those who beat palms, from the Prime Minister to the President of the Republic, know that the nurses' struggle for career dignity and access to their rights is not today. The various governments chose to invest in the SNS and, consequently, in their professionals. The country needs motivated and committed professionals. With the same commitment the State must respond before them, ensuring principles of equality and protection in its professional exercise. The palms must now be transformed into rights and wages. Today we continue to hear stories of mass emigration of Portuguese nurses who have sought a better life, who have found recognition in working conditions and wages outside their country. It is time for the Government to follow up on Decree-Law No 71 / 2019. The Greens will therefore follow the projects that guarantee the rights of all nurses. [[Protests by PS Pedro do Carmo.]] Nurses are fundamental in the SNS, they are the guarantee of a public service of quality and for all. To achieve this, it is necessary to provide the National Health Service with the number of nurses needed, combat the precariousness and integrate them into valued and dignified careers, with adequate and motivated remuneration to perform this indispensable public service. These are the conditions that allow the National Health Service to defend and strengthen, so it is necessary that this appreciation be made. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u214	For an intervention, you now have the floor of Mrs Carla Barros.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u215	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We begin by welcoming all the subscribers of this petition, with the theme « Nursing career – for the fair appreciation and dignity for the proper transition of nurses », which aims to appeal to the correction of some aspects that are negatively affecting the professional development of nurses. All the Portuguese nurses, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD addresses a word of appreciation and gratitude for all they do and have done in the fight against this pandemic. We must not fail to mention what is today's incident of Mr. Prime Minister by offering the honourable Member as a merit prize. Nurses, the Champions League game. Of course, the PSD cannot embark on this play and, in a serious and credible attitude, presented a draft resolution recommending to the Government that it implement concrete measures of recognition to all professionals of the National Service of Health, we therefore call on all parties in this Parliament to join this debate in a positive way and to enable this initiative. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, all the initiatives that have been "draged" with this petition will have a outcome that will be the responsibility of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u216	Oh, is it? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u217	Yeah, yeah! They will have an end to the responsibility of the Socialist Party, because the Socialist Party must have the ability to ensure today, in this Parliament, that the Government will resume the dialogue, will resume the calendar of meetings, will resume the collective negotiation with nurses. It is that, during the term of office of this government, there has not yet been a single meeting and the pandemic cannot be an excuse for everything, because, from November to March, there has been no pandemic, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. [[Protests from PCP MP João Dias.]] Therefore, the decision is in the hands of the Socialist Party, who will have to tell this Parliament whether or not the government will continue to turn its back on nurses so that we can enter into an assertive dialogue here. Our position is that, because of the technical and budgetary density involved in this area of career mix, this issue is much better dealt with within the government than in Parliament, like the experiences we have had. In view of this, it is necessary to treat the nurses properly, who were very mistreated by this Government of the Socialist Party. [[PS Member Protests Hortense Martins.]] The Order of Nurses, the unions of nurses, all saw the government of back turned to the nurses and their representatives. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u218	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u219	We must not forget, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have to deal with all nurses with equality and justice. We cannot forget that we have nurses with individual employment contracts and nurses with employment contracts in public functions. It is necessary to find a management of human resources, a management of these professionals to allow them, on the one hand, to approach themselves, in the exercise of their rights and in their protection, so that they are all treated equally. Health, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a very precious thing and nurses are a very important asset. [[Protests by PS Pedro do Carmo.]] Therefore, the PSD will always be next to these professionals today. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u220	Mr André Ventura has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u221	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by thanking and greeting the petitioners, nurses and also the work of the Order of Nurses, which, in this matter, has been very important. Mrs Telma Guerreiro, I have to tell you the following: I know that this is the first time that you are the rapporteur of a petition, but you have done so, forgive me, with much inadequacies, because what you should have said was how the PS will vote tomorrow. That's what people liked to know. [[Protests by PS Pedro do Carmo.]] The honourable Member said this extraordinary phrase: "Only the PS...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u222	Excuse me!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u223	Speak down, Mr. Deputy! You're talking too loud! Listen out there!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u224	Mr. Deputies, please proceed.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u225	Mrs Deputy said that the PS, and only the PS, guarantees the dignity and appreciation of careers. In Sweden, Germany and Austria there are increases for nurses and in Portugal the Prime Minister gives them Champions as a prize. It must be a very strange appreciation! Open... At the peak of the crisis, on April 5, the government made a contract with nurses for four months to earn 6, 42 € per hour. It must be a very strange appreciation of the Socialist Party! Open... The Socialist Party, because it does not like the present Nurse Order Office, has moved — excuse the expression — a true persecution of the Bastonaria, often personal, that nurses do not deserve. [[Protests from BE MP Jorge Costa.]] Therefore, it is not clear where the Socialist Party is valued in relation to nurses. And nurses deserved at least once that the Socialist Party's government could give a little more than football games in relation to their career.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u226	Mrs Paula Santos still has 4 seconds and wants to use them, so I ask you to be brief. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u227	Mr. President, thank you and I will try to be brief. It is true that we have a number of problems here, and therefore we have brought forward proposals and solutions for its resolution. It is important that all those who have said today that they value nurses can then, in practice, translate this into the adoption of a set of measures that enable them to solve concrete problems that these workers, these nurses, brought us. Let us also say the following: if today we have nurses with individual employment contracts and public employment contracts, there are, in fact, several responsibilities in this, and they are not from the CFP,... [[Protests from PSD Members.]] ... because we brought here proposals to put an end to these inequalities and PS, PSD and CDS systematically rejected them. But I put here another question:...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u228	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u229	I will even end, Mr President, by saying that there is only one issue that needs to be resolved right now, because these workers who have been infected in the context of the outbreak of COVID have a professional disease and have had a differentiated treatment at the heart of professional disease. We will see how they will vote on our proposal, whether we are going to end inequalities or whether they will be maintained. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u230	Mrs. Members, we conclude the assessment of Petition No 651 / XIII / 4. together with the Law Projects Nos 405 / XIV / 1. a (BE), 407 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) and 447 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) and with the Resolution Project No 516 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN). We will move on to the last point of our agenda, which is from the assessment of Petition No 653 / XIII / 4. a ( Portuguese Nurses' Union) — Disengagement of progressions - by just counting points to all nurses, together with, in general, Law Projects Nos 403 / XIV / 1. a (BE) — Change the regime of the special nursing career, in order to ensure pay positions and career progressions more fair and consistent with the recognition that nursing professionals deserve and 406 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Consideration of all points for the purposes of defrosting careers. To present the bill of BE, Mr. Moisés Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u231	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to congratulate, again, the petitioners, who are more than 8000, to add to the 8000 of the previous petition, to have an idea of the size of this problem. I would like to say that, today, we have heard here about the nursing career, and more or less cross-sectionally, everyone thanking nurses, everyone thanking health professionals, everyone thanking the National Health Service, everyone saying that applause is worthy, they are fair, they must exist, everyone saying that they should have recognition, etc. and, therefore, at this time, what is required is that they be consistent with the words. All parliamentary groups, more or less cross-sectional and unanimous, thanked the nurses and, now, in coherence, will have to approve the bills that are under discussion. It's the only thing you can do! They should not do, perhaps, like the PSD, which has been disseminating a draft resolution to recommend to the Government that they give a certain premium to health professionals, but then in their intervention, said « well, all this is very fair, but we, here, have nothing to do with it... »...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u232	And we don't!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u233	... «... it will have to be the government to negotiate with the professionals ». It doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u234	Do it, do it!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u235	...because this is a brutal inconsistency with what I had said. But they should also not do as the Socialist Party, who recognized the importance, but did not recognize that it would advance with amendments, for example, or that it would approve the bills that are under discussion to end a series of injustices in nursing career. Now, I believe that nursing professionals, as well as all the professionals of the National Health Service, are certainly tired, not only by fighting the epidemic, but also because, over several years, they have heard beautiful words that then do not translate into concrete acts. What the Left Block wants to happen, and that is why it presents bills on the subject, is that everything translates into concrete acts. Our initiatives are not just a recommendation for negotiation, nor do we say that there are others to negotiate. We are in the Assembly of the Republic, with legislative power, with draft laws presented and therefore we can solve the problem. The question is this: they want to solve the problem, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, do you want to maintain the problem? We, for our part, have no doubt: we have presented bills to ensure the counting of all points of service, for a rapid progression of professionals; we have presented bills to ensure that there is no career regression in transitions between categories; we have presented bills to end quotas that limit vertical progression between categories. This is what's on the table by the Left Block. Those who say that they value health professionals have only one solution: vote in favour. Or, then, is a deep hypocrisy. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u236	To present the PCP bill, Mr. João Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u237	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I want to greet the Union of Portuguese Nurses and their leaders and, through it, also greet the more than 8500 subscribers and all the Portuguese nurses who certainly see themselves in these two petitions that were appreciated here this afternoon. in this petition, in particular, they call for measures to correct the deep injustices and inequalities related to « non-counting points » in relation to the period of service prior to the wage adjustment carried out in 2011, 2012, 2013 and 2015. SEP did not give up and PCP did not! That is why your fair demands are consistent with the proposals of the CFP and welcome our greatest solidarity. That is why we accompany this petition with a bill that consecrates the counting of all points obtained during the period of career freezing, for all nurses, regardless of their contractual link. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a tremendous injustice that is placed in about 17,000 nurses. We are talking about nurses, many of whom with 18 years of exercise, who remain in 1. The ladder of the race! We are talking about nurses who, in a typical way, are hired under individual employment contracts, not because of their will, but because successively the governments have prevented them from entering into public employment contracts, and who, however, perform public functions. We are talking about nurses who, as a result of the application of the law, moved to the 2009 career and were positioned in 1. The ladder of the career. There was no other step below that! This is the minimum salary of nurses! What was the government's decision? Clear the time of service and do not count the points they held at the time of the transition to the new career. And it wasn't any progression or even any promotion, which was a transition to the new nursing career. This situation is even more unfair because the points regarding the time of service only of nurses with individual employment contracts are eliminated. Well, we can't afford it, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, that the professional life of these nurses, years and years of experience, and that the "counter at zeros" is eliminated, thus creating injustices, contributing to the professional, social and remuneration devaluation of nurses. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Health professionals and nurses have long been on the front line. What the COVID came to bring is nothing new for health professionals. Whether in the hospital context, either in the context of primary health care, they face, daily, situations of great physical, psychological and emotional demands. If today we can beat the health professionals and the nurses of the SNS is because someone fought for him, and health professionals and nurses are the first to fight for the SNS. When they require better working conditions, when they require more means, when they require more equipment, when they require more professionals in the services, they are fighting for the National Health Service and for the improvement of the care they provide to the population. We must therefore defend them and support them. The PCP reiterates here its commitment to always: defending and valuing the work and workers of the National Health Service. Portuguese nurses can count on the PCP. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u238	You now have the floor for an intervention by the CDS-PP, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u239	Mr President, first of all, I realized that I recently used more time than it was due, so now I will shorten my intervention to make good use of that same time. I think it's in everyone's interest.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u240	Thank you, Mrs. Deputy. It counted on the tolerance of the table, but, in any case,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u241	Now, I'm going to pay back.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u242	The conduct of the work thanks you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u243	I suppose so, Mr. President. As I have already said, Petition No 653 / XIII / 4. the, which is now discussed, affects matters identical to that of the previous petition and therefore we greet, in the same terms, the Union of the Nurses of Portugal and, on its behalf, the 8500 petitioners who join in this petition. As I said, the CDS-PP reiterates the position expressed in relation to the previous petition and also reiterates the proposal that brought the discussion. I have even felt that our position is strengthened, since, after hearing the speech of Mrs Telma Guerreiro, with a rather humble but also quite committed attitude, it seemed to me, if I understood correctly, that she had opened the door to the continuation of trade union negotiations with the government. In some ways, that is exactly what the government is supposed to do, which is the solution to unlock the situation and the mistakes it has made in the meantime. Therefore, Madam Member, I hope that it will move all its influence to ensure that the Government will react as soon as possible to negotiations with the trade unions so that Parliament, as the PSD Member Carla Barros has said, will not have to assume responsibility for taking decisions on the basis of information it does not have and for the government to take on its role and correct the mistakes it has made.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u244	To date, the Bureau no longer registers. If any parliamentary group that wants to intervene with time will be able to sign up. [[Pause.]] The Bureau was informed that Mrs Telma Guerreiro of the PS intends to sign up for an intervention. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u245	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Congratulation, because I had not yet been able to do so - the representative of the Union of the nurses of Portugal and, of course, all the petitioners who subscribed to this petition. But I cannot begin my speech — and even I will give up a little of what I have written — without replying to some Members. Mr. André Ventura, nurses do not live from their slogans, nurses live from real and sustainable perspectives and proposals. That's what nurses live for! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Madam PSD Member, the nurses and the nurses in our country have memories!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u246	Yes, they do!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u247	They know perfectly well who sent them emigration, who cut them wages, who cut a very significant SNS word. You nurses know! [[P.S.'s applause.]] The appreciation of nurses is not limited to recognition with palms. We also applaud, of course, but valorization is not done with only palms. It is also not only about prize proposals, but also about real and structural recognition! It is not today that the Socialist Party values health professionals. The Socialist Party always values them, because we have a structural vision of human resources enhancement, and this is not beautiful words. The Socialist Party’s action is not only about beautiful words, it is about very concrete things! The policies of the previous government and the continuity policies of this government allowed the recovery of the SNS, made it possible to restore the 35 hours of work of nurses,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... with the defreezing of careers, they created the Return Program, which aims to bring back to our country all the nurses who were sent to emigrate by the PSD government and the CDS, increased the number of nurses in the SNS and the number of health professionals and have come to recognize their careers. And we will certainly take steps to continue doing this work. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests from PSD MP Carla Barros.]] That's worth it, because it doesn't leave anyone alone. Increases the number of professionals, and this work will continue. The Government has planned an increase in the State budget for this year of 8400 health professionals. Now, in the pandemic, the government has managed to integrate 1000 nurses, who have actually been hired immediately and are not yet hired definitively, but if the services signal this need there is the possibility of continuing these services. There is an Economic and Social Stabilization Programme that once again enhances health professionals. So I would say that we have a government, a Parliament and a bench of the Socialist Party that bets and values health professionals and will obviously not forget this mission. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u248	Mr. André Ventura entered, to speak. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u249	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I did not intend to intervene, but after hearing this brilliant intervention by the Socialist Party, I felt almost obliged to do so. Mrs. Member, what I told you was that it is a bit contradictory to say that only the PS values nurses, when there are nurses who took possession of 2009 contests and who, today, have not passed; when there are nurses with more than 20 years of career who are winning the same as some who have entered now; when what they have to give to nurses is Champions League. Mr President, if I may, I will make a suggestion to the Member of the Socialist Party: since we both like football — I think you also like — why does the government not offer all nurses a ticket at the end of the Champions, since, of course, there will be no fans at the stadium? It's a bit like this negotiation: the PS gives with one hand what it can't give with the other. The other parties, in this case the PSD and the CDS, sent nurses to emigrate. Nothing your Prime Minister had done about teachers, for example! Mrs. Deputy, I ended with a sentence by José Socrates of 2010 when the nurses' career was negotiated. The engineer then said this: "We are in the negotiation of good faith. The PS never forgets and will always come back to the negotiating table. Returning to the negotiating table is almost a PS heritage ». I became aware of these words of Eng.o José Socrates.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u250	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u251	Today, it was time for the PS to remember its previous leader and return to the negotiating table. [[Protests by PS Deputy Luís Moreira Testa.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u252	Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira, from the PSD, signed for an intervention. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u253	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Compliance on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, the more than 8500 subscribers to the petition under consideration, again taking advantage of the time for, on behalf of the Social Democratic Party, to express and to lend our appreciation, gratitude and recognition to all health professionals, particularly nurses, for their unique and remarkable work they have developed during this struggle to the pandemic and because of the circumstances of revealing their professionalism, their spirit of sacrifice and their sense of duty. I would point out to Mr Moisés Ferreira that our appreciation is not for the words. It is precisely in the name of this appreciation that the Parliamentary Group of the Social Democratic Party presented to this House a draft resolution, recommending to the Government the materialization of a set of measures aimed, exactly, at the recognition of all Portuguese to the workers of the National Health Service involved in combating the pandemic. [[Protests by BE Mésos Ferreira.]] As my colleague and companion Carla Barros has already mentioned here, this issue has a technical dimension and a budgetary dimension that puts in the hands of the government the primary responsibility for correcting the injustices he himself has created! [[PSD applause.]] [[PS Protests and PCP MP João Dias.]] The government is in possession of all the information, and it is the government that has the negotiating capacity. Unfortunately, the government has declined its responsibilities, interrupted the negotiation process with the unions, with whom it has not met since November last year.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u254	You sent us away!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u255	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, between November and March a long time ago. Apologies for the pandemic do not serve everything and certainly do not serve this purpose. Health professionals are today the heroes of the Portuguese, but they were already in the past, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen! But unfortunately, in the past, they have not always been treated as such by the Government of the Socialist Party and the Socialist Party! [[PS protests.]] I remember, Mrs Telma Guerreiro — listen to me, Mrs Deputies, because it is you who will now address me — that it was this government which, for the first time, ordered a syndicate to an order of nurses! [[PSD and CH applause.]] I remember, Mrs Telma Guerreiro, who was this government which for the first time cut off institutional relations with the Order of Nurses. I remember, Mrs Telma Guerreiro, who was this government that refused to negotiate with the Order of the Nurses, because it considered this a criminal act! Do you remember, Mrs. Member? Do You Recall?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u256	All right! Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u257	During the period when the offenses were discussed to health professionals, the Minister of Health said: « Aggressions are verbal, and they are nurses». Thus, verbal assaults do not count, and how nurses are still less! Open... You come to say that the Government and the Socialist Party value nurses and value and dignified nurses' career! You're so wrong, Mrs. Deputy! [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u258	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u259	Mrs Telma Guerreiro, it is time for the government and the Socialist Party to take the path to correct the injustices they themselves have created. It is time to value the career of nurses and to stop talking about bullshit—which is nothing else—such as the one we heard yesterday at the end of the Champions...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u260	Calm down, Mr. Deputy. Calm down, otherwise you still have to come a nurse.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u261	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies. It's been a long time since.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u262	I will finish, Mr. President. I said, it's bullshit conversation that was given yesterday, according to which the end of the Champions, in Lisbon, is a prize to health professionals! But what prize? What's this prize? Are you going to offer nurses tickets to watch the games in a stadium? Oh, my God! Is that it, Mrs. Member? Oh, my God! [[PSD applause.]] Madam Member, let me appeal to you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u263	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude. You've exceeded your time in a lot.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u264	I'll finish. You're absolutely right, Mr. President. I leave a final appeal to the Socialist Party and the Government: stop talking! Stop bullshitting! Leave this electoral demagogy! [[PSD and CH applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u265	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have thus closed the debate on the last item on our agenda today, which has begun to be peaceful, but it has been heated. Mrs. Sofia Araújo will tell us about Mrs. Members who followed us away by videoconferencing. You have the floor, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u266	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I inform the House that Mr. Paulo Porto, the PS, of the circle of Fora da Europa, attended today's plenary meeting by video conference. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-18.u267	Mrs. Members, I inform you that our meeting tomorrow will start at 10 a.m. and that the first item will be the debate on the appeal to the Government 4 / XIV / 1. the, required by the PCP, on protection, rights and wages of workers, in the current economic and social context. the second point is 1. the Supplementary Budget of the Assembly of the Republic for 2020. On the third and final point, the vote will take place. We have thus concluded our work for today. I wish everyone a good night. Members and officials. See you tomorrow. The session is closed. [[It was 18 hours and 2 minutes.]]
