ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, Mrs. Officers of authority. Let's start the plenary session. [[It was 9 hours and 2 minutes.]] Before we begin our work, I ask Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha to report the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President. Very good day to all and to all. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members have entered the Bureau and have been admitted the following legislative initiatives: Resolution Projects Nos 726 / XIV / 2. a ( CH), 727 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ), 728 / XIV / 2. a (BE), 729 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) and 730 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) ; and Draft Law No 568 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN). That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u3	from the first item on today's agenda there is an urgent debate required by the PSD Parliamentary Group on the theme "the current economic and social situation in Fatima, council of Ourem". To open the debate, Mr João Moura of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: The PSD has called for this urgent debate so that this Parliament can respond to an emergency situation. Allow me to address all and all colleagues from all political forces, from left to right, Catholics, atheists, agnostics, whether religion or party is. What I want to convey here today will only be properly interpreted and achieved if we can all free ourselves from any political or religious prejudice for a short time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u5	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u6	This House allows us to be different, but does not force us to be. Portugal, in its whole, is experiencing very complicated moments of its history, due to an enemy that is common to all of us. There is no one here, nor outside, who is not united by the same cause: to fight this invisible enemy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u7	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u8	But if the whole country, if the whole economy, if all the tourism, in Portugal, is suffering, why bring here this urgent debate to talk specifically about tourism in Fatima and in Fatima? It is exactly the answer to this question that I want you here today to try to give these brief minutes, through the real and dramatic description of what is being lived in the city of peace. I want to share with you, in this Chamber, and with the country, what I am going to watch and hear from local entrepreneurs and thousands of workers who, if we do nothing, have their jobs at risk. Fatima has the availability of about 10,000 beds, in hotels of three and four stars. Fatima offers a total of close to 20 000 beds in nearly 300 hotel establishments. All of them are micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. In Fatima, there are no hotels in large international chains, as the hotels are mostly owned by family companies. Religious tourism is an important reason why people travel around the world. Religious tourism exists and is a value for Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u9	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u10	Fatima is a brand in the world. As is commonly said, Portugal is known to have « Fatima, football and fado». Thus, 90% of the religious tourists who come to Portugal come because of Fatima — go through other destinations, it is true, but Fatima is the focus of the trip. in a normal year, e.g. 2018 or 2019, Fatima received 6 million pilgrims per year. of these, slept in Fatima 1 million people, of which 70% were foreign. Another specificity of Fatima tourism is that tourists who sleep in the city travel in groups, groups organized by tourist operators. Today we know of the constraints imposed by COVID on people in groups. These groups consist mostly of people over 65 years of age, exactly the age of higher risk for COVID-19. Of the 700 000 tourists who slept annually in Fatima, what was its origin? Most of them came from the Asian continent, in particular from North Korea and China ; from Europe, in particular from Italy and Spain ; and from the American continent, in particular from the United States of America and Brazil. Of all these countries, as you can imagine, since the COVID-19 pandemic emerged, the cracks have been around 99% — I repeat, there have been 99% breaks! I recall that at Fatima, since the beginning of the pandemic, the local, civil and religious authorities have consistently complied with all the recommendations of DGS ( Directorate-General for Health ). The pilgrims were also exemplary in their compliance with the rules, some of which were considered excessive but always respected. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: If, despite the description of the dramatic situation I have told you here today, a specific and unique case of the national economy and tourism, even though the political and religious prejudices do not allow you to understand the reasons for this urgent debate, so that we can together find solutions, I am aware of the serious consequences for entrepreneurs, but especially for thousands of workers who may fall into unemployment. The PSD called for this urgent debate with the presence of the government, so that Parliament and the country can discuss and know the reality, so that the government can now take specific measures for workers and businesses, either through tax reliefs, either by creating credit lines, or through periods of greater shortage, or by increasing more funds for the tourism area. We are at the right time to do so: the discussion of the State budget. This is a truly important discussion, unlike the entertainment maneuvers around the discussion of mobile applications.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u11	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u12	Finally, let me tell you the following: apart from the large tourist hub in Portugal, Fatima is guaranteed one of the cities with the largest number of institutions of social solidarity, where daily, professional and voluntary support is provided to thousands of needy people from all over the country. The day Fatima calls upon the country to help its dramatic economic and tourist situation, is the same day that Fatima assumes that it is in a position to give the country a positive response in the social sector, an area in which unfortunately the country increasingly needs that response. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u13	Mr António Gameiro, from the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: As we all know, the pandemic that struck Portugal and the world has resulted in an unprecedented crisis in our recent history. This serious public health problem has led to an inevitable economic crisis in the productive tissue and in the business sector and the council of Ourém and religious tourism in Fatima, the peace altar, have been seriously and in particular affected. For this reason, the sustainability of businesses and jobs, jobs, has been a priority of this government since the first hour, and so many legislative measures have been taken. The Council of Ministers approved amendments to the exceptional and temporary measures relating to the pandemic of the disease COVID-19, relating to the protection of the credits of families, businesses, private institutions of social solidarity and other entities of the social economy. Let us not forget some support already granted, for example: the launch of several lines of credit with public guarantee, some of which are directed particularly towards the tourism sector; within the framework of the Community funds, a set of measures related to the acceleration of payments of incentives; with the deferral of benefits relating to reimbursements; with reimbursements of expenses for events cancelled due to the pandemic and with the eligibility of actions in the assessment of the contractual objectives which have not been possible to achieve for the same reason and, above all, in the area of tourism; the flexibility of tax obligations, with the extension of the deadline of certain taxes; an exceptional and temporary scheme of simplified layoff; the suspension of banking moratoriums, with the aim of relieving the undertakings of their responsibilities in relation to banking and preventing possible non-compliance. As we know, this pandemic has drastically affected the circulation of people and has almost prevented the movement of people between countries, so it becomes evident that religious tourism is one of the areas most affected by the pandemic. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is undeniable how much effort the Government has made to try to support and revive the Portuguese economy. Now, the PSD has called for this urgent debate, which is considered very timely and important, but has devalued this pandemic framework and seems to ignore the various initiatives that have been found to reverse this crisis. It seems to be unknown, for example, that tourism in Portugal opened a new edition of the Call Tourism initiative, with 10 million euros, to identify investment opportunities in projects that contribute to the competitiveness of the country's tourist offer, which improve the tourist experience in Portugal or promote the efficiency of companies in the sector. It is very important for Portuguese to have confidence in domestic tourism, as an aid to the recovery of the sector in the face of the pandemic. Around the world, people no longer feel at ease to catch an airplane, enter a train, go by boat or even by car out of their comfort zone, so it gained more importance to create instruments that contradict this trend. If we are interested in religious tourism, we also find that this sector has deserved decisive contributions to improve the chances of sustainability of the various operators. Fatima has always had periods of great concentration of national and foreign tourists. Fatima is a brand so or more known that the brand Portugal. The pandemic crisis has necessarily prevented this massification of tourists, with inevitable consequences for the various operators of Fatima, the municipality of Ourem, my region and our region. Sectors such as restoration and accommodation felt, as a result, abrupt customer falls, resulting in an exponential increase in unemployment in this area. The economy of the hotel sector, trade and restoration of Fatima is facing a very, very slow, and based only on the national market. Tourists arriving at Fatima are only from the internal market and in a very, very small or even demanding quantity. The external market represents 70% for the hundreds of hotels and local accommodations that score the city and the region, since most Portuguese visit Fatima as a hiker, returning home at the end of the day. The accounts are at least 700 000 sleepers that, this year, the sector gives almost as lost, without prospects or deadline for recovery, this number which indirectly affects trade, restoration and the local economy. Without flights and with still closed borders, there is little to do, remaining to Fatima entrepreneurs anxiously look at the evolution of the pandemic before looking at the total value of the invoice, so they appeal to the attention and help of the government! Tourism is from the sectors, but the sector, most affected by this pandemic. The numbers speak for themselves: from January to August this year, the sleeping in the hotels in the country have reduced by 63% compared to the same period last year—see! It is worth noting that, in Fatima, the reduction was 74 %, Mr. Members — 74%! — in other words, 27 % more aggravation compared to the national average! Looking at the indicator of electronic payments in the catering, restoration and similar sector, it is verified that, in the municipality of Ourem, breaks in electronic payment in tourist accommodation suffered a break of 52 %. It can be seen that in August ( last available data) the municipality of Ourem had 907 unemployed registered at the Institute for Employment and Vocational Training, which amounts to a 48 % increase in unemployment compared to the same period last year, when in the country the number of unemployed increased only 36 %. In the municipality of Ourem, 65 applications have already been made for the treasury support line for tourism microenterprises COVID-19, representing 237 jobs. of these 65 applications, 58 are currently paying, amounting to €508 000. But the problem we live in is too complex for there to be magic solutions that solve all kinds of problems. We therefore draw attention to the fact that it is not worth the municipal chamber to bring us illegal proposals of a tax nature, because such an attitude only conflicts and undermines the way to solve a large part of Fatima's problems.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u15	Mr. Deputies, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u16	in this sense, strengthening this strategy, we strengthen with the government the study of the possibility of prolonging the layoff for a longer time in the Ourem / Fatima, promoting the opening of applications to Community funds specifically directed to religious tourism in this region, other and related areas, creating some lines of credit especially enhanced for these companies to mitigate some of the effects of this crisis.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u17	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u18	I'm done now, Mr. President. We urge the Government to look at and focus on Fatima as well in order to help religious tourism, which is a national strategic product by this government.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u19	Thank you very much, Mr. You really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u20	The council of Ourem and Fatima well deserves this, for all they have given to the national economy and Portuguese society. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u21	Mrs. Mariana Silva of the Greens has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u22	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today the PSD brings to the discussion the current economic and social situation in Fátima, Ourem County. The debate takes place only in Fatima, but we could be talking about many other frequencies or councils that have seen their economy and social problems get worse because of the pandemic we live in. However, we all know that today's problems in Fatima do not arise only from a reality we did not know about and with which we have to live, forcing us to review many areas of the local economy and even national. What we cannot also ignore is that the development options for tourism that have allowed the region strong financial inputs, especially in a tourism marked by seasonality, have intensified the problems. In addition to this, the choice of the large chains that have settled there has insisted on low wages and precariously that does not allow people to fix themselves and other economies to develop.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u23	You don't know! That doesn't exist!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u24	The fragesia of Fatima is inserted in the municipality of Ourem that had, before the pandemic, several needs that come from far. For example, there is no public road transport link between Ourem and Santarém, the district capital, which is not replaced by the transport between Santarém and Fatima, and more public transport is needed, particularly road transport, which connects the different parish and the headquarters of the municipality to the district capital. But these problems are not today.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u25	He's got the North Line, he's got A1!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u26	Another example, Mrs. Members, which involves access to mobility and access to health is that Ourem's patients are spread between Tomar hospital and Leiria hospital, being difficult to visit and accompany inpatient families, because necessary public transport is not available, and in time of pandemic even more complicated it becomes access to health care. They need more family doctors, because there are 4500 patients without a family doctor, but this difficulty already existed before, for example, at the beginning of this year. This reality and these difficulties, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, they didn't show up with the virus, they already existed. The gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, when you talk about unemployment, layoffs, what work are we talking about, or better what job are we talking about? Would not many of these workers go directly to unemployment at the end of this month, as it is unfortunately customary, when Fatima gets more empty with the arrival of winter and the reduction of tourists and visitors? This too, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, it's not new. They pray, and all their fregueses, need more support to develop agriculture, more investment in a diversified and fire-resistant forest, more, better and more diversified investment for the municipality, which can only be more able to withstand possible crises that occur and therefore must be prevented. In Fatima, many investments are small and medium-sized enterprises, shops and restaurants, which should be supported until it is possible to stabilize. Mrs. Members, we do not underestimate the consequences of the pandemic, which has brought new challenges and demands, which correspond to the problems that the whole country is experiencing. We do not ignore the consequences of the closure of trade and the cancellation of the Fatima of hundreds of thousands of tourists, but we have no doubt that the main problems were already latent and were only more visible from the use of the pandemic to fire, cut in wages and rights, further degradation of public services. But we also know that the wager in the monoculture of religious tourism greatly conditions the development of this city. There are other ways, there are other options. May the PSD and the CDS want to defend them, especially where they are in power.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u27	For the PAN Parliamentary Group, Mr Nélson Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u28	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by thanking the PSD for bringing this debate here, although it is not a new debate. The pandemic conditions are clear to all, clear in all sectors, particularly tourism, not only in Fatima but by that country outside. Obviously, SMEs (small and medium-sized enterprises) in Portugal are the largest job-creators, actively contribute to the wealth generation of our country and, as the NAP has always defended and will continue to defend, these companies need to be supported. It does not matter to the industrial sector where they are, provided they respect the rules, provided they have everything in their day, they must be clearly supported. I also wanted to say that, in addition to these support measures, 2020 has shown us unequivocally what Barcelona has already warned us. When we have a strong economy based on the service industry, which is highly volatile, and it's an industry that depends a lot on bubbles and factors that are completely out of our control, that's what happens. Does it produce wealth? Product! Is it highly volatile? It is! Can we control anything about the factors of dominance or predominance of this industry? Don't! in the same way that the PSD asked the other party forces to let the ideological and party factors side by side, the NAP asks the PSD to leave the ideology side by side a little while and think of the country as a whole, think of the social responses that are necessary as a whole. This is what you want from the opposition party that has the most expression here in Parliament. Of course, the NAP is highly supportive of these support measures, as well as creation and employment measures, but not exclusively, not heavily, in a volatile industry. We need to create sustainable jobs, we need to have an indoor restorative industry. The interior has been forgotten by Parliament for decades; we have a deserted interior, we have the vast majority of the Portuguese population living on the coast, in urban areas, and that is what we should also be talking about. Regardless of this, again I thank the PSD for bringing this urgent debate, but I would like to see the PSD with the same grip and lightning when the economic problems of SMEs are discussed here throughout the country, of the various industries and of people who are in a very, very precarious situation.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u29	For the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Fabíola Cardoso has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u30	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Today we discuss the economic and social situation currently experienced in Fatima, Ourem district, Santarém district. We realize that the situation is very serious in Portugal when the Sanctuary of Fatima advanced, in September, with the intention of dispensing dozens of workers.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u31	That's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u32	Fake news!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u33	The fall in the revenues caused by the pandemic led to an internal restructuring plan. But it was not only the Church suffering from the consequences of decreasing the influx of pilgrims to the Sanctuary, which reached 95%. The President of the House of Ourem revealed to the regional portal More Ribatejo that the impact of closing establishments in Fatima was around 90 % in April. The special vulnerability of Fatima is linked to a socio-economic model based almost exclusively on tourism activity. The strong specialization in the mono-industry of religious tourism led to a very unresponsive business ecosystem to unexpected changes and therefore very fragile. These weaknesses also make one feel on the side of work, marked by strong informality, seasonality and precariousness.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u34	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u35	According to statements by António Baião, head of the Union of Workers of the Industry of Hotels, Tourism, Restaurants and Similarities of the Centre, about 1000 people lost their jobs in Fatima, corresponding to about 50% of the jobs, only in the hotel sector. in other sectors, due to clandestineness and undeclared work, the numbers may be even worse. The pandemic has exposed the weaknesses of the local economic fabric, which is only similar to the situation in the Algarve or Madeira, which justifies, from our point of view, exceptional measures to deal with this serious socio-economic problem in the Santarém district. [[Congratulations from PSD Member Duarte Marques.]] It is necessary to channel extraordinary support for people and companies who can cope with the social emergency, but structural measures are also necessary to transform the economic fabric of the region and prepare it for a post-COVID future, which will not be the same as the past. We read carefully the draft resolution that some PSD Members presented in this House on 13 May, but we did not find in this proposal the tools needed to solve this problem. Training, vocational conversion, technological training? Nothing! Do you fight precariousness and seasonality at work? Nothing! Diversification of economic activity? Nothing! Technological innovation and digitization? Nothing! Promotion of natural and landscape resources? Nothing! Improving public transport and health care at the service of populations? Nothing! A situation of this gravity does not go there with quick thoughts, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u36	What are the Block's proposals?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u37	Structural measures are needed so that the social, economic and tourist situation in Fatima does not remain unchanged beyond the current urgency and can evolve to a greater diversity of responses to the changes that the pandemic brings us. This is the only way Fatima can improve. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u38	For the CFP's Parliamentary Group, Mr António Filipe has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u39	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The debate that the PSD here brings about the situation of Fatima, which is a very serious situation and which we have in no way minimized, allows us, in fact, to deal with some of the problems that the country is facing today and which have a particular incidence in Fatima for the reasons that have already been explained here. He called for no prejudice of a religious nature in this debate. I want to assure you that there is no and that religious tourism is worthy of all our respect,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u40	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u41	...not only for obvious and objective economic reasons that have to do with the fact that the country is visited by citizens of various parts of the world. Therefore, this is a concern that we all, of course, share.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u42	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u43	There are, however, two aspects which have already been mentioned and which must be emphasized: firstly, the pre-existence of the pandemic of problems that have to do with a scarce diversification of economic activities, therefore a bet focused almost exclusively on religious tourism, being the tourism sector, not only in Fatima but throughout the country, very based on the precariousness of labour links and low wages. In fact, it is significant that in recent years when we all spoke on the big boom of the tourism industry, this has not been reflected in improving the living conditions of many thousands of workers in the tourism sector and, in a crisis situation such as that in which we live, this makes the situation much worse because these workers were already, in fact, the main victims of this situation. Then it is also evidence that the problem of the tourism sector, in the face of the epidemic we are going through, is particularly serious and not only in Fatima. There have already been reports of situations like the Algarve, which are very tourism-dependent, particularly coming from the United Kingdom, knowing that there was a time when things were better, but they worsened again. Therefore, Algarve and Madeira have suffered a lot from this pandemic, but in the region of the Santarém district there are situations, such as that of Tomar, whose economy also has a cultural tourism component, in this case—very significant. Now, Fatima's situation is indeed very worrying about its size and the fact that much depends on travel that cannot be made. We do not in any way minimize the unmistakable consequences that this pandemic situation, with its limitations, has on the economy of that region. We are not only talking about religious events, which have a great seasonality, every year, but also about other events, including weddings, with many people, who also focus very much on that region and have ceased to be able to take place. The question is this: what solutions are there in this framework? In other words, what should and can be done to minimize the situation in which we are? The PSD still has another intervention to do and may come up with something, because so far nothing. The honourable Member has just made a diagnosis, with which we will all agree, more or less, but it is important that there are solutions to this. It is also important for the Government to have an opportunity to speak, if you know how support works, especially for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, who are suffering, as we all know and imagine, with the situation that the country is going through. There, it is with great concern that we look at this because, when we contact micro and small entrepreneurs in this country outside, we hear reports of the great difficulties in accessing support, even those that are planned. In other words, in addition to the lack of support for these more fragile sectors of the national economy, which are the overwhelming majority of our economic fabric, what we are told is that they have not been able to obtain support. They addressed the banks, but the criteria that are being adopted for the granting of support are restrictive and therefore there is always some requirement that these entrepreneurs should be able to obtain support which is essential for many of them to continue to pursue their economic activity, which, already in a normal situation, is extremely precarious. What is important to mention are things such as difficulties, for example, which are being put to the application of the suspension of the payment on account, which was approved in the Supplementary Budget by 2020.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u44	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u45	I'll be done right away, Mr. President. Since, unfortunately, this situation is about to last, it is important to know what support is needed for these companies to survive, go through this crisis and continue their activity. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u46	You have the floor for an intervention by the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, Mr João Gonçalves Pereira.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u47	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members: The pandemic affected the world economy and the sector most exposed to the same pandemic was the economic activity of tourism. People stopped traveling, stopped needing accommodations, stopped attending restaurants, stopped renting cars, stopped going to events, stopped going to conventions, and, as it is evident, this has an impact on the national economy, but also on the local economy. We are debating Fatima, Ourem, but at the level of the local economy we cannot forget other regions of the country that are also being very affected precisely by this pandemic situation. This is the case of the Algarve,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u48	It's from Lisbon!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u49	... the case of Lisbon, the case of autonomous regions and, of course, the case of Fatima, which we are discussing. We are talking about a sector that over the past four years has grown something like 60 %, worth about 15 % of gross domestic product, weighing almost 7% in the national economy and representing more than 300 000 jobs. Therefore, as it is evident, it is a sector with enormous importance for the country, but it is virtually stopped. Mr President of the Confederation of Tourism of Portugal said that there was a reduction of about 70 % in revenue, but what is true is that in the case of Ourém, Fatima, this breakdown is more than 90 %, i.e., is a more serious situation than that in the whole country. We are talking about a council that is on the list of the most unemployed and with increased unemployment in Portugal, precisely because of its dependence on a cluster, religious tourism, for which there are no prejudices, at least on the side of this bench. In the front bench, excluding the PCP, because by the responsible intervention it did, it was noticed that there is no such prejudice from the Left Block clearly perceives this ideological prejudice. In the case of Ourem, there is not only one problem at the level of tourism and it is to take advantage of the moment the government is here to say that there is also a health problem, because there are no doctors. There are about 4500 users who don't even have a family doctor. Therefore, in that council and in neighbouring councils, the problems are not solely related to the issue of tourism. We congratulate the PSD for having brought this debate and for having made this schedule precisely because we can give voice to the despair of many entrepreneurs and the situation in which unfortunately many unemployed live. The situation of unemployment is very worrying and, in relation to the tourism sector, the CDS has today made a request to, precisely, the Secretary of State for Tourism to come to Parliament...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u50	Here it is!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u51	Here you are, but you have to come to the Committee on Economic Affairs to explain more. The 6 minutes available are not enough, Madam Secretary of State. And you know why? We have closed hotels, insolvent companies and unemployment growing, growing and growing in this sector. Therefore, concrete answers are required and that is exactly why the Secretary of State, at the request of the CDS, for the request we have entered, must come to Parliament to give these explanations which are required by the sector, but also by the Portuguese. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u52	For an intervention, Mrs Isura Morais, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u53	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Member of the Government, Ms. Secretary of State for Tourism: We received an alert last May to the situation in Fatima, requesting exceptional measures to support tourism to mitigate the consequences of the reality in that sector. None of us had any idea, then, that the situation would get worse and that this pandemic would cause such large-scale damage and time extension in this strategic sector of the national economy, tourism. Damages affecting Fatima in a particular way, a unique case linked to religious tourism, the largest Marian shrine in the world, which receives hundreds of thousands of visitors annually and which, as a result, has been born around it various hotel and catering equipment prepared to satisfy this demand. Important investments for the region, which generate a lot of jobs, which is essential to support under the penalty of being faced with a serious problem, not only at the level of the business fabric of the sector, but at the social level, by the significant breakdown that generates in the income of families and the threat of unemployment. Today, with 90 % breaks in demand, especially at the international level, knowing that most tourists travel in groups and are in the age group of 65, we are also facing a serious problem for national tourism, because those who travel to make this visit of religious charismatic not only visit Fatima, visit the region and are also customers of a whole set of tourist points, namely Lisbon, the main gateway to our country. While some in this Chamber are unaware of the problem, this example may be seen: the religious ceremonies of the past 12 and 13 October had the maximum forecast of 6000 visitors when, in recent years, the number of faithful was between 150,000 and 250 000. This problem has been transmitted in the first person to the PSD Members and it is a situation that we cannot ignore and which, further, is dramatic, with a negative impact caused by the pandemic that puts this whole region in a very vulnerable position in the economic and social fields. We therefore argue that there should be urgent responses, with short-term measures, to immediately mitigate the problems of family income and corporate treasury, and long-term measures, to promote the relaunch of that region, anchored in the Community funds available. So, Madam Secretary of State, I conclude by asking you two very specific questions. Is the Government sensitive to the situation in this territory? And what measures are being taken to safeguard tourism and tourism operators in Fatima? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u54	For an intervention, you have the floor of the Secretary of State for Tourism.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u55	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen: I want to start by recognizing the importance of the subject and, of course, thanking you for having been discussed in this plenary. The situation of Fatima is difficult, it has long been identified. Right at the beginning of the pandemic, in March, I had the opportunity to contact the sector's entrepreneurs very closely, with all the economic operators and, of course, with the workers. Since then an extraordinary effort has been made on the part of all — I repeat, of all — on the public and private sides, to mitigate the effects of this pandemic. The diagnosis is done, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, it's not positive. As has already been mentioned, unemployment has increased. In August 2020, we had an increase in the unemployment rate in the order of 48 %. The employment rate of hotel units is, in fact, worrying. While the national average at this time is 22, 75 %, Ourem stands out for the negative, with a occupancy rate of 7, 87 % and, if we analyze the recovery rates, we find that the diagnosis remains. At national level, compared to the previous homologous period, as regards sleeping, we have a recovery of 53 %, and this average in the Centre region is certainly higher: 72 %. Again, the case of Ourem stands out by negative, with a recovery rate compared to the homologous period of only 39 %. So, as I said, the diagnosis is made. However, more than making diagnoses, we have to react and that is what we have done since the first time. In March important measures were announced, as is the knowledge of all, which they just wanted to mitigate the effects of a pandemic, which, at the time, was thought to be shorter. A number of specific measures have been launched for the tourism sector and, given that the importance of micro and small enterprises has been ventilated several times here, I stress the specific support line set up for micro tourism companies — the only sector that has access to such a line — managed by tourism in Portugal and which has so far supported around EUR 143 million. It is a quick line of access, in which the decision has been reached in five days, and which has greatly helped to preserve jobs. Because the analysis of the government has been careful, careful and continuous, this line has been, however, benefited and there is a prize that can be turned into a fund lost, just in order to ensure that the support reaches the companies and solves the needs of these same entrepreneurs, as well as, of course, the needs of the workers and families who depend on it. But we did not stay here, we had extraordinary measures, which are related to credit lines with public guarantee, we had the deviations in the benefits of all the projects framed in PT2020 and QREN (National Strategic Reference Framework). a total of EUR 1, EUR 4 billion were ventilated for the tourism sector, Mr. It is indeed a relevant value. [[Protests from PSD MP João Moura.]] If I wonder if it's enough, I'll probably tell you that I don't, we have to do whatever it takes, whatever it is necessary to preserve jobs. I would, of course, also like to note an issue which seems extremely important to me. One of the main claims of the sector, which I have, as I said, accompanied from the beginning, specifically in the region of Fatima, is related to the simplified layoff. However, as we know in recent days, in particular in the last week, an improved framework of the recovery support programme has been approved, which is precisely one of the specificities of the tourism sector, in particular of the Fatima region. Companies with a turnover of more than 75 % are eligible and can access the new recovery support programme which ensures a reduction in the normal working hours of the worker up to 100 % in October, November and December, and this measure is of course accompanied by an increase in the remuneration of the worker, which will amount to 88 %, three times the maximum wage value. There's a bridge here that also seems important to me. This proposal, which, as we know, has already been adopted in the Council of Ministers, in addition to allowing the normal working time to be reduced to 100 %, just to deal with these downturns of more than 75 %, exempts the employer from additional charges, in particular those relating to social security. And the reason for this measure is that, in fact, of the various meetings that have been held — and I assume that we have all promoted various meetings with all economic operators and workers — this was the measures most claimed by the sector, in particular by the sector represented in this specific region.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u56	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u57	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u58	I would also like to note the following: tourism is a sector of peace, which finds its strongest corporation in spiritual tourism. So, Mr. Deputy, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, we will certainly be together demanding more support for this sector, insofar as, as I said, all our efforts so far, although it has been a lot, it will certainly not be enough. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u59	I do not know whether any parliamentary group will still want to intervene before the final intervention of the PSD Parliamentary Group. [[Pause.]] With no further inscriptions, we will then turn to the intervention of Mr Duarte Marques of the PSD. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u60	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : This debate has already achieved what was the main objective of the PSD, that everyone realizes that there is a specificity in Fatima. The problem of lack of tourism at the moment in Portugal especially affects a tourist pole that depends heavily on foreign tourism, especially one that began its confinement much earlier than Europe, the Asian countries. Fatima is damaged because Italy's tourism is also very important and it was the first of the European countries to stay at home, following Spain. So it's appropriate to say that Fatima caught everywhere. The problem is not only today, it is from here to the front, because the Secretary of State also agreed with us that Fatima is a lever of national tourism, because people go to Alcobaça because they come to Fatima, they go to Coimbra because they came to Fatima, they will take it because they come to Fatima, there are many people who come to Lisbon because they came to Fatima and also there are many people who go to the Algarve because it was Fatima. And that is a question we have to put on the table, because it was also Portuguese tourism that financed a lot of the country's economic recovery, allowing many people to help with their taxes for that country outside. Many people say that there is a need for an airport in the center of the country, because of Fatima; many people say that it is necessary to drop the airport in Lisbon, because of Fatima; and, after all, there is now a black hole in Fatima? There is a black hole in Fatima for the next few years, because the economy will not resume, nor tourism, as in the past. The beaches have already opened, but religious tourism has not yet returned to what it was, nor will it come back in the next few days. That is why we are here and we realize that most parties have agreed to this specificity. It was a great victory because, perhaps for the first time in the Portuguese Parliament, this matter was discussed without religious stigmas, because the question is not the sanctuary but people, in fact. But now we have to be consistent, in this adult age, and realize that there is a problem. And it is not enough for the Secretary of State to let me tell you, to show us the measures for the sector and for the country that have already been taken. The Secretary of State acknowledged, and well, the specificity of the matter and, as Mr. João Moura said, which is from the council of Ourem, now has to act accordingly, because that problem will affect everyone, not only the people of Fatima.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u61	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u62	There are many people with special needs, many students with special needs, many elderly with special needs, who are sent from all over the country to the social institutions of Fatima and it was this money that often arrived at the institutions, which came from restaurants, hotels, the shrine itself, and which is not coming now. Sometimes it is even those who anticipate social security to help those who need it most and it is now that the country, which has so often been helped by Fatima, cannot fail this pole of tourist attraction, social support and investment. Fatima has already helped the country and the region. It's time to help Fatima. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u63	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of our first item on today's agenda. We will start the second point with the general debate of Bill No. 512 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — Measures to recover the activity of medical boards of disability assessment, of the Resolution Project No 321 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government comply with the Ombudsman's recommendations to eliminate significant delays in issuing medical certificates of multi-use disability and Bill 538 / XIV / 2. a (NAP) — Ensures the effective response of medical boards' activity of assessment of disabilities and primary health care in epidemiological situations caused by COVID-19 and 541 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Transitional arrangements for issuing multi-purpose medical certificates of incapacity. To open the debate, Mr Moisés Ferreira, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u64	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Left Block has asked to schedule this debate on medical boards, on measures to recover the activity of medical boards because this is an essential matter for the lives of many people. The suspension, postponement, delay and impossibility of access to medical boards have dramatic, concrete impacts on the lives of those who need it most at this time. This is exactly where we want to start this debate, for this concrete impact, for reality, because of what many people are going through. Sara — a fictitious name — is the mother of two daughters. He worked on green receipts, always worked on green receipts. She was diagnosed with cancer, lost her income because she can't work right now. It needs support, it needs access to support, which, in fact, are provided for in the law, but it cannot. Why? Because you can't access a medical board. Cláudia — also a fictitious name — required a medical board at the end of 2019, pre-pandamia. With the suspension of the activity, which occurred in March 2020, it has not yet been able to access this medical board and, as it does not, it cannot access the rights that are established in the law and that at this time would make all the difference, such as transforming the credit into a bonus credit, having exemption from the single circulation tax ( IUC ) or having a reduction in the IRS, some support that will help many people who have lost income because of the disease. Filomena Borges, of the Portuguese Association of Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis, recently wrote: « In a pathology with the specificities of lateral amiotrophic sclerosis, which is, from the outset, a neurodegenerative disease of a progressive and rapid nature, with a survival that oscillates, on average, between the two and five years, it does not seem reasonable that these patients have to wait months for them to be given a multi-use attestation». And it's right, it's not at least reasonable, neither in the cases of patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, nor in the cases of the many thousands of patients who since March have been unable to access medical joints. They are rights provided for in the law but are being ignored—and that is why the Left Block brings this bill to debate—because, in March, medical boards were suspended and public health units obviously needed to concentrate efforts on the COVID-19 pandemic, and since then it has been an authentic calvary to access a medical board and multi-use attestation. Most people can't even access this certificate. At a certain point, the Government has decided that a board of health centres should be kept in operation, but, as the Ombudsman says, this measure alone would be insufficient and would add that in many cases it has never been applied. The result of this is the impossibility of access to medical boards, the impossibility of access to rights and support necessary for people with disabilities, people with disabilities and who are abandoned. Since the beginning of the pandemic, the government has not cautioned the recovery of the activity of medical boards and the current situation is unsustainable, it cannot be extended for more months in this way. The recovery of hospital consultations activity does not provide for the recovery of medical joints, the Autumn-Winter Plan says nothing about medical joints and this is not acceptable. Therefore, in order to resolve this situation, the Left Block proposes in its draft law simple but effective measures, measures that can be applied immediately, it is sufficient that there is political will to change the law. For example, automatic access to multi-use attestation by users with incapacitating pathologies which usually confer a degree of incapacity equal to or greater than 60 %, in fact, something which is publicly defended by the Ombudsman. Second measure, a plan to recover the activity of medical boards, with a financial package for regional health administrations and extra contractualization with health centers groups. In fact, this is nothing new, this recovery should already be on the ground, but, by the way, there must be a law like that which we propose for this recovery to be effective. Third measure, the change in the composition of medical boards, which are now composed of specialists with competence in the assessment of damage and medical boards and not exclusively by doctors specialists in public health, who are, of course, overwhelmed with the fight against COVID-19. These are simple but will make all the difference in the lives of people who need it most and it is a law that is obviously necessary because no more months can be expected. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u65	Mrs Ana Rita Bessa of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u66	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The medical attestation of multi-purpose disability, and to start history organised from the outset, is the document which shows the degree of disability equal to or greater than 60% and which serves as a basis for most of the rights and benefits of persons with disabilities or incapacitating disease, enshrined in the legislation and of which the Left Block has also brought here some examples. This certificate is requested from the health centre of the area of residence, accompanied by the medical reports and other necessary diagnostic elements, and will then be issued by the medical board, by evaluating the degree of disability. Where citizens with disabilities or disabilities equal to or greater than 60 % do not have this attestation issued within the right time and necessary, they shall end up seeing themselves deprived of these rights and benefits which the law confers upon them and which have all the legitimacy to exercise. They have arrived at the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, as I imagine that to all parliamentary groups, cases, requests, alerts, several reports on delays in obtaining medical boards. I would also like to give two examples here in the oncological area, where these warnings are particularly insistent: the lady, who sent us an e-mail saying it is inhumane that patients, particularly oncological, who do not have time, are not having access to medical boards, waiting for months. The medical reports say everything, the disease is incurable, there are patients who leave without economic resources and in situations of prolonged unemployment. She has been waiting for access to this certificate since 4 March 2020 — the date of her diagnosis — and so far she has no support. Another woman also tells us that her husband, who is 39 years old, was diagnosed with colon cancer and that the same is spread. He asked for the certificate on November 2, 2019 and, on the date of delivery, they informed him that there was an eight-month waiting list. Until today, after that, nothing has been communicated to you. Especially in the case of cancer patients, who are patients who, in many circumstances, do not have a cure perspective or have much time, this delay may indeed be determining. In the meantime, what do we know? We know that on the 14th day, even after the marking and scheduling of this debate by the Left Block, with the great sense of opportunity that characterizes the PS Government in the field of advertisements, a note was issued, sent to the social communication, saying that the Government was in the process of solving all the problems related to these delays. We are very happy, indeed we agree with much of the measures, the question is that 'in the way of' does not mean that problems are solved. In any case, I will save myself from listing these measures, until we empty out the intervention of the Member of the Socialist Party, who would surely be left with nothing to say. In fact, the CDS maintains its project, because, in addition to what the government says it is or is coming to do, there are things that are not yet happening. And, in particular, we propose: in the case of cancer patients, the automatic issuance of the attestation by the hospital service responsible for the diagnosis of cancer, eliminating the need for a medical unit, which only validates this diagnosis; the strengthening of information with the population about what is exactly this attested, to whom it is intended, so that cases may serve, so that everyone can fall within the legal criteria and also, probably, to minimize the number of unfounded requirements, which end up overloading the services; and, very important, the adequacy of the disability table in use, which aims at the consequences of accidents at work or occupational disease, what are the broader scopes of the certificate, even because it is important to distinguish the incapacity of functionality, which is an idea that the CDS has been defending for a long time. Having said that, and in conclusion, we will be following up, in the field of expertise, in the case of bills which will, without a vote, come down to their committee in order to improve, because what is really important is to resolve and speed up the situation of these people. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u67	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, to the appropriate effect, I inform the House that we already have voting quorum and that, as has happened in the last plenary session, the possibility of registration will remain open until the end of the session, even until the end of the vote. For an intervention, Mrs Bebiana Cunha has the floor of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u68	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: If prior to this health context there were already weaknesses in the National Health Service ( SNS ), the truth is that the COVID-19 has in fact come to aggravate what is the reality of the users, the reality of the professionals, who are often under conditions of great instability and uncertainty to respond to the demands of the daily. We know that health professionals in primary health care units have not been able to measure the tasks and responsibilities that are affecting them, often feeling exhausted and frustrated with the current demands and limitations. In addition, with an average of 800 daily telephone contacts, plus care activities, which increases the number of daily hours of work, they are even aware that this effort is not meeting the needs of community follow-up. After the suspension of medical boards, in order to safeguard already assessed situations, and for the purposes of social, economic and fiscal guarantees, the validity of multi-purpose medical certificates for persons who had already been assessed has been extended until the end of this year. However, considering precisely the suspension of medical boards, the mobilization of public health doctors for the strengthening of the SNS and also the recognized delays in issuing the multi-use medical certificate ( AMIM ) — which we well know, Mrs and Mrs. Members, it may reach one year — there are people with disabilities over 60 % who are without access to this certificate and therefore without access to the equipment they need, without access to social support or even without access to higher education under the special scheme. In the currently published portals, there are still no solutions that guarantee the recovery of the necessary activity of medical boards and the speedy response to the issue of new certificates, thus leaving out people in a situation of incapacitating disease. The legislation does not provide for the recovery of activity in primary health care, which is increasingly responsible for monitoring and daily monitoring of cases in isolation. The current Autumn-Winter Health Plan leads towards the resumption of normal primary health care activity, thus favoring the realization of non-presenceal contacts, consultations spaced to avoid the accumulation of users and the maintenance of contact with COVID-19 users, which adds an average of two hours of daily work for these professionals. So, what we are bringing here today to the evaluation and discussion of this House is a set of proposals that really aim to provide solutions to these problems. In this regard, what the NAP proposes is the following: an exceptional reorganization of medical boards for the evaluation of disability, thus passing on to a resident physician who obviously connects with the family doctor; a standardized list of clinical situations with a degree of disability equal to or greater than 60 %, which will allow for automate and facilitate these processes; ensuring that, also by medical boards, it is possible to use digital means and do so - at a distance; a specific telephone line of screening, for example, through the use of SNS 24, in a perspective these professionals are not overburdened with a task, when there are already people specialized in this type of care; introducing a mental health specialist to medical boards; and ensuring that, during the year 2021, the Government will remove the real needs of medical boards for the evaluation of disability and primary health care units.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u69	You now have the floor to Mrs Diana Ferreira to present the PCP bill and participate in the debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u70	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There are several situations that have arrived at the CFP Parliamentary Group, and certainly to all parliamentary groups in the Assembly of the Republic, of successive delays in meeting deadlines for issuing the multi-purpose medical certificate of incapacity. It is a situation that is not new, that is recurrent and that has worsened significantly with the context of the outbreak and also with the suspension of medical boards. It is of course necessary to solve the fundamental problem which results continuously in delays in the marking of medical boards and in the issue of their attestations, but it is important at the moment to ensure an immediate solution that responds to the many situations that are pending. It is that the absence of the multi-use certificate means the impossibility of accessing a set of rights, such as social benefits, such as social benefits for inclusion, the acquisition of own car or the exemption of IUC, the parking card for persons with reduced mobility, support products, the exemption of moderate rates, among other benefits and the rights of persons with disabilities or disabilities more than 60 %. The CFP Parliamentary Group had already questioned the Government at various times, having not obtained answers that would effectively clarify the situation or point out solutions to ensure that there would be no loss of rights of persons with disabilities or with a disability of more than 60 %, and that there are situations and questions presented by the CFP that did not even respond by the Government. We know that the context of the COVID-19 came to place increased demands on all health professionals. However, such a circumstance cannot mean that the right to social benefits and other benefits are irreparably attained, whose realization depends on the issue of the multi-use certificate. We also know that Article 5. the Decree-Law No. 10 -A / 2020 has provided for a model to ensure the functioning of at least one medical board in each group of health centres or local health unit, but this response is manifestly insufficient, either in the face of needs, or because often this information is not known, or because, often, these same medical joints have not been created. These people, these citizens, in addition to facing a serious and incapacitating situation, have limitations and impediments in access to a set of rights which cannot, under any circumstances, be denied them. The current emergency response, in the field of public health, which has to continue to be guaranteed by the time necessary, cannot question this important social response, being indispensable, urgent and inadmissible to find solutions for these cases. It is in this sense that the CFP presents this initiative, proposing a transitional regime for issuing the medical certificate of multi-use disability and obtaining the corresponding social, economic and fiscal benefits provided for by law. We therefore propose that the issue of the multi-purpose medical certificate of disability may be made by a specialist doctor who has at least the category of assistant under the SNS, to whom the degree of disability should be attributed. We also propose that a special and speedy procedure be instituted for issuing the multi-purpose medical certificate of disability for newly diagnosed cancer patients, the responsibility of the hospital where the diagnosis was made, and that the cancer patients whose diagnosis has been made longer benefit, likewise, from the degree of disability of 60 % until the re-evaluation is carried out, thus ensuring that cancer patients are entitled to all the social, economic and fiscal benefits provided for in the law, without the need for travel to the medical board. We also propose that, for the injured workers, the fixing of their degree of disability resulting from the occupational accident process should be sufficient for the granting of the benefits provided for by law. With this solution, the PCP responds to numerous problems, such as those that have come to us, ensuring that everyone has access to the multi-purpose attestation and all rights associated with it.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u71	For an intervention, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the IL, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u72	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This problem of delays in medical boards of disability assessment is another clear example of the inaction of this PS government. I also have an e-mail that I want to quote here, from among the ones I have received, just like the others. Members received, as a result of a certain outrage, a citizen says: « In my area of residence, medical boards were already having considerable delays before the pandemic and the suspension of the implementation of these medical joints, the last being carried out with regard to June 2019 processes ». We share the outrage of this citizen. The pandemic greatly aggravated the delays of the medical boards, but this problem had already come from behind. This was the year in which the record of complaints in the Provedoria on this subject was struck, but the record had already been established in the previous year. And in the previous year, there was no confinement, nor COVID-19, nor anything other than the pink world that the Socialist Party wants to paint and that clearly does not correspond to the day-to-day Portuguese. For the Liberal Initiative, all proposals relating to this matter deserve to be discussed in the specialty, so that experts, health professionals and citizens most affected by these delays can be heard. The practice has shown that these processes must be expedited as quickly as possible and we already know that the agility must start from the Assembly of the Republic, because the government does not like to be pushed, but if nothing is pushed, nothing will do and nothing will do.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u73	You have the floor for an intervention by the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Pedro Alves.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u74	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We are discussing four initiatives today, all recognizing the serious difficulties and delays in obtaining medical certificates of multi-use disabilities from people with serious and incapacitating diseases that they need. By communicating this concern, the PSD Parliamentary Group also presented an initiative, draft resolution No 699 / XIV / 2. a, which will be discussed next week in committee. in this draft resolution, the Social Democratic Party recommends to the Government the simplification of the legal regime for issuing multi-use medical certificates, as well as the adoption of urgent measures to speed up the issuance and revalidation of these certificates. We all know too well the situation that exists, for which public denunciation — it is right to remember — the Ombudsman has made important contributions, especially since the beginning of this year. However, medical boards were suspended between March and June to release public health doctors in order to respond to COVID-19, which had, among other negative consequences, to leave patients to have access to these joints, where multi-use attestations are issued. This situation has worsened so that, in September last year, some 45,000 people were estimated to be waiting for medical joints to be carried out for the verification of disabilities. The Ombudsman has denounced situations of waiting for one year and even two years for the attestation. Thousands of Portuguese people despair of obtaining a multi-use disability certificate, the only way to obtain social support and benefits, often decisive for their daily lives. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a reality worthy of a third world, a mere shameful situation. The decision to create medical joints in health centres and local health units can walk in the right direction, but it is of little value if it is not accompanied by a strong reinforcement of public health doctors. The Government's response is still far from the needs of the patients, and the truth is that, by maintaining this situation, many thousands of people will remain unattended this year, which is particularly serious in the case of cancer patients who cannot obtain this disability proof. It is therefore necessary for the Government to rapidly change the legal regime for issuing multi-use certificates in order to simplify and deburrocate the respective issue process. It is also important, while this amendment does not happen, that the Executive adopts emergency, extraordinary and transitional measures on the extension of the validity of the certificates in the process of renewal and oncological patients now diagnosed, in the face of the added difficulties brought by the pandemic. Furthermore, it is shameful not only that the government does not comply with, but also that it departs so far from compliance with the 60-day legal deadline for medical boards. We therefore defend that the government must be alerted to the need to comply with the law. In the case of cancer patients, when the State cannot ensure that the medical board is carried out within 60 days of the submission of the application, we believe that the Government must attribute to them an extraordinary degree of incapacity of 60 %, with a maximum limit of five years after the initial diagnosis or until the medical board is completed. Finally, the PSD recommends that the Government create mechanisms to allow the extension of the validity of multi-purpose certificates in the process of renewal, while the pandemic crisis consumes means that constitute obstacles to the renewal of these certificates. We believe that these measures can contribute to reducing the serious violation of patients' rights in access to certificates of multi-use disability they need. But above all, we demand that the government comply with the law and reduce the waiting times for these certificates to be obtained within 60 days. With regard to the initiatives presented, while recognizing the relevance and concern of all of them, it seems to us to be more advised not to follow in full those of the Left Block, the PCP and the PAN, either by its form or by its content. This is a matter of the responsibility of the Government, to which we believe it will be possible to adopt measures to simplify and mitigate the process of issuing and revalidating multi-use certificates, also taking account of the exceptional situation we live. Some of the proposals presented contain risks that, in the wake of simplification, can create a distortion of the process, automating procedures and devaluing the role of medical boards. in this sense, we follow the CDS in the recommendations made to the Government, which also make a call to the Government to comply with the recommendations of the Ombudsman, which we also subscribe to. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u75	Mr Susana Amador has the floor for an intervention by the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u76	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Health is a sector where the workforce is intensive, where you work seven days a week, 24 hours a day. Therefore, it is essential to invest in a human resources policy in health that mirrors the daily construction of a safe and agile organization, which gives space to the social dialogue and motivation of its professionals, and to place the patient and the right to the protection of their health as centrals, as provided by the Health Bases Act. In fact, this has been our way: a path to defending the right to health protection, as a social and constitutionally enshrined right; a path to strengthening the National Health Service, as a guarantee of universality and equality in access to all citizens, marked by an expressive increase of 17, 2 % of its human resources, from the end of 2015 to the present; a path of continued investment in the hardware and software of the system, which has experienced a significant reinforcement of EUR 941 million with the State Budget for 2020 and which, with the Supplementary Budget, has accumulated more than EUR 504 million, i.e. an increase of 4, 5 % compared to the current State budget. In 2021, we will continue this growth path of the SNS allocation, which will reach EUR 10, EUR 3 billion, while at the same time neglecting the sustained reduction of its debt. This is a right path. The numbers, the facts and the investment, Mr. Members, they speak for themselves and health professionals know that. Above all, they know that Portuguese have them in one of the most adverse moments of their collective life and of ours, in a struggle against a virus that invades all geography and generates serious disruptions in the health systems of all countries, even in the most developed and advanced, where our SNS registers. The initiatives under discussion focus on a complex and sensitive area, which relates to the recovery of the activity of medical boards for the evaluation of disabilities. As we know, the health emergency has strongly determined and influenced the entire care activity of the SNS and, in the first phase, it was necessary to redirect and focus resources in the construction of responses to epidemiological challenges, which has been impacted on all activity lines, including medical boards of disability assessment, leading to their suspension. But at a later stage, the effect of this suspension was soon reduced by ensuring the operation of at least one medical board in each group of health centres or local health unit. Furthermore, in order to promote the recovery of joints, the Government approved the extension of the validity of medical certificates of multi-purpose disability already issued until 31 December 2020, as well as the recruitment of retired or reformed medical specialists. It should be pointed out that on 14 July an exceptional scheme of incentives for the recovery of care activities was approved in accordance with the Economic and Social Stabilization Programme. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this matter has deserved the careful follow-up of this parliamentary group, in order to ensure the prompt response that is required of these joints, given the impact that they have on the users who resort to them, for the purposes of obtaining the certificate that allows them access to benefits and social benefits that are vital and to which, legally, they are entitled. The work of these joints is gradually being resumed, aiming at the recovery of the delay, which we know to be always heavy, so the government is working on four levels: at the level of simplification and dematerialization of procedures, in particular of cancer patients, reducing the number of demands and increasing speed; at the level of improved monitoring of joint agendas; at the level of the introduction of automated procedures in the issue of attestees; at the level of increased articulation between health institutions and the renewal of the attested ones already issued. Although we can follow the initiatives regarding their scope and merit, there are proposals that need to be cleared and improved in the field of expertise, in order to obtain a regulatory framework that combines the necessary elements, aiming at the establishment of a transitional regime for the recovery of expectations, which contains feasible solutions that do not distort the collegiality of the model, which guarantee equity in the evaluation, uniform and monitoring of the issue of certificates and which ensure, precisely, the quantification of the degree of disability, because there are positive benefits or differences that depend on the degree assigned and others who lack particular assessments. We're sure we'll find you, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the necessary convergence that this matter requires, because of its urgency. We will also have all the availability for the renewal or extension of multi-purpose attestations for an even longer period, because the impacts of delays affect many patients, whose vulnerability and fragility requires all our energy and mobilization, or should not be political and democracy as a daily effort of composition. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u77	The next item is the statement by the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Diana Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u78	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I think that in some way there is a common concern about solving the problem of a wide range of people with disabilities and disabilities. Mrs Susana Amador, allow me to make two comments, starting with the following: automatic renewal does not solve all the problems that exist. It solves one part, but there is another significant part of people who are in this situation today, or who have acquired disability or disability right now. There are even people who, having experienced this situation in 2019, have not been marked together medically to make their assessment in a timely manner, in which the degree of disability could be determined. That is why it is a wide range of people we are talking about, to whom fundamental rights are denied at this time. This situation needs to be resolved urgently. It is this situation that cannot continue to be postponed, because every day that the resolution of this problem is postponed is another day when these people suffer. This is indeed a reality with which we cannot, at all, compact and cannot accept. We are available to find solutions, Mrs Deputies, but they must be urgently found, so that this situation will be resolved once and for all. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u79	To close the debate, Mr Moisés Ferreira, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u80	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Many specific cases have been brought to this debate, including the situation of cancer patients who are effectively unable to access medical boards; the situation of disabled people who are unable to access support provided by law because they cannot access multi-use attestation; the situation of users diagnosed with highly incapacitating diseases, which are months and months waiting for medical joints. The various parliamentary groups have shown that they are obviously aware of these cases. There is now no need to know whether, having knowledge of these cases, we intend to solve the problems. It is that the Government has not taken steps to solve these problems and the situation cannot be extended indefinitely, because, every month, the lives of many people are worsened. It is therefore necessary to act now and bring a law to the Assembly of the Republic which can be done quickly and urgently and which will be effective in solving these problems, for example by creating automations for the issue of multi-use certificates, creating automations for the renewal of those that already exist and even creating measures to solve structural problems, making it not only public health doctors to do medical joints, but that these can be extended to many other specialists, in order to give a more rapid response to all people. The PSD member said he considered the resolution to be the responsibility of the Government. We disagree about that. The government has not been able to solve the problem. The Assembly of the Republic may produce a law which comes into force almost immediately and which can solve the problem almost immediately, so we must not rule out that possibility. I repeat, we must not rule out this possibility. We have to answer right now! If we know what the problems are, we cannot ignore them. Mrs Susana Amador says that the PS has some availability for the renewal of the attestations that are already issued. Good, but it's not enough. I repeat, it is not enough, because these, by 31 December, are already planned, and the situation is still very serious. It takes a lot more than this. Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Left Block, it is obvious that we are fully available for any solution that is indeed a solution and not an extension, nor a discharge of responsibilities.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u81	I would ask you to finish, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u82	I will finish, Mr. President. We want solutions to this problem. I think that is what many thousands of people demand from the Assembly of the Republic. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u83	We will enter the third point of our agenda today, which is from the discussion of Resolution Projects 600 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Conditions for successful introduction of 5G and consequently of the digital transition process, 590 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — For a public and universal telecommunications service in Portugal : 5G, opportunity to change course, 632 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Recommendations to the Government and ANACOM arising from the implementation of 5G networks, particularly in low-density territories, and 645 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — By a sector of public and universal telecommunications in Portugal. Mr João Gonçalves Pereira, from the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u84	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: One of the country's priorities is the digital transition. The CDS understands that communication development is the engine of the digitization of our economy. It ended in July the public consultation of the draft 5G auction regulation, where several government bodies, two regional governments, regulators, public institutions, local authorities, electronic communications service providers, manufacturers and the general public were involved, and nearly 500 contributions were received and it is now Parliament's time to deliver. The situation of the pandemic caused by COVID-19 forced the suspension of the 5G frequency allocation process and, more importantly, created a new context for current operators and potential new entrants. It seems undeniable that the strategic options and measures envisaged for 5G, having been designed in a pre-pandamy scenario, should be reviewed, appropriate and balanced. Experience over the past two decades has shown that there has been a huge investment effort and network coverage by operators. This effort was essentially on the coast of the country and on large urban centers, being evident to everyone who is within the country that there are greater network difficulties, which compromises competition, the best price and the service to the consumer. while promoting selective coverage that covers the main strategic agents of digital transition it is essential to ensure territorial cohesion and the protection of the most disadvantaged populations. With the declared and merit of ANACOM ( National Communications Authority ) in promoting more competition on the market there may be a potential risk in the unintended auction regulation of using the spectrum reserved for new entrants by potential entities for purely speculative purposes. The combination of three conditions expressed in the auction regulation for new entrants, if analyzed cumulatively, entails risks, i.e. the reserve of the spectrum of 3G and 4G for new entrants with the absence of any coverage obligation for those acquiring this spectrum, adding to this the access of national roaming for those acquiring this spectrum without the obligation to develop their own network, may set a distortion on the market, a problem of competition and a risk of speculative use of auction conditions. If this situation remains in the regulation, we are certainly promoting a scenario of litigation between the State, ANACOM, market operators and new entrants and this may entail a suspension of investments in the development of 5G, and this is a risk that the country cannot take. The CDS presents in this draft resolution a set of amendments to the regulation, providing that operators that prioritize investments within the country, where there is today a greater difficulty in covering, may come to enjoy better payment conditions. We so often talk about the problems of the interior, of territorial cohesion, and it is precisely with concrete measures that we will develop this same interior. We also propose: to introduce the roaming obligation to low-density areas on a reciprocal basis between operators, allowing more competition and meeting the objectives of territorial and social cohesion; to ensure that any spectrum following auction exists an investment commitment in network infrastructures, i.e. coverage commitment; to impose coverage obligations of the population and territory to all entities to which spectrum is assigned; to provide the country with broadband services and promote territorial cohesion; to associate, in particular, new entrants to the market, with coverage obligations to the reserved 3G and 4G spectrum; and to ensure that these coverage obligations are equivalent to those fixed to the current network operators when they entered the market; to extend the deadlines for compliance with 5G coverage obligations from five to seven years to accommodate the negative impacts of the macroeconomic context caused by the pandemic.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u85	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u86	We also propose to create incentives for investment if investments are made in the first three years, in anticipation of the achievement of the objectives previously set out in the auction regulation, which provides for five years for the implementation of investments. 5G is a great technological opportunity for the country in the next decade. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u87	For an intervention, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u88	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: If the country's experience in telecommunications teaches us something, the policies of these decades, privatization, liberalisation and oligopoly, have had disastrous consequences for the people and for the workers, the economy and the productive sectors, in particular for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. by delivering an absolutely strategic sector to multinationals, the PS governments, PSD and CDS have subjected the country to an unbearable bill,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u89	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u90	... from the point of view of the exorbitant costs of telecommunications operators, but also at the social level, with the precariousness, subcontracting and the attack on the rights of those working in the sector. A few months ago, this House passed by a Secretary of State who, repeating the cartel of the economic groups in the sector, came up in the threats around the competition regulation for the introduction of the 5G system in Portugal, in an attack on ANACOM unprecedented by a politician. Once again, it has been demonstrated that this whole talk of market regulation, such as an alibi for privatization, these tributes and praise to regulators, all of this falls to the ground when regulatory entities fail to comply with the script that is foreseen. It is a pity that the government is not here today, but one day we will have to know whether this unfortunate document, which is the strategy and timing of the distribution of the fifth generation of mobile communications. ( Resolution of the Council of Ministers No 7 - A / 2020 ), will or will not be repealed and replaced by a strategy that makes sense. It is that in this 5G strategy, in view of the level of coverage, reliability and availability of the 4G network, which are now scandalously beyond what would be required, the Government sets as its national objective in this area to ensure that the 4G covers schools and the North line within a time limit to be determined! And with counter-benefits to operators! We are faced with a policy option of total subservience to the economic groups which now dominate the sector and which is absolutely unacceptable. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This is neither a war between the economic groups that dominate the sector and the economic groups that want to enter. What is really at stake is the defense of public interest and national interest against the power of multinationals. The basic policy options in this area will necessarily have to go beyond the regulatory mechanisms at the centre of spectrum auction. What is urgent and indispensable for the country in this field is the reconstitution of a public operator, which is effectively responsible for defining and implementing a strategy for modernization and development of the sector. The CCP proposes, therefore, that the CCP proposes: that the Government of the CCP proposes: that the CCP proposes: that the Government should be positioned in the reconstruction of the public operator and in a public service telecommunications service, ensuring a quality and economically accessible offer in telephone, electronic and television communications, rather than a supposed competitive market dominated by an oligopopopopolio of multinationals; that the Government should cancel the auction of the public domain right to use the radio spectrum over the radio spectrum, by establishing its management and public exploitation, and by establishing, where necessary, and developing, where necessary, partnerships with the private sector, but without giving them the control and management of networks; that the Government should, without giving them the control and management and management of the mobile broadband broadband management systems, together with the introduction in Portugal of the 5G of the operating systems, and the use of existing systems, and the operation of existing networks, and the operation of existing networks, a universal communications and electronic communications network, indicating, and electronic communications service services, and electronic networks, indicating the whole of the whole of the railway network of the railway network (the railway network, including the railway network of the railway network of the railway (the railway network, including the only and the railway network of the railway network of the railway network of the railway (the railway network of the single (the railway network) and national government and the railway network of the European system in the single (the European system of the European system of the single (the railway network of the railway (the European network of the railway (the European network and the Union), and the European network of the European system of the Union and the European (and the European system of the European system of the European (and the network of the network of the network of the network of the network of the network of the euro (and the European’s) and the European (and the European ( A strategic change in the development of the telecommunications sector is essential in the context of the introduction of 5G technology, considering sovereignty and the public domain over the radio spectrum. That is the meaning of our proposal. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u91	For an intervention, Mrs. Isabel Lopes of the PSD has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u92	Mr. President and Mr. And Mr. Members: The implementation of fifth generation mobile networks is about to happen. I do not know whether this phrase is a question or a statement, given the enormous controversy that has been involved in this whole process since the beginning. But it is not the manifest disarticulation and the strong accusations between operators, governments and regulators, ANACOM, which we want to discuss here today. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the auction for the allocation of frequencies necessary for the fifth generation of mobile networks is scheduled to begin this month of October and according to the government schedule, at the end of 2025 90% of the population will tend to have access to 5G. Referring to this percentage of the population, this means that much of the territory will be left without this coverage. This situation, to be true, implies that 1 million inhabitants will be excluded. This non-covering means injustice! We hope that, as has happened in the past, it is not once again the population of the interior to be without the coverage of 5G as it has been left without mobile communications, without internet and even without TDT ( terrestrial digital television). In the future, the territories that remain without the coverage of 5G will not be attractive to live and work, speeding up, vehemently and irremediable, their depopulation. Because the doubts lie in the face of a reality of continuing disadvantage from the interior and because the prospects for change appear once again uncertain, then let us talk about concrete measures of appreciation of the interior and for the cohesion of Portugal as enshrined in the draft resolution presented today by the PSD that makes recommendations to the government and ANACOM due to the implementation of 5G networks, particularly within the country. Thus, in order to ensure digital accessibility throughout the national territory, it is proposed to adopt measures of which particular importance: to ensure that the allocation of 5G network coverage is planned throughout the territory, based on criteria that are not exclusively demographic; to provide for positive discrimination through the allocation of incentives to operators who, on the other hand, give priority to investments in low-density territories; to ensure that the national timetable for the implementation of 5G is no longer delayed in order to fully enjoy and in good time the competitive advantages of adopting this important lever of digital transformation; to study the possibility of applying a roaming regime in the currently degurancided regions — I repeat, in the currently deguranted regions —... [[PSD applause.]] ... as an instrument that will allow greater coverage of operators. With these measures — and so on — we want justice to be done and equality promoted throughout the national territory. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u93	You have the floor for an intervention by the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Isabel Pires.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u94	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Access to telecommunications has proved, particularly during the pandemic, essential for almost all — public services such as schools and health centres, micro and small businesses and families. Despite this, the sector continues to offer a service with failures, at various levels, and at the same time is fully liberalized. There is still insufficient network coverage in several municipalities and parishes in the country, with a special incidence in the regions of the interior of the country—but not only—which accentuates territorial inequalities and does not respond to the principle of universal access. On the other hand, the prices charged in Portugal are the highest in Europe and, moreover, it is not difficult to see that the latest study by APRITEL, the Telecommunications Operators Association, leads to a mistake, since it compares services that are not comparable. In Portugal, prices are the highest for a service that is the same in all operators, with no margin of choice for the consumer, unlike the other countries. But also the rates of loyalty and « relidelation» are high, with clear damage to the citizens, the theme for which the DECO (Portuguese Consumer Defense Association) has, for example, been warning for a long time. As far as the country's strategic needs are concerned, all of them are unfortunately reminded of the serious failures that have occurred, from the point of view of the telecommunications infrastructure, which is privatized. No less important, this is the sector of activity that has come to precaution its workers, being particularly burdensome the use of false outsourcing and false service services, which has emptied the tables of the largest companies in the sector in Portugal. And no one forgets the Altice precaution process. The regulators, as well as consumer protection associations, have been identifying many of these failures over the years in a sector that has an almost oligopoly regime by 3 operators in front of millions of consumers. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this scenario has objectively harmed consumers, but it has also harmed the State itself, and therefore can only have a conclusion: the rescue to the public sphere of one of the most important and strategic sectors of the country's economy. at this moment, we find ourselves at a particularly sensitive time to discuss these matters, since, with the auction of 5G spectrum rights to decide the next 20 years of telecommunications in Portugal, the conditions for consumer protection and public interest must be guaranteed as soon as possible in order to avoid more than two decades of service which falls short of the needs of the population and which is voted in the fight only between three operators. That is why the Left Block considers it essential to provide a public and universal telecommunications service to the country, by rescuing to the State the basic network that was captured by the Altice, the fruit of the ruinous privatization of PT ( Portugal Telecom ) and that should never have left the public sphere. This is a fundamental condition for curbing depopulation, reducing regional asymmetries and guaranteeing the sovereignty of the country. To this end, we say in the project that the 5G auction needs to be suspended, opting for public management and exploitation in network management and that it is necessary to restore a 100 % public operator, which aims at universal access to telecommunications, both for citizens and at the level of infrastructure, particularly rail and road, and that it is in view of the quality supply and is economically accessible to all and for all. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, when we talk so much about digital transition, we must not leave behind values such as universality in access to telecommunications or the guarantee of public interest, at the risk that we will be leaving the monopoly of something so essential to our country. We therefore believe that it is time for Parliament to decide on a different strategy, which effectively defends the interest of Portugal. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u95	Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u96	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In the implementation of an infrastructure as important as 5G in Portugal, we should in fact, Mr Bruno Dias, learn from the lessons of the past because the provision of telecommunications services, to which the CFP and the Block seem to want to return for years, distorted the market and limited competition, to the detriment of the citizens. The lesson of the past is simple: one cannot protect one's incompetents and one can't accept monopolies, public or private. The important thing in this auction should be clear: ensuring that there is competition, spectrum sharing, entry of more virtual mobile operators and creating conditions for the appearance of so-called private networks, which are crucial in certain cutting-edge activities. But it cannot be synonymous with protecting new entrants. They must be bound to minimum coverage within certain periods, such as the other competitors, be able to use existing infrastructures, but not compulsively or free of charge, which would be a form of expropriation—one more — of the investments made by others. It is also not understood that it continues to allow dealers of certain frequencies not to use them for years or to see their licenses revoked. In the end, it's always the consumer who pays. This should be the role of the regulator — to ensure fair conditions of competition and not to decide a priori who wins and who loses on the market. The former Secretary of State shared this vision and was removed. Over a few days, the government has been promoting one of these operators who does not use the spectrum. Coincidence? We don't know. But proximity between the telecommunications and PS governments is something that no one will ever see again. [[Congrats by the CDS-PP Member João Gonçalves Pereira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u97	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Greens.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u98	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are talking today about 5G technology, a matter of extreme importance, but which is even more important if we consider that there is nothing less to it than the rights of use of the radio spectrum for the next two decades. Now, when it comes to a matter involving 20 years, it is advised not only that the spectrum is in the public domain of the State, but also that the common sense tells us that if there is anything useful in the mistakes it is to learn from them to avoid them in the future. That is why it would be good — on behalf of the public interest and also of the need to protect consumers — that, before making any decision, if you made a reading of what happened back and a diagnosis of the current situation, exactly to prevent the mistakes made in the past. So when we look back, and for the 4G, what stands out, firstly, are the deficiencies that have been dragged in time. We refer, for example, to the sharing of infrastructure between the various operators, which does not exist and which has seriously compromised the acceptable performance of the service. And if we look at the levels of coverage in many of our country's councils, especially in the interior, we realize, without great effort, that coverage is absolutely inadequate and often there is no coverage. This is no longer to speak of the values paid, which are of the highest in Europe, or how operators look at their workers, leaving them in a cruel and absolute precarious manner. The reason is simple and customary: operators are guided only by the interests of their shareholders, because the needs of the populations have no relevance, and the state in turn pretends that they do not see and that nothing happens. And the populations, instead of having network coverage, are literally watching ships. Now, these are exactly these failures, these deficiencies that must be avoided, now with the technologies and the 5G system. But, in our view, this is only objectively possible through the recovery of a public and universal telecommunications service, it is only possible with the guarantee of the public domain of the radio spectrum and with the management and public exploitation of networks. Therefore, at this stage, rather than auctions, what is required is that the Government hand in rebuilding a public operator and a public telecommunications service capable of ensuring a quality and economically accessible offer in communications. It is necessary to decide on a universal service of electronic communications, with the aim of price reduction and it is also necessary to move towards achieving full coverage of the national territory. This is the case, in the Greens' perspective, if the Government is even willing to place the public interest above the interests of the private sector. This is what the government should do, if it does not want to fall into the mistakes of the past, because if we learn nothing from the mistakes little by little we will be doing. [[Congrats from PCP MP Bruno Dias.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u99	I have the floor for an intervention by the Parliamentary Group of the PAN, Mr Nelson Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u100	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: 5G is the latest technological progress in telecommunications and will enable greater connectivity between people, but mainly between things and people. It will enable us to develop mechanisms of empowerment that will ultimately make the industrial revolution 4.0 a total reality, benefiting companies, entities and also people, through technological advances that 5G will enable, in the fields of medicine, public transport, public services, among many others. However, any step a country takes in the direction of technological innovation must be thought of with responsibility, knowledge of cause and the ground prepared, at legislative and regulatory level, in order to be able to take this step safely, in particular with regard to cybersecurity, data protection or even environmental impact. But not one of these actions has been executed! Not a single one! Otherwise, let us see: the regulatory entity, ANACOM, is not at least prepared to regulate this activity, simply because it does not have the studies necessary to be able to make conscious decisions about safeguarding the public interest. Our legislative and social security base is not ready for the protection of employment, which, with the 5G and the automation and artificial intelligence coming from there, may put thousands of jobs at risk. The proposals presented here are, in our view, dangerous irresponsibility. A large part of the professional community, from programmers to operators in telecommunications — and although they benefit from this technology — have alerted to the possible dangers of telecommunications. The NAP has no technological disagreement with 5G, but its implementation can never happen at any cost and can never happen without relevant information. More than 200 scientists and public health experts have issued two appeals — one to the United Nations and the World Health Organization and another to the European Commission in September 2017 — in which they have declared that the effects of wireless radiation are "... demonstrably harmful to human beings". Scientists included in the appeals a long list of proven adverse public health effects. on this issue, we cannot have political bipolarity. If we listen to the scientific community for the COVID-19 and other sensitive issues, we cannot ignore it for what does not suit the interests installed, both economically and telecommunications. The Government has decided not to make public the content of a 5G safety study. This study is done, others are now missing, but it is inconceivable that it is not made known to this House, so that it can make its decisions properly informed. What the NAP defends is more serious and responsibility in addressing this issue, which must be sensitive. Without previous studies of the impact of 5G on public health, animal welfare and environmental impact, developed by independent entities, we cannot, in conscience, vote favourably none of these proposals here under discussion, because none of them have the responsible view that the subject requires, focusing only on economic factors and not on people, biodiversity and nature. [[PAN's applause.]] [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice-President Antonio Filipe.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u101	Mrs. Members, at present, the Bureau does not register any more entries for interventions, although time is available. [[Pause.]] Mr Filipe Pacheco, from the PS, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u102	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to begin by congratulating all the parties here today to present recommendations to the Government on the current frequency allocation process for 5G and other relevant ranges of the electromagnetic spectrum. These recommendations show how important this process is for our country, not only in a logic of the advantages that 5G will bring, as technology and tool to develop our economy and improve the lives of citizens and businesses, but also of opportunity to correct past mistakes and current problems of our telecommunications infrastructure. The Socialist Party has had a clear and constant position on 5G. For PS, this process has to reach the most dynamic and critical agents in the current digital transition process, which are universities and schools, research centres, industrial areas, ports and airports, all means of transport, hospitals and health centers. This process must also be universal in its access, reaching the entire territory and population, ensuring territorial cohesion; it must also ensure that this is an opportunity to extend the coverage of 4G, covering, for example, all public schools at all levels of education, something to which operators are not currently required, Mr Bruno Dias ; it must also ensure that the revenue from the frequency auction is used in measures to support projects to encourage transition and digital inclusion; it must identify and finance projects that post and value the 5G ecosystem in our country; it must ensure transparency of the whole process, thus creating a digital platform, in open data, monitoring and monitoring of the quality and coverage of the adoption of 5G; it must harmonize procedures in the development of the network, involving authorities and service providers; it has to bet on the promotion of energy efficiency and environmental sustainability, in the installation of 5G systems. It has to do all this, and this is reflected in the resolution of the Council of Ministers, adopted on 7 February, which implemented the national strategy for 5G, with concrete, short- and medium-term objectives, and with a well-defined timetable, which, as we know, was interrupted only by the current pandemic we live and which, like other countries in Europe and the world, has delayed the planned timetables and has postponed the implementation of 5G networks. But, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, adding to the delay in the process caused by the current pandemic, what are the Bloc and the PCP proposing to this House today? They see, of course, a suspension of the current auction, wounding death a process that has lasted for months, which would imply a delay impossible to recover. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is totally inconclusive with the sense of urgency established by the objectives that the Government intends to achieve and with the urgency that belongs to the world in which we live, in the context of a competitive economy that goes through a profound digital transformation. The PS, on this subject, is very clear: the suspension of the current auction that the Bloc and the PCP suggest is totally contrary to the national interest and for this they do not count on the Socialist Party. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But if we cannot stop the current process, we can also not only venture a wide range of disparate views and avulsive measures, which mix concepts and run the risk of having important omissions or being technically wrong, as is the case with PSD and CDS projects, and which, above all, are undoubtedly politically inadequate in the way and time they are presented. There are certainly principles and recommendations in these projects, such as the suggestion to study the introduction of a national or local roaming mechanism to force coverage in the various regions of the country. The fact is that the launch of the 5G frequency auction is soon to come and there must be no disarticulation between the government and ANACOM, until the law is very clear: the government is leading the process, setting strategic objectives, as it has already done, and ANACOM is supporting the government, having mandate to define the rules that will ensure that these objectives are met. This is therefore the time to respect the defined timetable, move forward with the auction and accelerate the implementation of 5G. That is what the government and the regulator are doing right now. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u103	Mr Hugo Carvalho, you have the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u104	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I would like to repeat two very clear messages, which the PSD wants to bring to this debate. The first is to take advantage of the 5G auction to get more coverage in the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u105	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u106	I think that we all agree with this, whether with the study on roaming located in the most disadvantaged regions, or with other forms of investment sharing or infrastructure by operators. The other idea, Mr President, is that the spectrum is a public good and therefore we do not want a public good to be the target of speculation, we want a public good to be used in favour of the country and the Portuguese. Therefore, whoever has to create a job will have to invest, it will have to create infrastructure in Portugal. This, for us, is also clear. We do this in institutional respect by the government and the regulator, not to delay the country. And, Mr President, I am obliged to talk about this: what the Left Block and the PCP come to propose today is to delay the country. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u107	In fact, more than that, it is to pollinate into a problem to impose an ideological cartilage.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u108	Abrenunciation!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u109	Nationalizing telecommunications? Oh, my God! Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, did you do the math? Do you know how much that costs? Is that what you mean to the Portuguese in the middle of the pandemic, in the middle of crisis? Are you going to tell the Portuguese to invest billions of euros to be owners of telecommunications companies? Is that what you want to do? Oh, my God! [[PSD applause.]] What else do you want to nationalize? Maybe, then, the cab sector is coming! Perhaps, next, you can come to Quinta da Atalaia! I don't know what else we can nationalize... in your view, who can have a family business in Portugal? But a business of a family, because a business of two families, maybe, it's too much, it's more business!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u110	Can't PSD get better than this?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u111	Mr President, what happens is that there are those who want to solve problems with solutions, there are those who want to solve problems with ideology and there are those who stay on the bench to see how the ball pushes to continue in government and power. [[PSD applause.]] In fact, what is happening is the following: the Left Block and the PCP go out there in private with the PS and set their red lines for the Budget, but then they come in and need to show that they are still different, five years later. So they bring these proposals, which I doubt even they want to be approved, to tell your electorate that they are still something different, but, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, they don't even fool anyone anymore. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u112	The PSD could better than this for the debate! It's at least...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u113	Mrs Isabel Pires has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u114	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In my remaining time, I should like to point out three notes that we believe are important for this debate. First of all, the hearings that took place in the committee, the request of the Left Block, have proved very useful to us to realize that we are facing a blackmail situation, by the government but also by a lot of pressure from the operators—in fact, even yesterday, we have heard about it and the CDS, unfortunately, has made exactly the same speech from the great operators we read in the news—to move forward with a process that has many failures. One of the major failures that have been pointed out, and which has been one of the arguments used to skip several stages and advance, is the fact that the 5G serves to bridge the coverage failures of the 4G. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, that is not necessarily the case. We all realize, in the hearings we have had, that it will not be this way and that we will therefore continue to have problems of territorial cohesion, regardless of whether we have 5G or 4G. That's not what's gonna solve the problem! Mr President, in conclusion, I would like to say that what is going to solve the problem — and from that point on — has to do with the fact that we are talking about a public good, as Mr Hugo Carvalho said. Mr Deputy, I remember that PT was one of the best companies in the world in telecommunications.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u115	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u116	He knows there! [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u117	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u118	Therefore, it would be good to remember what the country has already had and what the country has lost because of the privatizations that have been made over the past few years. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u119	Mr Bruno Dias has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u120	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: When we hear about protection to the indemnity, we need to be careful about the stories we have miscounted. In other words, PT was a privatised company, robbed and decapitalized by the economic groups which it appropriated. Protected were the BES (Banco Espírito Santo ) and the Group Espírito Santo! We still remember the committee of inquiry and we still remember Mr. Zeinal Bava, who was your hero and who, now, no one knows! [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] We still remember what was modern in your speech! Protected are the economic groups, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen! The current coverage of telecommunications networks is a scandal! It is a supreme hypocrisy that has been complicit, in particular, of the policies and options that led to the abandonment of the interior of the country and of the populations to speak in total coverage of the territory with 5G. To say now that it is necessary to do what was not done when he was in power is unacceptable!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u121	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u122	Mr President, I conclude with the following: the PS says that we cannot waste time and the PSD says that we do not want to delay, but totally contrary to the national interest, Mrs. Members, it is this subservience of those who sacrifice the country to the interests of multinationals. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u123	We shall then proceed to the conclusion of this debate. To that end, Mr João Gonçalves Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u124	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Listening to the PCP and the Left Block is a kind of anecdotal. It's anecdotes!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u125	It's a challenge!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u126	They want to suspend everything, stop everything, bring public investment and taxpayers' money to new companies, to nationalize... you don't understand anything! So, you guys have an agenda, put the tape in there, and then come over here...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u127	You've got it, too!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u128	And you don't? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u129	No, no! Sir, I heard you, I heard the anecdotes, I heard the cassette, I heard everything!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u130	You don't have an agenda because you have Altice's!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u131	Now, the PCP and the Left Block don't explain one thing: what are they going to do? Are you going to nationalize? Are you going to create a root company and do not know how many investments? What are you gonna do?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u132	At least read the proposals!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u133	It is not worth spending too much time with this, even because only for network investment5G, we are talking about around EUR 1000 million — EUR 1000 million from taxpayers! That's it! We need to talk about numbers, not just say: "Let's nationalize! » We need to talk about numbers so that people are aware of what we are talking about. Then the Socialist Party comes to this debate and says: "Well, the regulation, as it is, is good. There's no need to move on, let's just let the thing go, 'cause what's right there is. » No, sir! There was a public consultation, we hoped it would end, and now is the time for Parliament to take a decision. That's what the CDS did, constructively.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u134	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u135	The CDS gave way to public consultation and presented an initiative indicating the fragility of the regulation and the praise, also in the parts that are good, giving its contribution. That is what Parliament is required to do, it is not to pretend that there is nothing! Only to have an idea—this is why the PCP and the Left Block no longer speak—what is the forecast of the economic impact of 5G in the country? What is planned for the next 15 years is something like EUR 35 billion. This doesn't matter, it doesn't mean more employment and better economy! This is no longer relevant! Mr President, in conclusion, I would like to say that the balance of this debate, which the CDS has promoted, is positive, because, regardless of the proposals and the projects are approved or not yet, surely today, ANACOM and the Government itself cannot remain indifferent to this debate and to these initiatives. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u136	We will now move to the fourth point of our order of business, which consists in the assessment of the Resolution Project No. 649 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government adopt the procedures to ensure that the crime of ecocidal crime is enshrined in the list of crimes provided for in the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court. To present this draft resolution, I give the floor to Mrs Bebiana Cunha.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u137	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The NAP brings you a proposal for reflection and political action on what continues to happen as the background of the crises we are now experiencing — the crisis and environmental attacks. It has been the predation of nature, the invasion of natural habitat and ecosystems, the growing invasion of the wild animal space, the domestication of some animals, the demand for unbridled exploitation, the sale of animals in markets, finally a series of behaviors, which have led to the spread of zoonoses between animals and human beings, as is the case with COVID-19. We cannot neglect that, as long as we live this health context, we also experience a climate crisis. We are less than eight years from the point of no return of climate balance and life as we know it. The percentage of the world's population estimated by scientists to survive climate change is 13%. It is that when ecosystems are destroyed, biodiversity and climate balance are destroyed as well, the lives of future generations are worsened. All in the name of business profits, usually multinationals, that suck up and destroy as much as they can, destroying a common good for economic interests. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, economic interests have to go along with environmental interests, because it is of no benefit if there is no environment. So, today, we've been talking about ecociding, a crime permitted by law. Let's see, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the examples I am presenting. In Borneu and Sumatra, the destruction of habitat, the result of intensive exploitation of natural resources, deforestation and poaching and palm oil plantations have caused more than 150 000 oranges to disappear in just 20 years. The five islands of plastic in the oceans, which are the result of many decades of discharges—in the Pacific, the island of 100 million tons of pieces of plastic, microplastics, abandoned fishing equipment is the size of Germany, France and Spain together—, destroy ecosystems and kill millions of animals per year. In Nigeria, Niger Valley, oil companies have led to massive destruction with spills, coupled with human rights violations associated with working conditions. The name Prestige, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it reminds us of one of the major tragedies in Europe: the sinking of an oil tanker carrying 77 000 tonnes of fuel oil. For months, they were volunteers, dressed in white monkey suits, surrounded by raw, who collected and cleaned the pasto and black fuel that reached the coast. In Amazonia, there are deforestation and burning policies to promote the business of livestock and intensive plantations, which divide the forest, biodiversity, ecosystems, at an unstoppable pace. It is an ecocide that again violates human rights. We talk about ecociding when there is extensive damage, destruction or loss of ecosystems in a given territory due to human action, so much that the enjoyment of this territory by local inhabitants has been severely affected. As far as ecociding is concerned, we cannot fail to make a reference to Higgins, a British lawyer who devoted his life to the recognition of the ecociding as the fifth crime against humanity, provided for in the International Criminal Court ( ICTI ). We know, ladies and gentlemen. Members, who are likely to anticipate some formal obstacles, but let us not compromise on formality and try to find solutions. What the NAP brings here today is a challenge for Portugal to stand alongside Sweden and France on this path and diplomatically bring other countries to this cause — the cause of the common good, the ecological cause. [[PAN's applause.]] During the intervention, images were designed, which can be seen at the end of the DAR.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u138	For an intervention, Mr. Nelson Peralta has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u139	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The destruction of ecosystems is in fact one of the main problems of our times and, since it is a problem now, needs a solution for now. This is a problem that aggravates the situation of the poorest communities, it is a problem that puts the climate crisis as a crisis for the sustainability of humanity itself and therefore we are in favour of adding the crime of ecocidalism to the list of crimes that can be judged by the International Criminal Court. In fact, it would not be very new, because this court already has the power to judge echoes that are perpetrated in the war scene, and it is now lacking to extend it to the peace scenario. In fact, the ecocide began with a discussion about the atrocities committed during the Vietnam War. Looking at this war, we realize that Monsanto and Dow Chemical, who manufactured the orange agent, responsible for so many environmental atrocities, but also humanitarian, are still the big companies in the sector. Those who profit from environmental destruction will continue to profit, unless the situation is obviously stopped. Let us look at the example of our days, the destruction of Amazonia, which is done precisely because it gives money and fills the pockets to some financial elite of the world who wants to destroy Amazonia to take wood, to create cattle, to plant soybeans. That's why the ecocidal should be a crime. Looking at Brazil, we realize that President Bolsonaro is very interested in disprotecting Amazonia precisely because it represents not the interests of Brazilian workers, but the Brazilian predatory elite and the world that wants to destroy Amazonia. That is why we defend that whoever commits the destruction of ecosystems should sit in the bank of the defendants. But, in an even broader way, we realize that if capitalism sits in the bank of the defendants of history, it will be considered guilty,... [[Rises and protests from PSD Member Nuno Miguel Carvalho and CDS-PP Member João Pinho de Almeida.]] ... guilty of the destruction of ecosystems, guilty of the climate crisis, of the promotion of poverty, of the promotion of social inequality. That is why we need to create an alternative and that is why we are here. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u140	Mr Nuno Carvalho has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u141	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Of course, this is a matter of reflection, as I said, and well, Mrs PAN. Now, reflecting on the matter, we are against the illegal deforestation in Amazonia; when we look at the subject, we are against the large proportion of waste that exists in the Pacific, with plastic islands; and we have to be against a series of climate change and environmental crimes in which we have to be more efficient. There are a number of conventions that have made criminal environmental law more efficient, but we must go further, we must be able to do better. But in this reflection that the honourable Member brings, I find it strange to reflect only on part of history. That is the mistake, because history, with regard to the crime of ecocidalism, already exists, even with several attempts to arrive at a typification, to arrive at a definition of crime that allows it to be efficient.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u142	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u143	What Mrs. PAN's deputy seems to be an idea that the eco-crime has recently been invented and the PAN is now ready to implement it. It's not like that, not near or far. And it was not only in 1972, with the Stockholm Convention, that the issue of ecocidalism was revisited, it was also in a UN subcommission ( United Nations ) in 1978. Mrs. Member, why didn't you go ahead at the time? Madam Member, why is it that, in this draft resolution, it does not address the issues that, at the time, have raised and raised obstacles for us not to move forward? It is that there are legal technical issues that have to be overcome. The honourable Member has a simplistic definition which is dangerous. Do you know why it's dangerous? I give you an example: imputation of crime, as mentioned in your draft resolution, without any intention of doing so. Do you intend to put trees down? It does not, therefore, have to use recycled paper. By the way, I don't think so, because of what I'm seeing, but still good. You know why? The production of recycled paper per tonne consumes more than 750 kW and more than 25 % water. Is Mrs. Deputy guilty of this? It's not! There must be some intention. By its definition, the honourable Member would be guilty. Did you know that? If there is no definition, we have an obstacle. The right must be defined. If it's vague, it's not applicable, the law has to be right. We are in favour of the criminalization of the ecocidal situation, but not in this way that it presents itself. Madam Member, we have obstacles to overcome, but in the way it does, it seems that only the NAP defends the criminalization of the ecocidal situation, it seems that only the NAP knows how to define what ecocidalism is. What the honourable Member puts in her definition is simple: « for the government to adopt the relevant procedures ». For what? For what, Mrs. Deputy? Oh, my God! How, Mrs. Deputy? Oh, my God! Do you think this is how you're going to solve the situation? 'In order for the Government to adopt the relevant procedures'? Oh, my God! The UN has failed! We are in favour of an efficient instrument being created. It may be through the ICT, but it may also not be. The ecocidal crime must exist, but as you are doing so, you are creating obstacles. Be serious, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u144	Also for an intervention, Mrs Lara Martinho has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u145	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have discussed a proposal for a recommendation for the Government to adopt the procedures to ensure that the crime of ecocidal crime is enshrined in the list of crimes provided for in the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court. The proponents aim to typify the ecocidal as a new international crime, assuming as the fifth crime against peace. Without a doubt, this is a relevant and high-density issue, which deserves a shared and in-depth debate, and we consider it important that there are international instruments that can combat all kinds of environmental crimes that affect ecological balance. However, the analysis of this initiative implies that we take into account three aspects: the work that has been carried out over the years on this subject, the current framework and the timetable in which it is presented. Let's go to history. The idea that the ecocidal is recognized as an international crime is prior to the formation of the International Criminal Court itself. Since the 1970s it has been discussed the proposal for the criminalization of ecocidalism : it was discussed at the Stockholm Conference in 1972, and has been the subject of several studies by the Subcommission for the Prevention of Discrimination and Protection of Minorities and by the UN Commission on International Law, during the discussion of the draft Code of Offensions against Peace and Security of Humanity, which originated the Rome Statute. However, the inclusion of environmental concerns in the Rome Statute was limited to covering only intentional acts of environmental degradation perpetrated as war crimes. In 2010 a formal proposal was again submitted to the United Nations Commission on Rights for the introduction of an amendment to the International Treaty for the inclusion of the ecocidal as a crime against nature. However, to date there has been no consensus on the definition of this crime that is not limited to issues related to armed conflict. Let's also go to the current framework. We cannot ignore that they are currently being examined by the Working Group on Amendments other amendments, two of which aim to include new crimes in the Rome Statute. This significant number of amendment proposals includes amendments recently adopted by the Assembly of States Parties which have added new crimes to the Statute, and has caused discomfort to several States parties, who fear a fragmentation of the Rome Statute and as such have expressed their intention not to approve new amendments of this content to the Rome Statute. The International Criminal Court must deal with a set of external challenges such as the lack of universality of the Rome Statute, its national implementation, the need for greater State cooperation and political support to maintain its integrity and legitimacy. And these are points we cannot ignore. All of this adds to the question of the timetable. The Rome Statute provides that, after seven years after the entry into force of this Statute, any State Party may propose amendments thereto. However, it provides that, at least three months after the date of this notification, the Assembly of States Parties shall decide at the following meeting by a majority of its members present and voting, the proposal should be considered. Therefore, as the next session of the Assembly of the States Parties of the International Criminal Tribunal is scheduled to start on 7 December this year, it will no longer be possible for the next session of the Assembly to take action on a proposal to be submitted by Portugal, since less than three months are left for its implementation. We therefore consider that to be the case, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a new proposal for an amendment to the Rome Statute with a view to adding a new crime, since it would not bring together the necessary traction for its approval at the moment. Finally, it appears to be also inappropriate, given the particularly complex moment and the crossroads that the Court itself goes through. in this context, we consider it to be limiting the amendments to the Statute from the main defenders of the Court, among which Portugal is included. However, we consider it relevant and we are available to deepen the discussion of this issue, to which the world of international environmental law is particularly attentive, because, without a wide protection of the environment, human life on Earth will not be possible. Portugal assumes, in this area, as in others, the commitment to make efforts at international level, in order to continue with a full and comprehensive agenda. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u146	Mr Ventura has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u147	Mr President, the project that the NAP brings to us has merit and difficulty. In fact, it is worth bringing to the discussion of international criminal law the issue of environmental protection, and that is an indisputable advantage. It also has a great disadvantage, which is to ignore or, at least, to promote ignorance of the essentials of what would be a crime without any intention and without any subjective domain. It would be a complete reversal of what we have in the international legal order. This is not a new crime, because since the 1980s the ecocidal debate has been taking place. The big question is how could Portugal propose the typification of a crime without giving it its subjective and objective elements, which the NAP does not do. It makes a mere political proposal, a mere political programme, without any legal densification, knowing that no other, so far, has worked in various commissions both of the UN and of the International Criminal Court. It is not surprising that some, who come here to say that « Brazil this and Brazil that», have forgotten to speak of Bolivia or the former Soviet Union and environmental tragedies, which led everyone, at that time, to unaware of the great crimes against the environment. It seems only now that there are crimes against the environment, it seems that only since the election of Jair Bolsonaro has become a concern. But when Communist friends destroyed Eastern Europe, there was no problem and no one sat on the bank of the defendants.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u148	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u149	Mr. Nelson Peralta, on the day capitalism sits in the bank of the defendants, the communists will all be sitting there.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u150	Mr João Oliveira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u151	Mr. President, after the intervention of the spokesman of Jair Bolsonaro and Donald Trump,... [[Mr. BE Nelson Peralta's laughs.]] ... let's go back to the discussion of the draft resolution of the NAP. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u152	Through the draft resolution that brings to the debate today, the NAP proposes that the Assembly of the Republic recommend to the Government that it submit to the UN Secretary-General a proposal to amend the Statute of the International Criminal Tribunal to ensure the consecration of the crime of ecocidalism in the list of crimes provided for in the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court. It is important to distinguish two different aspects on this subject: the target end and the intended environment. The aim is generous and understandable. The explanatory statement of this draft resolution states that in June 2019 the United Nations presented a report on human rights, showing that the unequal distribution of climate change impacts in developing regions and developed regions put the world at risk of climate apartheid, in which the rich pay to escape overheating, hunger and conflict, while the rest of the world suffers. The purpose of including environmental protection in law and practice and promoting international cooperation with this objective is something that should guide the action of the Portuguese State. But if we can say that we share the constant concerns of the NAP project with regard to the target end, we no longer feel appropriate the proposed means to pursue it. We refer to the International Criminal Court. Portugal's ratification of the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court was only possible after a controversial extraordinary constitutional review in 2001. It was not only the PCP that opposed this review, because entities such as the Order of Advocates, whose bastonaire was Dr. António Pires de Lima, or personalities such as Dr. José Pacheco Pereira, to cite only two examples of many, shared with the PCP the criticisms to this constitutional review, which, on behalf of a supposed international justice, opened gaps in the legal-criminal framework of the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, leading Portugal to accept a jurisdiction that includes life imprisonment in its criminal frameworks, opening the hand of a historic civilizational conquest of Portuguese law. The life imprisonment was abolished in Portuguese law in 1884 and expressly prohibited in the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic of 1976. In so far as the Statute of the International Criminal Court does not accept reservations, its acceptance by our country represented a serious setback in the constitutional refusal of life imprisonment.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u153	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u154	As Professor Vital Moreira well warned, the Constitution no longer contains all the Portuguese constitutional right, and may be repealed at any time by any revision of the Statute of the ICC, however dangerous or questionable it is. The CFP did not contest the establishment of an international judicial institution to judge the practice of crimes against humanity according to the criteria of justice and impartiality, in fact, it even welcomed this purpose as meritorious. To end impunity for the perpetrators of crimes that offend universal consciousness and to establish instruments for the application of international law that escape the logic of justice exercised by the winners against the losers are purposes in which we no doubt or hesitate. I said it then and we reaffirm it today. It's just that the ICT isn't that. The ICC, as the Rome Statute sets it up and as it is in fact, does not allow us to clarify this objective. An international judicial body from which the greatest powers of the world, such as the United States of America, Russia, China and India, or the largest violator of international law, the State of Israel, can not pass a presummation of court,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u155	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u156	... may not pass a pseudo-tributory which waives the right to judge the weakest, but conforms to the absolute impunity of the strongest, because, in a so-called "international community" in which the law of the strongest is governed, there is no other remedy. Inserted into an unfair international order and dependent on it, the International Criminal Court can do nothing more than apply injustice. It does not therefore seem to us that the best way to fight the ecocidal situation is to include it in the jurisdiction of the International Criminal Court. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u157	Mr Telmo Correia has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u158	Mr President, after a number of possible spokespersons from Brazil to Mr Lukashenko, I will try to focus on the issue, which is important, serious and relevant, but I confess that I have any doubt as to how to address it here. It is that if, on the one hand, the question is serious, honestly, the proposal of the NAP seems to me to be little more than a pamphlet. It is an absolutely broad proposal for several reasons which have already been explained by other parliamentary groups, and it is a pamphlet proposal until the style of some radicalism, which — Mrs Deputies will not lead me to harm — is what we often see in the NAP, some radicalism, whether animalistic, or some sort of exalted veganism, whatever it is, with this panfletary content. I would also like to tell you, Mrs Deputies, that, in our view, we are making a number of mistakes. Interestingly, the mistakes will not be exposed by me, but they were exposed when you used the word—and I do justice to the NAP for not even having that intention—Mr. Did you hear what he wants? He wants, on the pretext of your initiative, to put companies and capitalism in the bank of the defendants and, who knows, to send them to prison. And eventually, not only send all capitalism to prison — which, moreover, in the regimes that you idolize, has always happened — how you are sentenced to life imprisonment. Now, what has been said here recently makes some sense, because in fact we had to make a constitutional review to integrate the Statute of the International Criminal Court in our legal order, because the International Criminal Court precisely foresees perpetual imprisonment — and this discussion was then made with constitutional amendments and on the basis of Article 77. that of the Statute of the ICC itself, which provides for this life imprisonment. Now let's be clear: the ICC actually exists for war crimes, that's why it's molded and thought. Therefore, to treat a less respectable head of State on environmental issues, which must of course be criticized and condemned for this reason, in the same way that we would treat Mr Kadhafi or Mr Milosevic, in our view, is neither rigorous nor serious, from a political point of view, because that is not why the Court exists, from which it restricts its work in these matters to war crimes. Now, I ask the NAP: if it is really to deal with this matter, then why don't we start by moving in our own legal order? It would also make some sense here to start by making this consecration in the internal legal order, which, unlike being a vague desire for international will, is the responsibility of all of us, who are sitting here in this Parliament. And even I say more: we could change the domestic legal order, ensuring that—and there I agree with the speech of the previous Member—there is no extradition in this case too, because we cannot want extradition for some cases and, in other cases, allow the ecocides judged in Portugal to be extradited to jurisdictions where there is a perpetual prison or even death penalty. Maybe that's where we should start. It is therefore difficult to follow this proposal, in particular, as I mentioned at the outset, because, despite having essentially an important and serious intention—as the PSD Member said, with whom I agree, ecocidy is a matter that must be placed on the political agenda and on the international political agenda—the way the NAP proposes to implement it is not the correct one and it is not even feasible or feasible. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u159	Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u160	Mr President, the NAP presents us with a legislative initiative, in which it wants the Assembly of the Republic to recommend to the Government that it adopt procedures with the Secretary-General of the United Nations to ensure the consecration of the crime of ecocidalism in the list of crimes provided for in the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court, and the Greens want to leave two notes on this matter. The Greens, being even in favour of the consecration of the crime of ecocidalism, cannot vote in favour of this draft resolution of the NAP, and cannot do so - not for reasons of timetable or opportunity, but for reasons relating to the nature of the International Criminal Court. It is also recalled that the Greens also opposed the revision process of our Constitution which allowed the ratification of the treaty establishing the International Criminal Court. And why did we do it? Because we believe that the International Criminal Court is a partial tribunal, where the law of the strongest reigns, and that, even if it foresees that life imprisonment can be applied, a matter which the Greens do not follow and vehemently contest. Therefore, the Greens do not see themselves in this International Criminal Court, whose jurisprudence, in fact, is only the strengthening of the history of the winners over the losers. Therefore, we cannot vote in favour of the draft resolution presented by the NAP today, although we even appreciate the prediction of the crime of ecocidalism and consider that this should be done from an international point of view, but not by this way, not by the International Criminal Court. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u161	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, when there are no more entries, we shall proceed to the conclusion of this debate. To that end, you have the floor of Mrs Bebiana Cunha.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u162	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I want to say that we have brought here a challenge, which is basically a challenge when we take positions, which we have heard well in the various interventions, but, as we have seen in our initial intervention, the formalities have been taken to justify the various positions, when the recommendation is broad enough to allow the construction of a strategy. Now, on the side of the NAP, we prefer to do nothing and we have not seen any of the other parties bring this matter to discussion. Mrs Lara Martinho speaks of extemporaneousness. Extemporaneous, Mrs. Member, is to let the planet continue to burn. Mr Telmo Correia, thank you very much for calling us radicals. Radicalism is indeed at the root of the problem, and that is what we have been trying to do when bringing this proposal into debate. I would also like to say the following: the Members and the Members. Members who spoke of the 1996 text, where the wording that had already been prepared for the ecocidal fall did not say why it fell, but we know — I know it well, all of us! — it was under pressure from countries such as the United States. With regard to the speech of the Member of the Democratic Social Party, I must say that the PSD prefers, in this debate, to focus on the recycled role rather than on the fight against pollution industries rather than on those who pollute. We therefore ask what proposals is that the PSD has already brought in to hold those who pollute, in order to ensure that the energy transition that will take place also ensures that these companies do not continue to pollute. In conclusion, I would like to thank not only for the international road that has been made by the Stop Ecocide movement, which has already been represented in Portugal, but also for all the volunteer and activist people who have mobilized themselves against these environmental crimes, which ultimately brings us hope. from the NAP, we will continue to inspire ourselves in them and their activities against these atrocities and the destruction of the planet. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u163	We will move on to the joint assessment, in general, of Bill Nos 396 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Strengthens transparency in accession contracts (Other Decree-Law No 446 / 85 of 25 October ) and 532 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ) — Strengthens transparency and the effects of the prohibition of general clauses on accession contracts ( 4 ). the amendment to the Legal Regime of General Contract Clauses). To present the ENP bill, Mr. José Luís Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u164	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today's technical societies have led to an extraordinary increase in the number of legal businesses and people are entering into numerous contracts on a daily basis that depend on an entirely non-existence of particular initiatives with regard to the formation of contracts. The pace of life we are facing today does not allow great waste of time in negotiations on current acts. Today, business is at an incompatible pace with a negotiating scheme that enables stakeholders to exercise their freedom of celebration and, above all, of stipulation. It is not, in fact, because the doctrine often refers to accession contracts such as'serious contracts' or 'coxy contracts', precisely because, in these contracts, freedom of stipulation is not present. In other words, even though these contracts are now seen as a necessity, we cannot lose sight of the power that the use of accession contracts places in the hands of one of the parties, which are normally large companies. In fact, the abuses that accession contracts can make are more evident, as the party imposing the terms of contract is naturally tempted to consider their interests much more than the interests of the adherent. And the problem tends to gain another dimension if we take into account that citizens are increasingly forced to enter into membership contracts throughout their lives in the most diverse areas and with different entities. It happens that in the conclusion of these contracts, the consumer, most of the time, faces difficulties. This is not only because contracts have a previously written articulate and usually the consumer simply sign, but above all because many of these contracts are intentionally or not drawn up in a complex and unclear way and they present clauses with such a reduced letter that it is almost impossible to read, which means that the citizen, apart from being deprived of negotiating the clauses, often ends up not knowing very well what he is hiring. Today, more than ever, accession contracts must be clear, easy to read and interpret, ensuring that there is will and decision-making by consumers, in order to ensure that those who sign a contract are fully aware of what is being signed and of what are the rights and duties on each side, and that they should not be allowed to contain relevant information and clauses for one of the parties hidden by lowercase letters and difficult to read. We speak of a problem commonly known as the small letters or the small letters of the contracts, which includes a lot of information, sometimes even quite relevant. In fact, it usually has such a small size that it can make an important part of the contractual clauses literally pass by the person who subscribes them. thus, the Greens intend to strengthen contractual transparency and contribute to adequate protection and information of citizens, eliminating the obstacle of reduced letters, which hinder the conclusion of a contract in a conscious and informed manner, and avoiding the possibility of differences between the real will and the declared will through the contract, originating in a document that is unclear or not legible. We therefore propose that the contracts concluded comply with a minimum parameter and comply with certain rules and cannot be drawn up in letters less than 11 or 2, 5 mm or with a spacing between lines less than 1, 15, with the aim of ensuring full understanding of the contractual commitments, proposing, for this purpose, an amendment to the Legal Regime of the General Contract Clauses.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u165	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u166	To present the bill of the Left Block, Mrs. Isabel Pires has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u167	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, accession contracts are present in virtually all areas of our lives, as a result of the growing standardization of negotiations. This is a reality that covers all and all at various times in their lives, when a contract of communications, electricity, water or gas is signed. at the same time, this process revealed that the relationship between the parties has been deeply unequal. It is unequal because the consumer is not part of the preparation of the contract and it is not allowed to negotiate the conditions and it is unequal because the reality shows that much of the accession contracts continues with a too extensive and complex articulation and with a wording in lowercase letters, which makes it impossible to read and understand them, and precisely the misinformation that is at the root of many consumer conflicts, but also the use of abusive clauses. It is known, however, that, under Portuguese legislation, there are mechanisms that deal with some aspects related to accession contracts, from the legal regime of general contractual clauses or the Consumer Protection Act. However, this legislation lacks adequate reinforcement which lays down rules on the graphic presentation of contractual clauses, in particular at the level of the minimum limit of letter size and line spacing. Moreover, this claim is not new in the Assembly of the Republic, and a petition has already been debated in 2013 on this subject. This is a subject for which DECO has also been warning for many years. The unfair clauses in contracts affect the interests of consumers, favouring the strongest part, which is unacceptable. Thus, with this proposal, it is intended to prohibit the contractual clauses which are drafted with too little size and spacing. On the other hand, there is another issue which has been raised, particularly with regard to the monitoring of these abusive clauses and the processing of judicial decisions. Thus, the court decision which considers general clauses prohibited, when transited under trial, should be extended to all entities which have similar clauses to facilitate the processing of such processes, in order to better safeguard consumer protection. Finally, we believe that, in order to monitor the application and compliance of this standard, the Government must draw up and implement an appropriate monitoring system. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are talking about amendments that try to balance the balance, which today is unequal, in the contracts that we all make and use in our day to day. These are not even new proposals in the debate on contractual clauses, and we therefore believe that it will be fair to move forward in consumer protection. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u168	Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u169	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Let us begin by welcoming the parliamentary groups for the initiatives they have brought today, since this is indeed a very pressing issue. The general consumer society has developed a standardized contract model, with the proposer clearly having a strengthened negotiating position vis-à-vis the customer, thus making a real law of the strongest, which, in our view, cannot happen with regard to the consumer. This happens at the level of banking, insurance, water, light, gas or communication services. It is true that there is already a legal framework that brings protection of consumer rights, but it is no less true that, not a few times, that same protection ends up not coming out of the law or being deverted by skilled maneuvers, such as the small size of the letter with which consumers are faced in contracts. The law clearly tells us that these contracts must have a clear and precise wording, in easily legible characters, but the fact is that, in practice, the opposite is still happening, i.e., we see that it is precisely in the small letters that we find the slippers that limit the rights of consumers. This is a case that demonstrates that the legal framework lacks clarification and also shows that monitoring mechanisms are necessary, so we will follow both of the projects proposed here. However, in our view, the process of discussing these projects, in the specialty, should not be left to this aspect. With a view to protecting consumers, this can be an opportunity to go further in guaranteeing their rights and, therefore, the NAP will present amendments to put an end to two discriminatory situations occurring. On the one hand, we will propose an amendment to ensure that customer support numbers cannot be value added numbers, since the widespread imposition of these numbers brings inequalities between consumers, restricts the right of access to the contracted service and brings unjustified additional costs. On the other hand, on behalf of equality and non-discrimination, we will propose that the proponents have to ensure video-interpretation responses in gesture language so that the rights of the deaf community can also be guaranteed. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u170	Mr Ricardo Leon has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u171	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by saying that this issue is of the greatest relevance to the PS Parliamentary Group and that it has indeed come to deserve our interest and our follow-up. The guarantee of a high level of consumer protection, especially the most vulnerable, naturally accompanies the right to transparent information, and this right to information is one of the pillars of consumer protection. An informed consumer is undoubtedly a more prepared and protected consumer, and it is precisely in this principle that we must work and direct our attention. Consumer training policies developed and implemented by the current government have sought to find an appropriate response to the issue we are discussing today, through the implementation of measures and the creation of tools that enable consumers to make choices that meet their needs. under Community law, the general contractual clauses used by professionals should be fair and written in a clear and understandable language. A contract cannot create an imbalance between consumer rights and obligations and the rights and obligations of service providers, so any abusive practice must be combated and denounced. Today, more than ever, we must ensure a high level of consumer protection, aware of the challenges that digitalisation and sustainability pose to us, which will greatly contribute to the printing of consumer confidence when purchasing goods and services, both in offline environments and in online environments. Despite the relevance of these projects, which aim to strengthen transparency in accession contracts and whose good intentions we do not neglect, I would like to highlight three essential aspects which, in the view of the PS Parliamentary Group, should accompany this discussion. Firstly, I would like to point out that the issues identified regarding the size of the letter used in accession contracts have been widely discussed and analysed, much because of the difficulties leading to clarity and understanding of contracts concluded between consumers and service providers. The Consumer Protection Act states that the supplier of goods and the service provider is required to draw up clearly and in easily legible characters the general contractual clauses, including those included in individual contracts. Therefore, the transmission and provision of clear information, which enables consumers to make informed and conscious consumption options, is without a doubt an objective which we defend and which, for us, is of the greatest importance. in this context, and as I should like to point out, I would like to refer to the current European directive, recently adopted, which aims to ensure better application and modernisation of the Union rules on consumer protection, which is already being transposed into the national legal system, which should be completed by 28 November 2021. This initiative provides for, among other things, amendments to unfair clauses in contracts concluded with consumers, thus allowing for a response to the issues identified in the bills presented today by the Left Block and the ENP. It is also important to note that this legal regime has established a sanctions regime with a view to strengthening its deterrent effect. It therefore seems to us that the deepening of the rules on the type of letter and spacing between the lines to be used in the clauses contained in accession contracts should be accompanied by a more holistic and less isolated approach, as well as the appropriate time to revisit the general contractual clauses should accompany the implementation of the current European Directive, which will allow a set of changes that will contribute to increasing the level of consumer protection.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u172	Is this so complex?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u173	Sir, don't get angry. In conclusion, we believe that the proposed legislative amendments should be based on a comprehensive discussion of Community law and priorities in the areas of sustainability and digitisation, which are of greater relevance today than ever before. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u174	For an intervention, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u175	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to congratulate and greet the Greens Ecological Party on this initiative, which was followed in the same terms and with the same text by BE, and by this schedule. With regard to accession contracts, I believe that it is virtually unanimously considered that there is, in fact, an obvious inequity of arms between the parties in the presence, normally between large companies, whether in telecommunications, energy, insurance or financial sector, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, the users or consumers of such services, which are incomparably more vulnerable and which are faced with a situation that is normally ineligible to catch or drop. This is the definition of accession contracts, which becomes even more complicated and dangerous for consumers when they themselves do not have full knowledge and perception of what is being contracted, due to obstacles that are created in the conclusion of the contract. And these obstacles are created in the form of presentation of the document itself, and here we come into this problem of little letters, which is what gives rise to this discussion and to these legislative projects. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about the size of the letters in the documents, in addition to the most holistic debate that we do not refuse and that must really be done, but we think that to bring the chair it is excused will tie it to the train and then try to pull it all together. [[The CDS-PP Member's laughs João Gonçalves Pereira.]] We want to resolve this issue of transparency in accession contracts. It is particularly difficult when consumers, as we have just said, are faced with this condition of being proposing themselves in the legal term of that contract, which may make them even more vulnerable from the point of view of the contractual relationship. I would like to recall the 2012 / 2013 petition, on this same subject, which was debated in this House and which, without mistake, had more than 14 000 signatures, where this proposal was made precisely on the size of the letters of contracts. There was, in fact, a general acceptance of this idea, an interesting debate — which, in fact, can also be held in the specialty — on the consequences at the contractual level of failure to comply with this same obligation. Therefore, the cancellation of certain conditions at the level of the contract, etc. , it is a question about the consequences and results of companies that do not comply with this obligation. I would like to bring another issue to this debate, which is a more recent problem and which has to do with telecommunications services, but not only in which the acceptance of the change of contractual terms is made without paper, with the remote control of the box. This has recently taken place, in a concerted operation by telecommunications operators, which forced consumers to accept the amendment of contractual clauses in the direction of box programming for the customisation of advertising that would appear in the recordings of television channels. Now, acceptance has been put to users using remote control, so the question is no longer the size of letters on paper, it is that of sending consumers, e.g. by electronic means, in a PFD document ( portabledocument format) of what has just been accepted and amended. This is a concrete example of how we can improve, enrich and develop these solutions at legislative level, in the debate in the specialty. In a simple and concrete way, focussed on the issue of transparency of accession contracts.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u176	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u177	I'm done now, Mr. President. This is an objective and concrete advance, without prejudice to the wider debate that we will be able to make. But for now, it can and must be implemented with this advance and with these proposals. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u178	For an intervention, Mrs Marcia Passos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u179	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We are talking about general contractual clauses and the so-called « accession contracts ». It is always time to defend the consumer from obscure clauses which are imperceptible to the citizen and which have not been subject to any prior negotiation with a view to reaching a will agreement. Clauses which, therefore, are all less the expression of pure contractual freedom.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u180	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u181	It is always time to make the contracts before a clearer, more objective and more enlightening consumer. The less lowercase letters, the better, the less incomprehensible expressions for those who do not have or have any technical knowledge, the better. But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is also time to tell the Government that the European Union Directive of 27 November 2019 already exists nearly a year ago. It is not enough to legislate more and more prohibitions when, in practice, there are no serious consequences for those who fail to fulfil their obligations.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u182	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u183	That is why this directive has emerged, in order to force the various countries to impose sanctions on those who do not comply, sanctions which must take into account, in particular, the nature and seriousness of the infringement. The directive also requires a better definition of some notions, such as the concept of product, functionality, digital content, a realisation of what is meant by « online market ». With regard to the right of repentance, Mr. Members, the directive requires, for some situations, that we pass from 14 days to 30 days, such as when the consumer is visited, without asking for it, by a professional, authentically surprised. The directive has clear objectives. They are the modernisation of the legal framework, the increase in transparency, the strengthening of consumer rights, either through compensation or through the strengthening of penalties, particularly with regard to online transactions. As you can see, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, much more needs to be done than to set minimum sizes for the letter in the accession contracts. [[Protests by PCP MP Bruno Dias.]] And not only is that necessary as you do not realize that the government is waiting. One year, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen! The directive has almost a year and no initiative has been taken by the Government.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u184	Forget it! [[Protests from PS deputy Ricardo Leon.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u185	If the pandemic serves to justify some delays, here is exactly the opposite. The fruit of the pandemic is known to increase online sales, that is, it is known that more and more consumers need protection in these transactions. That's why, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not only time to increase consumer legal certainty. Or is consumer law not a priority for this government? Oh, my God! [[Congratulations from the PSD and CDS-PP Member João Gonçalves Pereira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u186	Mr João Gonçalves Pereira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u187	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are discussing transparency in accession contracts and I would like to congratulate the Greens and the Left Block on bringing these initiatives to debate, because it seems to be a matter of detail but it is not. It is a very important matter. We have contractual clauses that are understandable to the consumer not only enable greater clarification of the consumer as well as contractual transparency, as is clear. We are often faced with extensive and very complex contracts, which we sign without real awareness of what we are signing. Because we have this awareness, in a relationship that is often unequal between consumers and large companies, when we sign such contracts, this is something that must be guarded. Therefore, on the issue of the size of the letter of contract clauses, as is clear, the smallest letters should have a larger dimension. But we should consider something that is a little further and the CDS will have an initiative in this area, which goes through the following: the existence of a kind of summary, a summary of the most important clauses. All these areas — energy, banking, insurance — have regulators and have a summary of the most relevant information for the consumer is something positive and will surely reduce much of the litigation that exists. We are fully aware of the importance of this matter and therefore welcome these initiatives and we will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u188	Mr André Ventura has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u189	Mr President, the arrival begins by welcoming the initiatives of the Greens and the Left Block on this subject, with two different dimensions. One first, with four reflections that need to be done. It must be understood that the exclusive nature of the letter is not a single problem of general contractual clauses. Areas such as advertising, for example, would require legislative equality in this area too. But the project needed to be further away, such as in sanctions. What happens to a contract that violates that rule? Is she null, excluded or void? Because it will vary greatly in terms of impact, in particular for the applicant who can see himself thus deprived of the consequence that would be to maintain the contract valid. It was important that it be clarified, in terms of excluded clauses or null clauses, what would be the generic effect of this situation. Finally, in relation to these same clauses and to the effect that they may have, we continue with another problem in the Portuguese legal order, which is this: consumers often win a trial in court, with a certain clause, in front of a given company, but it only applies to that company and to that clause. Another has an exactly equal clause two days later and there is no effect. This would not only deserve this initiative but an initiative that could create some generic regulatory effect and that would allow, when there is a judicial decision to cancel or declare null and void a completely abusive clause, it could have a generic effect, so that we do not have to go on a case-by-case basis, the company, action action. Finally, and I shall conclude, Mr President, I just wanted to say that the Socialist Party has not yet taken any initiative to effectively implement such an important issue for consumers and continues to justify the pandemic as a useful and necessary effect in order not to do anything at all.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u190	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u191	Mrs Isabel Pires has the floor now for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u192	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I would just like to highlight three points that seem relevant to us in this debate. I believe that in this House we all realize that there is a need, in certain urgent cases, to revisit the legislation that contains the issue of general contractual clauses, above all for consumer protection and for an unequal relationship. With regard to new challenges to online contracts, I would like to say that it is an important issue and, from this point of view, it seems to us that this Parliament has a duty to follow up on these legislative proposals in the Commission. On the other hand, the issue of null clauses and of applying to other contracts which have similar clauses is, exactly, one of the proposals in the draft law of the Left Block, because it seems to us that, in addition to helping to reduce the litigation that exists, it helps, of course, all consumers, until we know that these contracts, regardless of the sectors of activity to which they refer, have equal clauses and does not make any sense that each consumer, each person individually, is to enter into courts with such processes, when we can, for clauses that are equal or similar, enforce exactly the same decision that was taken in court. Finally, I want to say that, considering the interventions made in this House, the only thing we can conclude is that we have a way to do at the level of the specialty, but obviously we are not making excuses to delay this process. We are talking about matters that have been discussed for a long time, for many years, not only at European level but also in Portugal, in particular by consumer protection associations. There are a number of opinions that already point out all the ways in which legislation can be deepened and, therefore, what we call for is that there is no excuse for delaying the process, which is easy to do and has a very large impact on the lives of all citizens. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u193	Mrs. Members, there are still several parties that have time to intervene. I wonder if anyone else wants to intervene or if we can move on to the closing phase. [[Pause.]] No one else wants to intervene, so we will turn to the end of the debate. To that end, I give the floor to Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Greens.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u194	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We conclude that we all seem to agree on the opportunity of this Green initiative and on the need to review the general contractual clauses. In fact, this matter came to be the subject of a petition in 2013, requesting the definition of rules on the size of the letter and spacing between the lines in the contracts—that is, the very subject on which this Green legislative initiative is concerned—and in this discussion in plenary all parliamentary groups have said to follow the concerns expressed in the petition, which has been, in a certain way, reaffirmed here, which we are pleased to note. It is true that there are already mechanisms in Portuguese legislation that seek to safeguard several aspects related to accession contracts, from then on, the Legal Regime of General Contracts, which has played a very important role here, but also the Consumer Defense Act and even the Legal Regime of Insurance Contracts. But still, what reality has shown us is that beyond these standards are not scrupulously met and can even transport some subjectivity, giving the margin for different interpretations, we continue to have accession contracts with information drawn up in letters of small size and almost impossible to read. Now, these situations happen only because, in fact, there is a gap in the law and it is this gap that the Greens want to fill with this legislative initiative. Finally, with regard to what has been said about the sanctions regime, I would like to point out that it is provided for in the Legal Regime of General Contracts and therefore I do not understand very well, but we are open to, as a specialist, to accept the best solutions. In addition, I would also like to express all the Greens' willingness here to welcome all the contributions that may be made in the field of specialty, including such online contracts, with the sanctions regime, if there are problems there. Therefore, we are open to seeking solutions that best respond to transparency in these contracts, without meaning to delay their completion in time and without escaping from the essential, which is, of course, the strengthening of transparency in the accession contracts in the Legal Regime of General Contracts. [[Congrats from PCP MP Bruno Dias.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u195	Mrs. Members, we can now turn to the sixth item on the agenda, the assessment of the Report on the Progress of Equality between Women and Men at Work, Employment and Vocational Training — 2019. This debate will be opened by the intervention of Mr. Under-Secretary of State, Labour and Vocational Training Miguel Cabrite. Please, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u196	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The promotion of equality between men and women, including the decisive dimension of equality in the labour market, is one of the fundamental tasks of the State provided for in the Constitution. in this context, it establishes the law, since 2001, which is for the Government to submit an annual report on progress in this area and is this duty and expression of the priority of the equality issues that we are fulfilling today. The report integrates the contributions of various government bodies and areas that develop relevant activity in promoting equality. To all these bodies and, in particular, to the Commission on Equality at Work and Employment, a word of appreciation. The report under discussion today, on 2019, reiterates a conclusion, I think inescapable in the long run for equality. The very significant progress made over the years continues to coexist with still significant asymmetries between men and women. In education and training there are still gender-marked choices and consequences in phenomena of professional segregation in some areas. Only 35% of young students take vocational courses, compared to more than 48% of young people. In contrast, however, in higher education the participation of women is now majority, having reached, according to data from the DGEC (Directorate General of Education and Science Statistics), the highest level of ever, and it is also the women who participate most in learning on the lifeline. In the labour market, Portugal is one of the countries of Europe with the greatest full-time participation of women, the greatest guarantee of autonomy for each individual and therefore for each woman, but still the part-time and underemployment are greater among women. There are still significant wage disparities, despite the trend towards decline in recent years. Women are most represented in the segments with low wages and, of course, in the national minimum wage. On the contrary, they are underrepresented in the highest and leading salaries, despite also the progress of the top corporate bodies in the last two years, in which the participation of women in the administration of the largest listed companies in the stock market increased from 16, 2 % in 2017 to 24, 6 % in 2019. Societhrias also remain in the reconciliation between paid work and the family sphere, despite the advances in access to family support equipment, with Portugal among the European countries that first exceeded the Barcelona targets. And there is a way to make, too, despite progress, from the very beginning in kinship. In the last decade, the proportion of men who enjoyed the optional parental leave increased from 45 % to 68 %, and increased from 9 % to almost 40 % to membership of shared parental leave. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, for all these reasons the way we are going is still incomplete. The indicators that this report incorporates have a lot of this recent path, but have still gone too far, reflecting a culture of built-in and structural inequality that we have to continue to debate, inequality that is also evident at each step in situations of difficulty as the current time of pandemic. Once again this crisis is far from symmetrical, also from a gender perspective, also from the point of view of inequality between men and women. It was the women most affected by the first impact — almost 60% of the increase in unemployment since March is explained by the increase in unemployment among women. They are the women most exposed to conciliation difficulties that can be raised, for example, by telework. And let us remember the profile of the beneficiaries of extraordinary family support: almost 80 % are women. That is why the instruments created in recent years, such as the Law on the Promotion of Pay Equality, the Law on Balanced Representation in Management Charges, Program 3 in Line ( Programme for the Conciliation of Professional Life, Staff and Family Life 2018 - 2019 ), the constant deepening of the logic of sharing parental leave, are so important. For this reason, the efforts that have been made in campaigns to promote equality, to increase awareness of discrimination and rights, to strengthen protection mechanisms, for example, in the ISCED (Commission on Equality in Labour and Employment), which today has strengthened powers, are so important. That is why it is so important for us to be able to prevent the reproduction of existing and emerging sources of inequality in the future, such as those I mentioned about telework and, in general, in the so-called 'working future', in the digital economy and also in the professions of access to this type of economic activity. That is why, indeed, these matters, the issues of equality, will be regulated and will also be present in the Green Paper on the Future of Work being prepared. We must not forget that in all areas of the labour market and also in the future of work there are inequalities that have to be treated and that they will not cease to be part of the reflection that the Government is making, in particular in the Green Paper on the Future of Work. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u197	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of State, also for punctuality in the use of time. For an intervention, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u198	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Equality between women and men is a battle that has centuries and which the Liberal Initiative considers to be central. We do not confuse equality with equality, as the parties on the left do, which certainly would like all people, regardless of gender, to be equal, to think the same and to be happy in the same way. For us, what matters really is that there is a real equal opportunity: the opportunity to study, the opportunity to undertake or access jobs, the opportunity to go up to career for merit. The distinction between these two concepts of equality is simple. The first, which socialists defend, represents an imposition of the State; the second, defended by the Liberal Initiative, represents a choice, free and voluntary, of each individual being whatever he wants, to do whatever he wants, to carry out as he wants, regardless of whether he is a man or a woman. This report brings us a shocking number: wage disparity in Portugal corresponds to a loss of 58 working days paid for women. This number does not mean, by itself and necessarily, that there is inequality of opportunity for women, but it is revealing choices that women make and, it is our conviction, do not do them freely or have the same options. Therefore, there should be no doubt that the Liberal Initiative recognizes that this inequality exists. We recognize that the girls and the boys in this country are educated in different ways and encouraged to seek different activities. We recognize that mothers and working parents are not treated in the same way in reconciling employment with their families and that they are not required to do the same, with prejudice to women's careers. The fight for equal opportunities between men and women is not won and the liberals here are to help stop it.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u199	To help you become more and more wild!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u200	For an intervention, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u201	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries : Regarding the Report on the Progress of Equality between Women and Men at Work, Employment and Vocational Training — 2019, we cannot fail to note something that is unmistakable evidence: gender issues still mark our society today and, in particular, in the report under consideration, also the formative choices of our young people. The report notes that in scientific-humanistic courses in general there is a predominant frequency of students, rather than professional courses, where male is predominant. Based on this phenomenon will naturally be issues of vocational interest, but also factors such as stereotypes, culture, standards and social expectations. It is irrefutable that the path to equality has been made, but as a society we continue to convey, more or less clear, messages about gender choices and opportunities. These messages, often unconscious and culturally rooted, demonstrate that much more needs to be done to combat gender inequality. Data reveal higher education rates in women, particularly at the level of higher education, higher participation rates in life-long activities, lower retention and withdrawal rates at all levels of education and, however, we continue to witness unequal rates of employment among genders. We also continue to attend lower rates in relation to participation in public and political life. In 2019, it is seen that for example there were more than 31, 3,000 women than men in unemployment, and this is a cross-sectional situation for all age groups in the female population. The female employment rate has grown less than the male, which continues to be higher in all regions of the country. Although women have higher levels of education, the feminization rate continues to lack a correspondence with higher levels of vocational qualification and also employability. The distribution of employment by sector of economic activity continues to show this gender-based segregation of the labour market. Although women are under-represented in public administrations and constitute more than half of the most qualified workers, the feminization rate in the group of representatives of legislative power and executive bodies remains still low. Although there are positive steps on this path, inequalities and gap remain still very present. Women continue to receive less € 148, €90 per month than men, with the wage gap between men and women increasing as the level of professional qualification increases. Also in the context of the socio-economic crisis that we are experiencing these inequalities are accentuated, worsening levels of impoverishment in women and increasing the gap in lack of opportunities, in a vicious circle that drags generations. We want to build a society that demonstrates to our children that being a man or a woman will not bring them any obstacles or limitations in achieving their aspirations or access to opportunities, a fair society that, for equivalent functions and competences, guarantees equal remuneration and careers, which ensures that none of our children, boy or girl, are judged to be superior or inferior in relation to each other and that, in the parents and in the country, has the reference of a truly just and equal society. And to conclude, Mr Secretary of State, that the State does not cease to contribute to the construction of a more just and equal path in terms of gender equality, so that in fact the starting point does not continue to be markedly unequal. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u202	You have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Sandra Cunha.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u203	Mr President, Mr Under-Secretary of State, Labour and Vocational Training, Mr. and Mrs Deputies: The Report on the Progress of Equality between Women and Men at Work, Employment and Vocational Training is undoubtedly an important tool to monitor the progress on inequalities that are structural in our country. But what the 2019 report tells us is that gender inequality trends have not changed. Women are mostly, yes, in higher education, and they are the majority of graduates, but they continue to be minority in the professions with higher qualifications. They are, in fact, non-existent in the directions of higher education institutions. In Portugal, there is only one rector. Wage disparity remains above 16 %. If we consider all employees of all companies, women earn less € 149 per month of basic remuneration than men. In terms of total gain, women receive less than 225 € per month, i.e. less than 2700 € per year. There is still an increase in wage disparity as the levels of vocational qualification and education increase. In higher education workers, wage inequality shoots at almost 30 %, and in reform at an even more fragile time it shoots at almost 40 %. Segregation in the labour market, depending on gender, remains. Women represent more than 80% of employment in human health activities and social support, more than 77% in education and are the majority in housing, catering and similar activities and in other activities and services. In the Public Administration, the rate of feminization in nurses is 83, 3% and in higher health technicians is 86, 5%. None of this is new, but what is not new is that economic crises deepen social inequalities and gender inequalities. And the devastating crisis we are experiencing at this time creates even more pressure on women, because it is women that are the majority of professionals in front of the fight against the health crisis in health, because it is women who provide care services, social support, but also undifferentiated services, restoration and cleaning. They are the ones that depend most on public transportation crowded with people and that accumulate work outside the house with work inside the house and care with children. They are the most precarious and vulnerable to poverty and social exclusion, and they are also the most vulnerable to dismissals, because they are the most precarious. They earn less and are more affected by loss of income and work. For all this, Mr Secretary of State, the fight against gender inequalities, especially in this context of crisis, which we know is going to worsen further, can only be done with measures that effectively protect work and wages and prohibit layoffs, protect the precarious and precarious ones, reverse the backlogs printed in the labour code by the troika, to the blight of the last financial crisis, which look at those who have lost their income and ensure that they are not completely deprived, that they guarantee access to health, school, public transport. This fight must go through measures that do not add crisis to the crisis and that do not deepen the existing inequalities. This is so obvious that it is difficult to understand that the government responsible for drawing up this report is the same government responsible for a State budget that ignores all this. Gender inequalities at work will not be resolved with campaigns, Mr. Under-Secretary of State, Labour and Vocational Training, they are resolved with effective measures, with structural measures to defend work and wage. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u204	Mrs Lina Lopes now has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u205	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Under-Secretary of State, Labour and Vocational Training, The PSD welcomes the return to this Chamber with appreciation of the Report on the Progress of Equality between Women and Men at Work, Employment and Vocational Training, under Law No 10/2001. I make this statement because in 2018 the report was not assessed in this plenary. This report integrates the contribution of different State bodies active in promoting equality between women and men. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me a note of history on this matter. It was by the PSD, in 1980, during the VI Constitutional Government, led by Francisco Sá Carneiro, that the creation was materialized and the Commission for Equality in Labour and Employment came into operation, the ISCED, of which Mr. Secretary of State spoke. [[PSD applause.]] He had as its President José Pimentel, the then Director General of Labour. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, ISCED is a commission with a unique constitution at European level, with excellent performance in the fight for equality and non-discrimination between women and men at work, employment and vocational training, protected by the Ministry of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security. ISCED is a tripartite committee, where they sit at the same government table, employers' and trade unions' confederations. Initially, it only covered the private sector, like today's social consultation, but the ISCED went further and extended its field of activity to the Public Administration, which seems very positive to us. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is undeniable that there has been progress in the 46 years of democracy, but the data presented to us in this report confirm that there is still a long way to go towards achieving equality between women and men. Wage inequality persists and resists. More recent Eurostat data for 2018 tell us that wage inequality in Portugal is 16, 2 % above the European Union average, which is 14, 8 %. Women in Portugal, as has already been said, earn on average less 225, 5 € than men. Therefore, women would have to work more than 58 days than men would earn the same value as men. On the other hand, at all levels of education, women have a higher education rate than men. For example, in higher education, the enrolment rate of women is 10% above that of men. Unfortunately, this reality is not reflected in the labour market, because wage disparity is accentuated by increasing professional qualification. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, women, as has already been said, are now in the front line of the pandemic: 92% of health assistants are women, 82% of nurses are women, 55% of doctors are women, 80% of caregivers are women and dependents are women. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, there is no gender-neutral crisis, and we know that it reproduces and tends to increase the inequalities between women and men, from the different effects of employment and unemployment, telework and conciliation difficulties. Telework brought work inside the house, making it even more difficult to reconcile work with family life. In addition, many families have no longer had the fundamental support of their grandparents, now that they are unfortunately a risk group of the CVID-19. We should also be concerned about violence against women, whether it is domestic violence, whether it is moral and sexual harassment in the workplace. Another significant fact is the impact this crisis has on immigrant communities, particularly on women who belong to them, and on single-parent families, 85% of whom are women. In the areas of services, for example, in restaurants and hotels, two thirds of the work is provided by women. In addition to this, many women work on their own, the green receipt, and three quarters of them do not employ other workers, working alone (precautionary is very high). Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: More than discussing the 2019 issues, which obviously concern us and question us, we must focus all our efforts on designing and implementing strategies that enable us to face the new challenges effectively, which mitigate the potential impacts on inequalities and promote a more just, inclusive and more resilient society. They therefore count on the PSD, which will be in the first line against the inequality of opportunities between women and men. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u206	You now have the floor, for an intervention, Mrs Mariana Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u207	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: When I read the Report on the Progress of Equality between Women and Men at Work, Employment and Vocational Training — 2019, I cannot help but express my disappointment at the fact that we are still indispensable in 2020 to discuss policies that need to be developed and implemented for equality to take place in our society. Equal opportunities between men and women in the labour market and the elimination of wage inequalities are universal principles whose application is not yet effective. We can read in the report: « Indeed, as noted in this report, the most recent data reported in 2018 indicate that the average wages of women are lower than 14 %, 4 % of men. This means that the wage disparity in Portugal corresponds to a loss of 58 paid working days for women.' Women continue to be subject to greater work insecurity and to the risks of unemployment, and are also victims of equal pay inequalities. These phenomena are not dissociable from maternity, which the working world often takes as an "enemy" of permanent availability for work and thus a disadvantage added to being a female worker. The phenomena of gender inequality and discrimination are against social development, progress and the fight for equality. This reality is not based, in the Greens' perspective, on an inadequate or insufficient legal framework to generate the desired equality, but rather on a permissiveness and a lack of awareness and supervision that is conducive to widespread abuse and inequality. Wage discrimination figures show that the same wage principle for work of equal value is far from effective and widely applied. According to the most recent information available in the report on the pay gap between men and women, it remained in 2018 with regard to basic remuneration, despite a reduction of this difference from 149, 5 € / month to 148, 9 € / month, so women take less than men. Moreover, the multiple forms of precarious work and also the violation of parental rights, the worsening of the difficulties of articulation between family and professional life, among many other issues, are added. The Greens believe that these reports are important for us to understand how far we are in relation to discrimination in the workplace and others, and it is therefore necessary that these surveys of reality should be used to raise awareness among the actors involved, including employers, but also citizens in general, as well as it is essential to strengthen the means of supervision so that they can function as an example of deterrence of discriminatory practices. [[PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u208	You have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Elza Pais.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u209	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. and Mrs Deputies : This Report on the Progress of Equality reports, as has already been said, in 2019 and portrays the advances that have been made before this pandemic, which inevitably nude the structural inequalities we were fighting. The year 2019 was a year of significant progress, where the end of austerity policies resulted in an increase in qualifications, the decrease in unemployment rate, the increase in employability, the strengthening of active employment policies and conciliation measures and more social family support equipment. However, we know that there are structural inequalities that persist, and Mr. Under-Secretary of State, Labour and Vocational Training has already said so. Women continue to be discriminated against at work and at work, without adjustment of correspondence, and this is the focus between skills, qualifications, functions and wages taken. Let's look at some data. Significant progress has been made in qualifications, with more than 4000 graduates and more female graduates than men. However, although they have more qualifications and the increase in education decreases the differential in employability, women have a employment rate of 10 percentage points lower than men. In 2019, there was also a sharp drop in unemployment of 7, 2 %. However, this decline was more pronounced among men, with more than 31 000 women than men in unemployment. In other words, there are qualifications that do not translate into more employment and, although there are fewer unemployed, there are more unemployed women than men. I would also like to highlight the positive decline in young unemployment, with a decline of 7, 3 thousand people in 2019, a bet from the socialist governments. I leave a note on wage inequalities, this chaga that continues to be a reality that shames us and that very little dignifies just and democratic societies, a reality that is not only national, but European and world-wide: on average, women earn less €225 per month than men, when they do work of equal value. These wage inequalities increase unfairly as they increase their qualifications, which is obviously little stimulating for the acquisition of knowledge. The law of wage inequalities, 2018, is already fighting, although very slightly, these inequalities. So the road is here and I cannot fail to welcome, at this moment, this innovative law, which will combat this scourge of wage inequalities, which shame any democratic country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Another outstanding situation that makes women more vulnerable in crisis situations, as has now happened, is that these are dominant in more exposed sectors, which were highly affected by the crisis, such as health, social support, as has already been said, that of education, housing, restoration and cleaning. But they are also dominant in unpaid work, in lost jobs, with lower wages, with more part-time underemployment and with more precarious links, thus increasing their vulnerability and the risk of poverty. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the agenda for equality in the labour market is, and has always been, a priority of socialist governments. I also refer to the policies for reconciling family, professional and personal life and strengthening equipment to families, such as the innovative programme that Mr. Under-Secretary of State, Labour and Vocational Training has already spoken, Programme 3 in Line, which promotes, at the level of social consultation, a comprehensive strategic agreement, where the themes of telework are also integrated. I also refer to the recent amendments of 2019 to the Labour Code, which reinforce the mandatory days of parental leave, as strengthening the conciliation strategies, and we cannot fail to speak of another innovative socialist law, which was the strengthening of the parity threshold in companies, which greatly increases the decision-making capacity of women in the leaderships, which has increased 8 % in the last year, as the Secretary of State has already mentioned. Finally, ladies and gentlemen. Members, as a projection for the future, despite the achievements that Portugal has been making in the area of equality and non-discrimination, which have been many, we are today faced with unprecedented threats to the rights conquered, if there is no effective and comprehensive action that prevents setbacks. The response to the crisis goes through strategic recognition of latent opportunities in adversity and positive measures to combat structural inequalities. This is what will happen when this State Budget for 2021, this Left Budget, begins to be implemented. This is a challenge we have to win. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u210	You have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Alma Rivera of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u211	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by greeting the workers of the Portuguese Lauak — Aeronautical Industry, who, with their struggle, achieved the reintegration of eight workers, who were mothers recently, and who, in the enjoyment of parental rights, were included in the collective dismissal. The Report on the Progress of Equality between Women and Men at Work, Employment and Vocational Training confirms what the reality has long cried out: between equality in law and life, in the concrete of day-to-day life, goes a huge step that demonstrates how much it is necessary to fight for equality and social justice, even if progress has been made in some areas. But above all, it demonstrates what we have been very alert to: the organization of work that we have, in fact, disorganization, the law of the jungle, a deeply unbalanced relationship between employers and workers, inevitably results in a more fragile situation for women. This is because, as always, the labour discrimination of women enables employers to save, push down working conditions and wages, and thus maximize profits. The 2019 data show a situation of still strong inequality in professional life. Although women have a higher education rate at all levels of education, particularly in higher education, this does not correspond to the levels of qualification and professional valorization. Wage disparity continues to be aberrant: at the level of gain, women take less €225 per month than men, a wage difference that is accentuated as the level of vocational qualification and the level of education increases. Unemployment hits women more strongly and continues to be on women who most affect work precariousness, the deregulation of working hours, work on Saturday and Sunday, linked to concentration in the tertiary sector, career degradation and a growing difficulty in compatibility work with personal and family life. Thus, it is also women who see their labour and social rights most violated. Data from complaints to ISCED and ACT, even if not mirroring the whole reality, show that refusals to grant flexible hours to workers with children up to 12 years of age with disabilities or chronic illness; dismissals of pregnant workers or with young children; dismissals and discriminations to workers, with regard to the enjoyment of parental leave and breastfeeding; discrimination in access to employment, depending on sex; the question, more or less veiled, about getting pregnant. There is a long way to go and it is done in the daily struggle for better working conditions and living conditions that allow more recognition and overcoming stereotypes and discrimination. It is a struggle for women, but it is also a struggle for democracy, which benefits everyone and for which men are also called. Yes, ladies and gentlemen. Members, a question of political options. As the report states, women have to work more than 58 days to get the same as men, but the one who appropriates this difference is not the male workers, it is the patronage. This quickly shows that there is no fight for equality that, on the one hand, does not benefit men too, improving for all working conditions, and that on the other hand, it does not go through the strengthening of rights and the increase in wages, the regulation of schedules, the repeal of amendments to the Labour Code. There is no fight for equality that does not go through the fight against exploitation either. When, in this House, the proposals for the valorization of health and care professionals have been dropped, it is known that about 84% of these workers are women, and the same logic applies to education and public servants in general. When the public sector should be the example, instead, it has high levels of precariousness and insecurity, the women being the main affected. When the implementation of a free network of day care centres and free public homes is hampered, equality is being achieved, because it is in women who will take care. When you talk about telework, who will be the first to stay at home and concentrate even more on domestic work? Oh, my God! And it's not worth saying that telework is dangerous for women and then you want to spend a room of the Public Administration for telework. If the government allows Aviproto workers to lose rights or if the collective dismissal of 116 aircraft cleaning workers advances, it is clear that the majority of those affected will be women. We must never forget that, rather than claiming equality in these debates, since beautiful words are of no benefit to women, what is done with regard to their rights.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u212	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u213	I shall conclude, Mr President. They need to change their options for wages, including national minimum wage, time regulation and recruitment. This is a struggle for which women and all workers know they can count on the CFP. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u214	Mr Ventura, from arrive, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u215	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : 16 and 18 — these are the numbers which in the European Union make the difference between men and women, so still far below what we have in Portugal. As has been said here by all, there have been more than 50 days of wage difference, which is more than 16 % of the European Union. And there's an even more worrying number: it's only eight women — it's not 8 %, it's eight women! — in Portugal they have executive positions in listed companies. Just eight! This number, yes, should be ashamed. Therefore, Mr. Under-Secretary of State, Labour and Vocational Training, you may come to present the reports you understand, but this is the truth! The Council of Europe said that this year in Portugal there has been an increase in inequalities and that Portugal has failed to fight for the reduction of disparities. This was said in June 2020 by the Council of Europe. The Socialist Party has been 14 in the Government of the Republic for the past 20 years. In the last 20 years, it's been 14! How can Mr. Secretary of State come to this House and say that we are fighting wage inequalities? Oh, my God! More, over the past five years, in relation to these inequalities, with a Budget supported by the Communist Party and the Block of Left, they have never responded to this problem. Therefore, Mr Secretary of State, although he is here today, to explain to us what this Budget will bring back to this fight.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u216	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u217	Mr President, let me finish by saying the following: while in Portugal something is announced, there is another one out there. in this same Council of Europe, Portugal acknowledged that it still had a lot to do and recognized that there have even been elements which have returned in recent years. How is it that today, here, says exactly the opposite? I am glad that you are here today, Mr Secretary of State, to explain to us what you are planning to do in the coming months to fight inequality between men and women in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u218	Mr João Almeida, from the CDS-PP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u219	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, Mr. Members: The discussion of this report is an important moment to reaffirm the commitment to equality between women and men. The CDS, reaffirming this commitment, of course, does not fail to notice a difference in the approach that has been made by the socialist governments in relation to what we believe to be much more effective measures. It is the Socialist Party that has always opted for negative measures and for tax measures. I heard the Secretary of State say: "It is excellent that there has been a change in women's participation in the board of directors of listed companies". Well, it's due to a legal obligation. If we find that, from a social point of view, there is no effective recognition of the role of women in society and companies that deserve this recognition and if we are content solely with what happens in the course of legal imposition, I ask: besides this legal imposition and obligation, how many more women had access to the board of directors? None, Mr. Secretary of State. I repeat: none! So this is just an idea that it is the State that will unilaterally improve this situation. It can be achieved in business boards, but it cannot then, on the basis of which women who have the most difficulty obviously cannot, because there is a woman in the administration, have greater equality with men. We understand that much more basic measures are needed, measures that have to do with the reconciliation between work and, in particular, in Portugal, family life. Now we have seen, on the issue of pandemic: when you used telework, when you used one of the family elements to stay with your children at home, it was overwhelmingly a majority of the option for women to stay at home and for men to continue working. It is in this kind of choice and in this kind of mindset that we have to work and, for that, positive measures need to be taken. You really like to compare the current reality with the reality of the PSD government / CDS. I wanted to make this comparison and ask why the awareness actions promoted towards this greater equality between women and men in the context of work were in 2015 in the last year of the PSD / CDS government, 2392, and in 2019, 540, i.e. less than one room. Why? Oh, my God! Why were the awareness-raising actions, during the government with a budget approved by the PS, the PCP, the Left Block and the Greens, less than a quarter of those that existed in the time of the PSD government / CDS? But we can also talk about the number of people. Why did the PSD and CDS participate in awareness-raising actions 92,217 in 2015 and when the Budgets were approved by PS, PCP, the Left Block and the Greens in 2019 only 20,353 people, i.e. about a fifth? It is in this fine mesh that you can actually see the cuts that are made in the Left Budgets, which are essentially reflected in the basis of equality.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u220	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u221	The government has completely forgotten to continue to work for that equality to exist and be increased.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u222	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have thus concluded our debates on today's agenda. We say goodbye to the members of the Government present and we will move on to the voting period. We have registered 223 ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. So we have quorum. First, we have to vote on the Draft Vote No 347 / XIV / 2. a ( presented by the CDS-PP ) — regretting the death of Augusto Cymbron. I ask Secretary Sofia Araújo to proceed with the reading of this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u223	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « He died last October 12 Augusto Botelho de Sousa Cymbron, born in Lisbon in 1944, married, father of four children and grandfather of seven grandchildren. He graduated from high school in Ponta Delgada and after military service became available in 1970, following business life where he had a store of English furniture and garden. In 1993 he entered the University of Azores, where he graduated from the course of history. In 1995 he returned to Society A. C. Cymbron, Ld. the, and in 2000 is appointed manager of A.C.C. and other companies of the family group. In March 2006 he was elected President of ANAREC ( National Association of Fuel Resellers ). He joined the CDS-PP in 1975 and was one of the founders of the party in the Azores, and he also served as President of the Regional Council and National Councillor of the CDS. He was also the list leader of the CDS-PP by the electoral circle outside Europe, in the 2011 legislative elections. In 2012 the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of the Azores assigns to it the Autonomous Insignia of Industrial Merit, Commercial and Agricultural. Dr. Augusto Cymbron was a human being of character and verticality, a man of causes, a true and genuine Christian democracy and a reference to the entire Azorian region. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, decided to demonstrate its deep regret and dismay at the death of Augusto Cymbron and to present to the family its heartfelt condolences. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u224	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] I ask Secretary Duarte Pacheco to proceed with the reading of the Draft Vote No 348 / XIV / 2. a ( presented by the CDS-PP ) — regretting the death of Augusto Boucinha.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u225	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the draft vote is of the following content: « He died on 13 October August Augusto Torres Boucinha, born in the parish of Aguçadoura, municipality of Póvoa de Varzim, on 4 February 1946. Graduated in Economics, he served as a military captain at the time Sá da Bandeira, who later entered the state official in the customs area. Among other things, he served as mayor of the City Council of the Povoa of Varzim between 1993 and 1997 and as President of the Assembly of Freguesia of his homeland, Agúçadoura. Augusto Boucinha was also a member of the CDS at the Assembly of the Republic by the electoral circle of the port in the VII legislature. He was still a partner and partner of Varzim Sport Club, and has often been his representative to the Portuguese Football Federation. Man of strong causes and convictions, never stopped defending and fighting for what he believed in, especially when the matter was related to his homeland, the Póvoa of Varzim. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, decided to demonstrate its deep regret and dismay at the death of Augusto Boucinha and to present to the family its heartfelt condolences. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u226	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We still have the Vote Project No. 349 / XIV / 2. a ( presented by the PSD ) — I regret the death of Fernando Alberto Ribeiro da Silva, who invited Mr Adam Silva to read.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u227	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the draft vote shall be as follows: « It is in local communities that democracy best develops its path to consolidate the scope that makes its final vitality. in this context, many of those who contributed to build democratic Portugal today. Here we recall the memory of Fernando Alberto Ribeiro da Silva, who died on the 8th day of the current month of October and who, with a long journey of civic and political life, travelled with unusual merit this way. Democrat of conviction and vimaranense of heart, Dr. Fernando Alberto was an active member in the Braga district movement in support of General Humberto Delgado. Already in democracy, he was founder of PPP / PSD in Guimarães and in the district. He was a member of the Constituent Assembly, President of the PSD political committees, the Guimaranes and Braga district council, also occupying in the governments led by Francisco Sá Carneiro and Aníbal Cavaco Silva, the role of Civil Governor of the Braga District. Discreet and without ambition of protagonists, friend of Eurico de Melo and Aníbal Cavaco Silva, was decisive in his election as President of the PSD in 1985. He never, however, cultivated apethents by any kind of power of national political governance, despite the numerous invitations that were addressed to him in this regard, preferring to remain at the service of Guimarães and his region. A public prosecutor's servant without ever serving her. Of irreprehensible ethical posture, he fought for ideals and not for positions. It has always been an admirable example of power-absorbing. Unmistakably the merit and exemption of this service prevailed in a tribute that hundreds of people dispensed with it, from all political-party quadrants in the Braga district, when there he performed the functions of Civil Governor, a function in which he earned the respect and trust of all. Frontal man and deep convictions, political of enormous authenticity and character, Fernando Alberto Ribeiro da Silva was the subject of four honorific distinctions attributed by the presidents of the Mário Soares Republic, Cavaco Silva and Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa, which reveals the substantive and cross-sectional recognition of the merits assigned to him. This will, simply, be the tribute that Fernando Alberto Ribeiro da Silva's memory could not fail to deserve from the National Parliament. Meeting in plenary session, the Assembly of the Republic expresses its greatest regret to the family and friends of Dr. Fernando Alberto Ribeiro da Silva. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u228	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, following the votes that we have just adopted, we are going to keep a minute of silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] We will now vote for the Vote Project No. 352 / XIV / 2. a ( presented by the Committee on Culture and Communication and signed by PS Members ) — Condemnation for the destruction of anta in the Herdade do Vale de Moura and other archaeological heritage in the municipality of Évora. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We will generally vote on the Resolution Project No. 549 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government reassess the work of prolonging the outer sea of Porto de Leixões. [[We voted in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against the PS.]] This draft resolution is down to 6. the Commission. We are going to vote, in general, on draft resolution No 611 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Suspension of the procedure for the award of works of expansion of the port of leixões, including the extension of the outer sea. [[We voted in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against the PS.]] This draft resolution is down to 6. the Commission. We now vote, in general, on Resolution Project No. 616 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recommends that the Government ensure the application of all environmental impact reduction measures in works to extend the Leixions Seabreak and the new container terminal. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the PEN, the PEN, the CH, the IL and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against BE and abstentions by the PS and the Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues.]] This draft resolution is down to 6. the Commission. The general vote on draft resolution No 650 / XIV / 2 is hereby followed. a ( ENP) — Intensification and credibility of the environmental impact assessment of the works integrated in the maritime accessibility project to Porto de Leixões. [[We voted in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against the PS.]] This draft resolution is down to 6. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u229	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u230	What are you doing, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u231	Mr President, it is to announce to the House that on behalf of the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group we will present a statement of vote on these four draft resolutions.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u232	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u233	Mr President, it is to correct the direction of vote of the Left Block in draft resolution No 616 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ). We have given the indication of vote against, but our vote is 'abstention', and I would therefore like that to be recorded in the Minutes, even if we do not change the final outcome of the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u234	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 657 / XIV / 2. a (BE) — By regulating the cartel activity with a view to reducing the wear resulting from the activity and the guarantee of safety and health conditions at work. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and CDS-PP and IL abstentions.]] A request is followed, submitted by the NAP, requesting the discharge to the Committee on Agriculture and the Sea, without a 60-day vote of Bill No. 487 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN). Mr. João Oliveira, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u235	Mr. President, a similar application was submitted for Bill No. 537 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), so they can be voted together.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u236	That will be done, Mr President. We shall then vote on the requests submitted by the authors of the initiatives, asking the Committee on Agriculture and the Sea to be discharged without a 60-day vote of Bills No 487 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Approves the legal regime applicable to food donation for social solidarity purposes and measures to combat food waste and 537 / XIV / 2. a ( CFP ) — Consecrates measures to promote the flow of food goods from small agriculture and family farming and creates a simplified public regime for the acquisition and distribution of food goods from small and medium-sized national agriculture and livestock and family farming, combating food waste. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] These bills therefore go down to 7. the Commission. We now vote, in general, the Bill No. 544 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP) — National survey on food waste in Portugal. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PS, PSD, CDS-PP and CH.]] This bill goes down to 7. the Commission, for assessment in the specialty. We shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 638 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP) — Reversion of the privatisation of the CTT Posts of Portugal, SA. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP, CH and IL and votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected.]] We generally vote for Bill No. 517 / XIV / 2. a ( CFP ) — Establishs the recovery regime for public control of TTCs. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP, CH and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the NAP abstention.]] We now vote, in general, the Bill No. 520 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — Establishs the nationalisation regime for TTCs. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP, CH and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the NAP abstention.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 242 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government ensure a decisive participation of the State in the social capital of the CTT-Correios de Portugal, SA. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP, CH and IL were rejected, votes against BE and PAN, and abstentions against PCP, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira.]] The vote was followed by draft resolution No 572 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends to the Government a mobilising initiative for interinstitutional debate and wider public hearing on the implementation of the European Union Recovery Plan ( Next Generation EU ), the Partnership Agreement and the Strategic Plan of the CAP ( PEPAC) 2021 - 2027, within the framework of the consequences of the COVID-19. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, CDS-PP, PAN, IL and Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and Abstaining from BE, PCP, PEV, CH and MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We now vote on the Resolution Project No. 298 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Commitment to cooperation for the social and solidarity sector. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the CH, the IL and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and abstains from BE, the PCP, the PEV and the Non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We will generally vote for Bill No. 64 / XIV / 1. a ( CFP ) — Ensures effective compliance with working hours and reconciliation of work with family life and repeals adaptability and hourly bank mechanisms in group modalities and by collective regulation( 16 ). the amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February approving the Labour Code ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP, CH and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the NAP abstention.]] We shall proceed to the general vote on Bill No 65 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Ensures effective compliance with working hours and reconciliation of work with family life and repeals individual adaptability mechanisms( 16 ). the amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February approving the Labour Code ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from PAN and CH.]] The general vote of Bill No 533 / XIV / 2 is followed. a ( BE ) — eliminates the group time bank and by group agreement, individual and group adaptability and strengthens the monitoring of working hours( 16 ). the amendment to the Labour Code ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP, CH and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the NAP abstention.]] The general vote of Bill No 534 / XIV / 2 is followed. a ( PAN) — Approves measures guaranteeing the reconciliation of work with family life and greater professional stability for the purpose of the sixth amendment to the Labour Code, the tenth amendment to the General Law on Public Works and the sixth amendment to Decree-Law No 91 / 2009 of 9 April 2009. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstention of CH.]] We generally vote for Bill No. 539 / XIV / 2. a ( IL) — Restores the individual time bank( 16 ). the amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February which approved the Labour Code ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD, BE, PCP, ENP, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected, votes against the CDS-PP and IL and abstention from the NAP.]] A request is followed, submitted by BE, requesting the discharge to the Health Commission, without a 30-day vote of Bill No 512 / XIV / 2. a ( BE).
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u237	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u238	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u239	Mr. President, requirements have been submitted in the same way with regard to Bill Nos 538 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) and 541 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), so they can be voted together.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u240	We shall then vote on the requests submitted by the respective authors of the initiatives, asking the Health Commission to be discharged without a 30-day vote of Bills No 512 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — Measures to recover the activity of medical boards of disability assessment, 538 / XIV / 2. a (NAP) — Ensures the effective response of medical boards' activity of assessment of disabilities and primary health care in epidemiological situations caused by COVID-19 and 541 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Transitional arrangements for issuing multi-purpose medical certificates of incapacity. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] These three bills are thus down to 9. the Commission, without a vote, for a period of 30 days. We now vote on the Resolution Project No. 321 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government comply with the Ombudsman's recommendations to eliminate significant delays in issuing multi-purpose medical certificates of incapacity. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the CH, the IL and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and abstains from BE, the PCP, the PEV and the Non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 600 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Conditions for successful introduction of 5G and consequently of the digital transition process. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the PAN and the PEN were rejected, votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP, the CH and the IL and abstentions from non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira.]] The vote was followed by draft resolution No 590 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — For a public and universal telecommunications service in Portugal : 5G, opportunity to change course. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP, PAN, CH and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, PEV and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and the non-registered MP Cristina Rodrigues.]] We now vote on the Resolution Project No 632 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Recommendations to the Government and ANACOM arising from the implementation of 5G networks particularly in low-density territories. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the PAN and the PEN were rejected, votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP, the CH and the IL and abstentions from non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira.]] The vote on draft resolution No 645 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — By a sector of public and universal telecommunications in Portugal. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP, CH and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, ENP and MP not included Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from PAN and non-registered MP Cristina Rodrigues.]] We now vote on the Resolution Project No. 649 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government adopt the procedures to ensure that the crime of ecocidal crime is enshrined in the list of crimes provided for in the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, PCP and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE, PAN and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the ENP, CH and IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u241	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u242	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u243	Mr President, it is to inform the Bureau that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will deliver a statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u244	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We now proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 396 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Strengthen transparency in accession contracts ( Alt. Decree-Law No 446 / 85 of 25 October ). [[The vote was taken in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the PS abstention.]] The bill goes down to 6. the Commission, for assessment in the specialty. We will generally vote for Bill No. 532 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ) — Strengthens transparency and the effects of the prohibition of general clauses on accession contracts ( 4 ). the amendment to the Legal Regime of General Contract Clauses). [[The vote was taken in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PS, CH and IL abstentions.]] Thus, the project goes down to 6. the Commission, for assessment in the specialty. We now vote on the Resolution Project No. 593 / XIV / 1. a ( IL) — For the immediate suspension of the extradition agreement with Hong Kong due to the end of its judicial independence with respect to China. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, PCP and ENP and votes against BE, CDS-PP, PAN, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected.]] We now proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 628 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Recommends to the Government the immediate suspension of the extradition agreement with Hong Kong and the adoption of other measures in response to the new National Security Act applicable in Hong Kong. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, PCP and ENP were rejected, votes against BE, PAN, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the CDS-PP abstention.]] We then vote on the Resolution Project No 629 / XIV / 2. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government condemn the repeated human rights violations committed by China and demand the end of repressive measures against religious minorities and political opponents. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, PCP and ENP were rejected, votes against BE, PAN, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the CDS-PP abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u245	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u246	Sir, please say it.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u247	Mr President, I would like to announce, on behalf of the PSD bench, that we will present a statement of vote either on the last draft resolution that was voted on or on the two previous draft resolutions.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u248	Mr. Deputy, it's registered. We now vote on the Resolution Project No. 554 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government make it possible to implement the full amount of the 2020 budget allocation for staff expenditure of the Entity for Political Accounts and Financing. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira were adopted, votes against the PS and abstentions of the PCP and the ENP.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 690 / XIV / 2. a (IL) — Online portal for transparency and monitoring of the process of implementing European funds. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the CH, the IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and abstains from BE, the PCP and the PEV.]] We will now start the voting procedure on the Bill No 53 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Creates the extraordinary process of business viability. First of all, we shall vote on a request by the PS and the PSD for a full vote on the proposed amendments relating to Articles 9. o and 15. the final text, submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, concerning the proposed law already mentioned. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] I wonder if the ladies. Members feel that it is necessary for us to have a debate or if we immediately proceed to the vote. [[Pause.]] If there is no opposition, I believe that we can immediately proceed to the vote. I would also like to ask whether we can vote together on the following two amendments because they are related. [[Pause.]] We therefore proceed to the joint vote in the speciality of the proposals submitted by the PS and the PSD, amending Article 9 ( 12 ). Article 15. the final text on the proposal for a law.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u249	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u250	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u251	Mr President, I was looking for the papers and, however, I noticed that these two votes have to be made separately, because we have different ways of voting.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u252	All right. So let's go back.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u253	Exactly. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u254	We shall then vote on the proposal submitted by the PS and the PSD amending Article 9 ( 12 ). the final text, submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, on the Proposal for a Law No 53 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Creates the extraordinary process of business viability. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of PS, PSD, CDS-PP and IL, votes against the PAN and abstentions from BE, PCP, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira were adopted.]] [[It is as follows: 12 - It is up to the company to bear the remuneration of the provisional judicial administrator.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u255	We now vote on the proposal by the PS and the PSD to amend Article 15. the final text, submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, concerning the same bill. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, CDS-PP, CH and IL, votes against the PAN and abstentions from BE, PCP, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira.]] [[It is as follows: Article 15 Without prejudice to Article 15(12), the extraordinary process of business viability is free of procedural costs.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u256	We shall then vote, in a comprehensive final vote, on the final text submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on the Bill No 53 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Creates the extraordinary process of business viability. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, CDS-PP, PAN, CH and IL, votes against BE, PCP and ENP and abstentions by non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We now have to vote, in general, on the replacement text submitted by the Committee on Economics, Innovation, Public Works and Housing on the Proposal for a Law No 41 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — establishes special public procurement measures and amends the Public Contracts Code and the Code of Procedure in the Administrative Tribunals. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes in favour of the PS, votes against the BE, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the PEN, the PEN, the CH, the IL and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the PSD and the Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u257	Mr President, I would just like to announce that, on this vote, I will present a declaration of individual vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u258	Mrs. Deputy, we're not here yet. It will have to be soon after the global final vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u259	Mr. President, then I apologize. I'll-I'll-I'll do it at the end.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u260	Then we have to vote for two requests for counsel. I assume we can vote them together. We therefore jointly vote on a request by the PSD for a vote by the plenary in the speciality of articles of the replacement text and another, submitted by the PS, for a vote by the plenary in the speciality of Article 70. the Decree-Law No 18 / 2008 of 29 January, as contained in Article 19. the replacement text submitted by the Committee on Economics, Innovation, Public Works and Housing on the Proposal for a Law No 41 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — establishes special public procurement measures and amends the Public Contracts Code and the Code of Procedure in the Administrative Tribunals. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us then move on to the supplementary script. I would ask you to sign what we can vote together; otherwise we shall vote in favour of the article. We shall therefore vote on the proposal submitted by the PSD to eliminate Article 7 ( 2 ). that of the replacement text. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of PS, PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN, CH and IL and with abstentions from PCP, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We shall now vote on the proposal submitted by the PSD to add a new paragraph 3 to Article 12. that of the replacement text. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, PAN, CH and IL, votes against BE and abstentions from the PCP, CDS-PP, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira.]] [[It is as follows: 3 - The exclusion of any proposals on the basis of this Article shall be communicated immediately by the contracting authority to the Institute for Public Markets, Real Estate and Construction, I.P., and to the Competition Authority.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u261	We now vote on the proposal by the PS to add a new paragraph 2 to Article 64. that of the Public Contracts Code, approved in annex to Decree-Law No 18 / 2008 of 29 January, as set out in Article 19. that of the replacement text. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PSD and IL, votes against BE and PAN and abstentions from the PCP, CDS-PP, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira.]] [[It shall be as follows: 2- When the notice of the procedure has been published in the Official Journal of the European Union, the extension period may not be less than six days or, in the situations provided for in Articles 136(3) and 174(2) and (3), four days.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u262	We turn to the vote on the proposal by the PS amending Article 70 ( 2 ( b ). that of the Public Contracts Code, approved in annex to Decree-Law No 18 / 2008 of 29 January, as set out in Article 19. that of the replacement text. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PSD and IL, votes against BE, CDS-PP, PAN and CH and abstentions from PCP, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira.]] [[(b) they have any of the attributes which violate the basic parameters set out in the specification or which have any terms or conditions which violate aspects of the performance of the contract to be concluded by the one not subject to competition, without prejudice to the provisions of Article 49(10) to (12).]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u263	We then voted on the proposal by the PS to amend Article 70 ( 2 ( d ). that of the Public Contracts Code, approved in annex to Decree-Law No 18 / 2008 of 29 January, as set out in Article 19. that of the replacement text. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PSD and IL, votes against BE, CDS-PP, PAN and CH and abstentions from PCP, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira.]] [[(d) that the contractual price would exceed the basic price, without prejudice to paragraph 6;]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u264	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u265	Sir, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u266	Mr President, in the previous vote of the amendment to Article 70 ( 2 ( b ). that of the Public Contracts Code, the meaning of the CDS-PP vote is 'abstention' and not 'against'.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u267	All right, Mr. Deputies. In any case, it does not alter the meaning of the vote, but it is recorded. We shall now vote on the proposal by the PS to amend the Protocol to Article 70 ( 6 ). that of the Public Contracts Code, approved in annex to Decree-Law No 18 / 2008 of 29 January, as set out in Article 19. that of the replacement text. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PSD and IL, votes against BE, CDS-PP, PAN and CH and abstentions from PCP, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira.]] [[It shall be as follows: 6 - In the case of a public tender or invitation to tender limited by qualification where all tenders have been excluded, the body responsible for the decision to contract may, exceptionally and for reasons of duly substantiated public interest, award of tenders which have only been excluded on the basis of paragraph 2(d) and whose price does not exceed by more than 20% the basic price, which, in accordance with the award criterion, is first ordered, provided that:]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u268	We turn to the vote on the proposal by the PS amending Article 70 ( 6 ( a ). that of the Public Contracts Code, approved in annex to Decree-Law No 18 / 2008 of 29 January, as set out in Article 19. that of the replacement text. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD and IL, votes against BE and abstentions from the PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira.]] [[(a) that possibility is provided for in the programme of the procedure and the method of the award criterion is referred to in Article 74(1)(a);]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u269	We now vote on the PSD proposal to eliminate Article 155. that of the Public Contracts Code, approved in annex to Decree-Law No 18 / 2008 of 29 January, as set out in Article 19. that of the replacement text. [[Subject to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, ENP and IL, votes against the CDS-PP and CH and abstentions by the NAP and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira.]] Let us then return to the main script to vote on the assumption by the plenary of the indexary votes held in the speciality at the Commission on the other rules of the replacement text. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We shall now proceed to the comprehensive final vote of the replacement text submitted by the Committee on Economics, Innovation, Public Works and Housing on the Proposal for a Law No 41 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — establishes special public procurement measures and amends the Public Contracts Code and the Code of Procedure in the Administrative Tribunals. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes in favour of the PS, votes against the BE, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the PEN, the PEN, the CH, the IL and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the PSD and the Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues.]] Mrs. Filipa Roseta, this is the time to announce what I recently wanted.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u270	Exactly, Mr. President, now yes. So that is to say, I will send you my written and individual vote on the vote we just made.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u271	All right, Mrs. Deputy, it's registered. I'm asking the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen waiting for a moment. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Members, there was a failure to communicate here, which was the following: when the draft vote on the destruction of the anta in the municipality of Évora, there had been a request from the Parliamentary Committee on Culture and Communication for this draft vote to be read by the President of that Commission. That information did not come to us in good time, but I think we are still in time to read it. Therefore, I ask Mrs. Secretary Sofia Araújo to read the Vote Project No. 352 / XIV / 2. a ( presented by the Committee on Culture and Communication ) — Condemnation for the destruction of anta in the Herdade do Vale da Moura and other archaeological heritage in the city of Évora. You have the floor, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u272	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the draft vote is of the following content: « Second public news in early October, in media bodies, was destroyed an ancestor of the neolytic or calculistic period located in the Herdade do Vale da Moura, in the parish of Torre de Coelhereiros, in Évora. This site had already been referred to in Endovélico — Archaeological Information and Management System, which is the main tool for managing archaeological activity and storage of archaeological information at national level. According to local groups defending the heritage, « the destruction of this archaeological heritage, of the end of the neolytic or calculistic period, occurred this summer, although those responsible for planting on that leased property are informed of its existence ». The Regional Director of Culture of Alentejo, Dr. Ana Paula Amendoeira, said that communication, as a complaint-crime, of the destruction of heritage with the Public Prosecutor's Office for the exercise of the necessary performance within the framework of his judicial competences was carried out. The Regional Directorate confirmed that the Anta is referred to in the Municipal Director Plan of Évora and was in the opinion of the Regional Directorate on Archaeological Heritage to be safeguarded in that property. We are thus faced with the failure to comply with the safeguard measures of that heritage included in the A1 value category. The Regional Director further affirms that the anta, clearly visible on the ground, « was formed by eight stems and by the hat, buried on the remaining traces of the mammoth of the funeral monument», empirically verifying the « attempt to remove the megalytic monument, remixing the entire interior area of the monument and moving its stems and the hat». In view of the report, there is no reason to disregard that a crime as serious as unexplained against cultural and material heritage has been committed. An archaeological set that resisted all historical and climate vicissitudes for thousands of years was in a few minutes destroyed, allegedly in the context of an agricultural operation. More recently there was news of other cases of destruction of similar monuments in the city of Évora, which reinforces the seriousness of the situation and the need for urgent intervention. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic strongly condemns the destruction of the archaeological monument that occurred in the Heirdade do Vale da Moura in the municipality of Évora, as well as other alleged similar cases at various points of the territory, and urges the Government to act on the precautionary measures necessary to prevent the disappearance of the materials that made up the affected archaeological findings, as well as the repetition of such attacks against cultural heritage, in particular through the adoption of all measures to safeguard and enhance the necessary cultural assets and the accountability of the authors of the destruction of the archaeological remains concerned in accordance with the law in force, in addition to appropriate judicial actions with the Public Ministry. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-16.u273	This draft vote was adopted unanimously at the time of its vote. The next plenary session will be on 22 Thursday from 3 p.m. to 5 p.m. The first is the debate of draft resolution No 679 / XIV / 2. a ( Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees ) — Proposals for a referendum on the penalty of death on request. of the second point is the assessment of the Ombudsman's Annual Report for 2019. In the third point we will generally discuss the Bill No 35 / XIV / 1. a ( ALRAM ) — In defence of the right of hearing of self-government bodies of the Autonomous Regions ( first amendment to Law No 40 / 96 of 31 August ). The fourth point consists in the general debate of the Bill No 36 / XIV / 1. a ( ALRAM ) — Committees of Inquiry of the Legislative Assemblies of the Autonomous Regions ( first amendment to Law No 48 / 2014 of 28 July ). of the fifth and last point is the assessment of the 2019 Annual Internal Security Report. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are finishing our work. I wish everyone a good weekend. See you next Thursday. The session is closed. [[It was 13 hours and 53 minutes.]]
