ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, let's start our work. [[It was 15 hours and 2 minutes.]] I extend a hug to everyone on this return from the plenary to the House of Democracy. We hoped that at this time we could have more flexible rules, but unfortunately the numbers and the concrete consequences do not allow us to do so, and we therefore, in essence, continue with the rules they chaired at the last plenary session of 1. the Legislative Session. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there are political statements on our agenda. Before then, however, Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha will be pleased to announce the introduction of some initiatives. You have the floor, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u2	Mr President, very late for everyone. They entered the Bureau, and were admitted, Law Projects No. 485 / XIV / 1. a (BE), 486 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ), 487 / XIV / 1. a (PAN), 488 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ), 489 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ), 490 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ), 491 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN), 492 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ), 493 / XIV / 1. a (PAN), 494 / XIV / 1. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ), 495 / XIV / 1. a (BE), 496 / XIV / 1. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ), 497 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN), 498 / XIV / 1. a (PAN)...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u3	Like the ladies. Members are checking, the notice of the file already follows the rules of the new Rules of Procedure, approved by VV. e.g. one of the last plenary meetings of 1. the Legislative Session. Please proceed, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u4	Mr President, Bills Nos 499 / XIV / 1 have also been introduced. a ( IL), 500 / XIV / 1. a ( BE), 501 / XIV / 1. a ( BE), 502 / XIV / 1. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ), 503 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ), 504 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) and 505 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ). They also entered the Bureau, and were admitted, the Resolution Projects No. 612 / XIV / 1. a (BE), 613 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ), 614 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ), 615 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ), 616 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ), 617 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ), 619 / XIV / 1. a ( CH), 620 / XIV / 1. a ( CH), 621 / XIV / 1. a ( Member not registered Joacine Katar Moreira ), 622 / XIV / 1. a (PAN), 623 / XIV / 1. a (PAN), 624 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) and 626 / XIV / 1. a ( IL). Finally, he entered, and was admitted, the Paramentary Survey No. 6 / XIV / 1. a ( IL). That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u5	Thank you very much, Secretary Maria da Luz Rosinha. We are therefore in a position to begin the first point on our agenda, which consists of political declarations. The first political declaration is for the PS Parliamentary Group. Before giving the floor to Mr Luís Moreira Testa, I recall that the rules of operation of the Plenary remain the same as they were in force before the holiday—unfortunately, this is the reality. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Portugal, Country of Atlantic vocation, has always looked at the worlds of the unknown that the sea epic closed, relegating less obvious prosperity territories and relevant dangers of different order. This historical perspective helps us, in part, to understand the country we are today, to help us in part and in part. It is that throughout the 20th century, and in the years that we have been in this century, imbalances have been accentuated without public policies having the ability to reverse the stage of asymmetries that Portugal has reached and, worse, this stage, in many cases, if not all, has worsened. Today we have a responsibility not only for the times in which we live but above all for the challenges ahead. When we make a finer reading and realize that the settings strongly determine the results in all dimensions and we realize that they affect us more than others and almost always negatively, we can also realize that, if we exclude the conjunctural variations, we quickly come to the conclusion that most of the variables that condition Portugal's behavior are structural root and imply, almost always, a negative behavior of our development patterns. Structure is territory. In fact, territory is the largest of our structures and, if unbalanced and unempowered, leads to a reality of loss of resources that results in the inability to fully develop. In recent times, much for political action, we have reversed the approach to the issue of territorial management and put a substantial part of the country, which we call 'the interior' — and which is indeed so — by the discrepancy of levels of competitiveness at the heart of policies. The creation of the Ministry of Cohesion and, in its dependence, of the State Secretariat of the Valorization of the Interior has allowed, since the beginning of the Legislature, to conclude actions and promote integrated development projects throughout the territory, as long ago as it did not feel, did not see and did not do.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u7	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u8	But it is also not only important that an agenda has been built that puts, by system, the fight against the country's structural imbalances as the theme of action—not only because it benefits only the interior territories, which would no longer be little, but because harmonious development contributes decisively to the overall development of Portugal, because it uses resources, takes advantage of capabilities, takes advantage of knowledge. In recent times, in recent months and in recent weeks, we have finally perceived the relevance of the centrality of such a paradigm shift. This week, in Lisbon, the Luso-Spanish Parliamentary Forum, which, without prejudice to other themes, and even with the loss of some, cross-border relations have played a role in the relationship between the two States, with the extraordinary dimension given to territories, such as that of the Nice Town Hall, which, with the assumption of the realization of the international bridge that will connect to the Spanish municipality of Cedillo, a little more than 100 m, will provide a trip of more than 100 km. I also refer to the presentation of the Strategic Vision document for the Portugal 2020 / 2030 Economic Recovery Plan, prepared by Prof. António Costa Silva, which is based on most of this recovery in the full use of our resources, which means mobilizing those that have never been used or have been taken into account, from within the country. The Iberian summit that will take place on 2 October in the Guard, with the same themes as the Parliamentary Forum, will also give a greater expression to this need, with the two Governments, Portugal and Spain, to conclude policies and investments for the cross-border territories that have the same needs and are themselves a great opportunity for both countries.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u9	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u10	In mid-October, the Government will present the Recovery and Resilience Plan, a document that we have to have the opportunity to debate and that, we are sure, it will also deserve consensus, more than desirable, imperative, so that Portugal can be a balanced, harmonious and developed country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I am sure that this design is not just my own or my own party, I am sure that this is a national design and that everyone, without exception, is indispensable to achieve it. The principle of history can no longer be changed, but we can change the end and reinvent this Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u11	Mr President, six Members have signed up to request clarification. Ladies and gentlemen. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u12	In groups of three, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u13	You have the floor, then, Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Greens.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Luís Testa, I welcome you for bringing to the debate a matter of this importance, which you have, in fact, deserved more attention from the Greens, as you know. In fact, talking about territorial cohesion is talking about the need to combat regional asymmetries, about the need to stop desertification in the country and the abandonment of the rural world. It is therefore a matter that should be given greater attention, both in the economic recovery plan and in the Great Plan Options, as well as in the State budget itself for 2021, because there is indeed much to be done in this matter. Incentives must be promoted for the creation of jobs within the country; public services must be reopened, which the PSD Government and CDS have closed all over the country; investment in the railway and reopening lines and blukes, which have been disabled throughout the country; and it must also give life to the Family Agriculture Statute, it must be done out of the paper. As you know, the Government has approved and published the Family Agriculture Statute, but so far little or nothing has progressed, in addition to its publication. However, family farming can be an excellent contribution, not only in terms of food sovereignty, not only as a contribution to the prevention of forest fires, because where there are fewer fires or, at least, they do not tend to gain the size that we have come to see, but also as a decisive factor or element in combating the desertification of the interior and the abandonment of the rural world. So this is important when we talk about territorial cohesion. Mr President, what I am asking you is to agree with the reading of the Greens on this matter with regard to the need for the Government to release from the role of the Family Agriculture Statute as an integral part of this plan, which is the purpose of territorial cohesion and the fight against desertification of the interior. [[Congrats from the CFP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u15	To ask for clarification, Mr. André Ventura, of the Arrival, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u16	Mr President, Mr Luís Testa, we have heard him carefully talking about decentralization and cohesion, but we cannot lose the opportunity to say the following: according to all the reports we have, from the European Union to the independent committees, today the country is less decentralised than it was five years ago. According to all the reports, today the country is less cohesive than it was five years ago in the field of agriculture, employment, health and, above all, in the field of culture and industrial development. To come here to make a political declaration on centralization, decentralization and cohesion is no longer to play with the voters. I put two very concrete questions. First: what will the Socialist Party do in terms of effective decentralization in cultural and industrial matters? It is that the Prime Minister has spoken a lot about cultural decentralization and has not said anything at all. Secondly, where are we going to stay in the regionalisation process? Are they going to move forward with regionalization or not? We need to know what they're going to do in this matter. And now no less important than these two questions I asked you: the Socialist Party will finally make a pact with the local authorities for decentralization or wait for the local elections to put theirs back in the same place and then decentralize with whoever it wants, as it can and in the same way as ever, distributing to friends, what does it know how to do?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u17	To make requests for clarification, Mr João Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u18	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Luís Testa, I would like to congratulate you on the subject you have brought here, because it is quite relevant and for a long time the CFP has discussed it in this House. He admitted that a few months, weeks or days ago he finally realized the need to correct the structural and structural imbalances that we have in our country and that have led to these territorial inequalities. But, in fact, I am sorry, I did not hear a word about agriculture. Referring to the rural world and to the interior — in fact, he referred to the interior, but only to territorial inequalities — and not to address the aspect of agriculture is an environment that perfectly reveals the approach and relevance that the PS gives to agriculture in the fight against territorial inequalities. [[Protests by PS Pedro do Carmo.]] For the CFP, defending the rural and inland world is only possible if we follow an alternative policy to defend family agriculture, job creation, strengthening public services and regional development. Only in this way can we create conditions for those who live there. I ask you, Mr President, what is the appreciation that family farming and agriculture can have in creating jobs and setting people in the interior territories, a fundamental aspect of economic and social development. Since you talked about structural imbalances, I ask you about the need to provide these territories with public health services, including primary health care, that is, the people's access to health. We are in a situation of impending failure with regard to the access of the population of the interior to health. Are there necessary means and professionals? Is the PS available to create conditions for strengthening these public services? Now, what about the conclusion of IP3 and IP8?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u19	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u20	I'm done, Mr. President. As for the electrification of the Alentejo Line? About the Central Hospital of Alentejo? As for the second phase of the expansion works of the hospital of Beja? With regard to all this, how do we stand, Mr? And I could have mentioned so many other things here. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u21	In reply, Mr Luís Testa, of the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u22	Mr President, I am going to answer this lot of three questions, which we thank, of course. Mr. José Luís Ferreira, of course the Socialist Party considers family agriculture as a development factor of low-density territories and looks at this aspect of agriculture as the one that is the most genuine of forms of agriculture and which must, of course, be valued in the context of the national panorama. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. João Dias, if I may, this is the point: we cannot ask one of the questions that is important to us to develop the territories of low density as if it were the only, alone and itself responsible for economic development, because there are other forms of agriculture, there are other forms of industry, there is another productive capacity that must also be generated inside. There is sophistication that must be generated inside, it must be empowered inside and we cannot look only half the way, because if we look only half the way, we also fail the expectations of these people. Mr. Member: Public Services? We are talking about the public services that this government and the previous government have reopened. I do not need to list them, because you are also part of a solution to support a government that has allowed public services to be opened inside.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u23	That's the one!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u24	So I excuse myself from scalping, one by one, the dozens and dozens of public services that have been reopened. The honourable Member had the opportunity to list a significant set of works that are on the lines of investment, both the NIP ( National Investment Programme ) and the National Reform Programme, and which are also part of the agenda. The question you must ask is not about works, it is about resources. We are working on resources to make these works a reality. Mr Ventura referred to cultural decentralization and industrial decentralization. Well, I'm helping myself with Mr. Deputy's sentence. The honourable Member has been stopped for five years! You don't know what's going on in the country! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CH's laughs.]] The honourable Member did not realize the progress made, the progress that has been made in the last legislature and, despite the pandemic we live, the ambition that we have as a parliamentary majority, and that this Government has to position Portugal as an advanced, prosperous, modern country that gives dignity and living conditions to all its inhabitants. Mr President, we call 'decentralisation' and 'decentralisation' in terms of state bodies, and therefore it is not compatible with the decentralization movement we are doing for the municipalities. But you asked this question to get to the issue of regionalisation.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u25	Mr President, I ask you to conclude, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u26	I shall conclude, Mr President. Regionalization is a flag of the Socialist Party for decades, but it is not what we are defending right now. at this time, we support the democratisation of the CCDRs (regional coordination and development committees) because it is necessary for those who decide on Community funds for chambers, for local authorities, for businesses, for citizens to respond democratically, even if indirectly, to the decisions they make. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u27	In order to make requests for clarification, Mrs Cecilia Meireles of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u28	Mr President, first of all I welcome Mr Luís Testa's Member of the Socialist Party. When I heard your speech, I asked myself which country you would live in, and whether you would be the same Portugal in which you live, because the country you describe — an oasis, an advanced country full of plans, agendas, designs — exists at best only in your wishes. What we really have is a country in which decentralization for the authorities, which you promised, has been postponed countless times and is far from complete. [[Protests by PS Pedro do Carmo.]] I would like to ask you a question. The honourable Member spoke of something he called « democratisation of the CCDRs ». It's not a democratization! What you call « democratisation of the CCDRs » is in fact the distribution of the state by clients and political commissioners chosen by the PS and PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u29	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u30	Mr Deputies naturally say that they will apply the Community funds, but I would like to draw your attention to the various news about the PSD President's choices for this or that CCDR and even to the fact that the government is taking advantage of the appointments of the CCDRs to move into State Secretaries, to send some state secretaries there!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u31	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u32	This is what you call 'decentralization'!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u33	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u34	This is the consecration of Portugal as a client country, in which the Community funds are executed and who decides who receives them are political commissioners chosen by the central block PS / PSD!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u35	All right! [[Protests by PS Pedro do Carmo.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u36	This is not democracy, this is the consecration of a client Portugal that is much more peculiar to the 19th century than of the 21st century! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u37	To make requests for clarification, Mr José Maria Cardoso, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u38	Mr President, Mr Luís Testa, I thank you for bringing this issue to the debate, an old, debated issue, but whose results have been very few. In fact, after so much discussion on all these issues, we continue to have an unbalanced, asymmetric country with a great lack of cohesion of opportunities, which is the fundamental aspect to be taken into account. Before creating conditions of fixation and attraction, what is fundamental to happening, it is necessary to understand why people have left these territories, because there has been this abandonment, because there has been this depopulation, in some cases, almost human desertification, especially in the rural world. We cannot make the same mistakes, and we must bear in mind that it is not enough to invest public money, in particular money from the Community funds, without seeing what the real priorities of this investment are. It seems fundamental to us that this happens and so far we have not seen it from the Socialist Party, specifically from the Government. It is not enough to create a ministry, it is necessary to give it the same utility. With regard to the summit you referred to, the Luso-Spanish Summit, it has now been realized that there is a set of common problems and that there is a need for cross-border cooperation. There must be joint conditions for this situation to be created as true and effective. Mr Luís Testa also referred to the issue of regionalization, saying that it is a wish of the PS. The problem is that you have not gone through this, that is, you remain as a desire without any effect. I ask you, very specifically, whether the Socialist Party will be prepared to build, with all of them, in an open and plural way, of course, a true national plan for the exploitation of the interiors — the interior is not all the same and cannot be treated all the same — which, among other things, includes a letter of basic public services, an integral articulation of the territory, the recovery of many of the lost services and the creation of a condition to be attractive at this level, such as, for example, access to a telecommunications connection with coverage capacity throughout this territory, which is a serious failure, because, in fact, it is not envisaged.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u39	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u40	And all of this makes an ecological, agroforestry and energy transition that responds to the needs of our times. We must put people in front of any economic perspective. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u41	It is the time of the PSD Parliamentary Group to request clarification. Mr. Carlos Peixoto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u42	Mr President, Mr Luís Testa, I begin by complimenting you and telling you that, when I saw on the agenda of the session a political statement on the territorial cohesion presented by the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, I was waiting for a revelation, a novelty, a feature, of any serious announcement. Honestly, I don't understand why the Socialist Party talks about this issue here. What do you want with this? Explain! What do you want with this? Oh, my God! It is that the first part of your political statement is only the recognition of the failure of the Portuguese State — the Portuguese state that you have led! [[Protests from PCP MP João Dias.]] In the last 24 years, they have led him for 18 years. And you came here to talk about your own failure! That's what you did! [[PSD applause.]] You know, Mr Deputies, in addition to a few clichés, in addition to some statements of piflies, it would be important for you to tell us, as we are about to discuss here, in this plenary, and send to Brussels the strategic plan of recovery of the country,... [[Protests by PS Pedro do Carmo.]] ... what the Socialist Party says about that proposal from the PSD Parliamentary Group that calls on the Government to create a specific allocation with autonomous management of these EUR 15 billion. Withdraw there, please, a part inside, apply - it inside, but in concrete projects - I would say that in magical projects! — not in speech. We are tired of the diagnosis, we are tired of talking about this, you have money out there and therefore you have to have the courage to apply it as it should be and you have the courage to provide it specifically in a specific heading — money to apply within the country. [[PSD applause.]] And you cannot come here to talk about territorial cohesion without telling us whether the PS will or will not lower the value of the tolls; whether the PS will or will not complete the IP3; whether the PS will or will not do the Guard hospital; whether the PS is or is not interested in discriminating the interior with quality higher education.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u43	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u44	I'm done now, Mr. President. And you can't get here without speaking about the proposal that the President of the PSD today has made to decentralise services, in this case two courts for Coimbra...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u45	Ah! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u46	...and others, which is what you have never done in recent years. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u47	Mr Luís Testa of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor to answer the various questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u48	Mr President, Mrs Cecilia Meireles, I could also consider the wishes of Mr Exa and would certainly draw just one conclusion: in the wishes of Mr Exa the worst, so that you can attack what you can attack. [[Protests from PSD Members.]] With regard to the democratisation of the CCDRs, has the honourable Member called on the mayors of this country, the members of the municipal assemblies, the presidents of the board of political clients? Oh, my God! [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Cecilia Meireles.]] These are the ones, democratically elected by the Portuguese people, who will vote and legitimise the CCDR frameworks.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u49	That's the one!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u50	Mr. José Maria Cardoso, we well know that you were not here in the last legislature and therefore you have not read the Interior Valuation Programme. I call on you to recover this document and read it, so that it can be updated and improved, eventually, and be the subject of your political proposal, which, of course, will be available to examine. But to say that there is no recovery plan for the interior seems excessive to me, knowing that there is an Inland Valuation Programme, which is an official document of the previous government. Therefore, Mr President, I invite you to the exercise of visiting this document. Mr. Carlos Peixoto, baby is V. Exa!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u51	I'm discussing ideas, not people!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u52	Pífio is V. Ex.a., because he accuses others of making statements of pífia,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u53	What does that have to do with ideas? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u54	... but in fact, when you had the opportunity to conduct policies, when you had the ability to influence politically, when you had responsibilities with the government that you supported, what you did was a mere exercise of hiding, hiding from your responsibilities and allowing courts in your district to be closed. I'm not going much further, but the courts of your district have been closed, parish boards have been aggregated,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u55	Everything back, everything going back!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u56	...health centers began to work weekend yes, weekend no. [[PSD Member Protest Duarte Marques.]] The presence of the State in the territory was highly and severely damaged during the PSD/CDS government. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u57	You don't remember the troika!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u58	That is why you cannot hide, even from reality, five years ago! Mr. Carlos Peixoto, I tell you, frankly, that what I expect from you is that, as an advocate of the interior, as I myself, you can bring concrete proposals here to provide us with the interior of infrastructures, access routes, knowledge... And the great proposal that the honourable Member brings to us today, in order to be able to appreciate, is the transfer of the central courts of Lisbon to this great city of the interior, which is Coimbra. Mr President, we can do every exercise, every exercise, but we need more than these exercises, we need to respond specifically to people. And since you told me about concrete works, yes, there are works that you have mentioned and which are in our plan of intentions of realization,... [[PSD protests.]] ... as well as, for example, Mr. Member, the IC31,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u59	Mr President, I ask you to conclude, you have already exceeded your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u60	... between Monfortinho, Castelo Branco and the Spanish border. The honourable Member does not mention what is to be said.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u61	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u62	Mr. Deputies, honesty in the debate! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u63	I shall now give the floor to Mr António Ventura of the PSD Parliamentary Group for a political statement, but I would ask the Members first. Members of the PS Parliamentary Group who are in the second row of the bank moving away. I know that solidarity has these things, but they are very close to each other, and so if there was a possible move, I would appreciate it. Mr António Ventura has the floor now, yes.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u64	Mr President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The elections for the Azores Parliament are held on 25 October. Since this is the Assembly of the Republic, I consider it appropriate and useful to bring to this Chamber, as a political space, the results of socialist governance in the region which are very worrying, I repeat, very worrying. The PS has ruled the Azores for 24 years, of which 20 with absolute majority. After this time, it is necessary to evaluate the'state of the region' through some social indicators. In the Azores, there are more than 15 000 beneficiaries of RSI ( social income for insertion ), i.e. more than 6 % of the Azorian population receives RSI, and is the highest value in all regions of the country. According to data from 2019, more than 70 % of young Azorians had precarious and poorly paid jobs and almost half of young Azorians received less than 500 € per month. Between 2018 and 2019, the rate of poverty risk in the Azores rose from 31, 5 % to 31, 8 % with the national average to be reduced from 17, 3 % to 17, 2 %. In other words, there are more than 77 000 people at risk of poverty, which corresponds to one third of the Azorian population. The Azores have the highest indicators of poverty in the country. The early school dropout rate in the Azores in 2019 was 27 %, while the national average was 10 % 6 %. On the continent it's bad, very bad, on the Azores it's worse. What about health? An Azorian can wait on a surgical waiting list for an average of four to five years and there are about 12,000 Azorians waiting for it. In addition to all this the dramatic depopulation and aging of the Azores population. The PS government in the Azores has been unable to combat poverty and has not been able to fix young people. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u65	In addition, we find governmental actions of reaction and not proactive. The PS government in the Azores is dead! The PS government in the Azores doesn't want to know! The PS government in the Azores does not rule! For example, let us look at Ryanair, which is flying to Third. These flights were to end on December 31st, but now they have extended us for a while longer. However, if the Government wished to continue these flights to the Third had solved the problem before it was a problem. Not ruling cannot be a way of ruling.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u66	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u67	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: What about these unfortunate indicators of my land, where the blame is not for the pandemic, because they are prior to it? Oh, my God! I feel ashamed, and it's the PS's fault!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u68	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u69	From the perspective of the PS governments, there was no shortage of money. They always boasted of the money they received from the European Union and from the State budgets, especially when governments were responsible for PS. We have always heard'successful' and 'increase the millions'! But there was no time left! We all agree that 24 years is more than enough time to plan and implement policies. So if you didn't miss the PS money or time, what did you miss? You've missed the essential! They lack the correct strategies, lack the policies and lack the people for the realization of these actions. In view of these social results, I can only clearly conclude that the policy of the PS for the region has created poor, invited the non-work and asleep society to impose the dependence of the Government — an increasing government — in order to perpetuate its existence in power. No, Mr. President of the House! No, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! I do not accept the continuity of these sad and unacceptable values for my land! [[Protests from PS deputy Isabel Rodrigues.]] In the Azores, we need less omnipresent government and more society. The government tries to be in everything to control everything and, more seriously, transforms in favour what is a right. There is an asphyxiation environment! [[PSD applause.]] The government is afraid to make people dependent and has positions that place islands against islands and Azorians against Azorians. The unequal development of the islands and even within each island is well known. The new Community funds are coming, however, in the hands of the same protagonists, those who have brought us up to these lamentable results, if they continue to govern, will certainly mean another four years lost. I believe in the Azorian people, believe in their liberation from this socialist yoke, believe in public policies that value work, create jobs,... [[Protests by PS Pedro do Carmo.]] ... they fix the young people, fight the easetism, in order to promote the personal realization of each Azorian. For all this, it becomes urgent, in the Azores, a political change already on the 25th of October! And José Manuel Bolieiro, PSD candidate, is the only one who can give a response to the real problems of the Azorians and offer a confident hope for the Azores to have a future. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u70	Mr President, Mrs Lara Martinho of the PS Parliamentary Group has been registered to make a request for clarification. Mr. João Oliveira is signaling the Bureau for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u71	Mr President, I am trying to call the Bureau several minutes ago, without it being heeded, because I also wanted to write to Mrs Alma Rivera for a request for clarification before the elections in the Azores. [[PS's laughter and applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u72	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Therefore, in addition to Mrs Lara Martinho, also Mrs Alma Rivera of the CFP, and Mr Mariana Silva of the Greens, will use the floor to ask Mr António Ventura for clarification. You have the floor, first of all, Mrs Lara Martinho.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u73	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr António Ventura, once again he comes here to this plenary to make a negative contribution to the image of the Azores. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD member Protests António Ventura.]] Fortunately, the Azores are recognised in the European Union for their development, for the work that has been done in our region in behalf of all the Azores. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u74	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u75	The honourable Member has focused on a unilateral, pessimistic view of our region, deliberately ignoring a set of fundamental aspects that would allow for a comprehensive and integrated view of the development and growth that our region has achieved in recent years, with a very great effort of all the Azorians. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And I would like to remind the honourable Member that the Azores were the most converging region with the European Union, our unemployment rate is the lowest in the country — 4, 9 % — our employed population and our active population before the pandemic were the largest in our history and we have an unparalleled social network in the country. In the past year, the number of registered members in the RSI dropped more than 3000 beneficiaries and, in education, there is a sharp decrease in dropout in all teaching cycles. And there is something that all Azorians recognize: the action of the Regional Government in the management of this pandemic, in the protection of the health of the Azorians,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... but also in the measures implemented of social support to workers and businesses. More than 70 measures were implemented, extraordinary, complementary to nationals, and gave a unique response to businesses, workers, all the steel workers who needed support. Of course, we all want ever more and better for our land—no doubt! — and we know that there is still a number of challenges that have been exacerbated by this pandemic. But, in order to overcome these challenges, to respond to the continuing needs, to ensure the recovery of our region, which has been strongly hit by this pandemic, the Azores Government has launched the Regional Economic and Social Recovery Agenda, which has 250 measures, and we have at our disposal a new set of Community funds.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u76	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u77	I'm really finishing up, Mr. President. As I was saying, in order to overcome these challenges, to respond to the needs that still persist, to ensure the recovery of our region, which has been strongly hit by this pandemic, the Azores Government has launched the Agenda for the Economic and Social Recovery of the Region, which has 250 measures, and we have at our disposal a number of important European funds, which are undoubtedly an opportunity, but also a great responsibility.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u78	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u79	And my question, Mr President, even to conclude, is this: to what extent is the PSD available to change the direction we have been accustomed to in recent years, with concrete proposals, which effectively value the Azores and which can contribute to the development of our region? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u80	Mr Alma Rivera, from the CFP Parliamentary Group, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u81	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr António Ventura, the analysis that the PSD does does does does not differ so much from what we do. [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u82	But if we converge on the evaluation of the policies of the majority regional government of the Socialist Party,... [[Protests from PSD Members.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, do not exalt yourself. If we converge, I would say, the truth is that many of the problems are also rooted in the Assembly of the Republic and to fight them we have not counted on the PSD. [[PCP applause.]] The Azores, especially because of their characteristics, need strong public services to ensure the fundamental rights of the Azores ; they need to improve access to health and their Regional Health Service ; they need to fix professionals and ensure responses to the different islands; they need investment in education, schools, teachers and employees, for more as long as we live. Destroying public services, printing them the logic of privatization, we regret to say, has been a joint work of PS, PSD and CDS. To talk about creating wealth and work is fundamental, but here, precariousness and the situation of youth are the result of your choices. To change, the Azores must have a public sector that responds in the area of development; they must value the SATA(Aerorian Air Transport Service) and their role in serving the populations; they must guarantee mobility, whether air or sea; they must invest in productive potentials, such as in Santa Catarina; they must support meat, milk and vegetables production and fishing. Is the PSD really available to defend regional interests before European institutions? The CFP has been beaten by concrete measures serving the Azores, either by the Port of Horta, by the Plan of Economic Revitalization of the Third Island, by the remodeling of the courts or by works in prisons. We have made some progress for the Azorian people, not with, but despite the PSD. We continue to fight for the realization of the increase of support for former Cofaco workers, which we were able to approve in the State Budget last year, because it is a right of these workers and the minimum that can be done for these families. Mrs. Members, the Azores need even another government action, they need even a turn, but it has to be real and not to « turn the record and play the same ». [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u83	For clarification, Mrs Mariana Silva of the Green Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u84	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Greens welcome Mr António Ventura, who brings concerns to this House with the Autonomous Region of the Azores. The proximity of the elections brings these reminders, but surely in time of pandemic, fear and uncertainty, voters will be able to clarify the programmes that each force will present and decide, to respond to the problems left by the PSD in the region and to which the PS was not able to respond. It is, above all, essential that promises and intentions that do not pass away do not continue. Therefore, Mr President, I am going to address two questions which concern the Greens. As you will know, once again the competition was launched for the construction of a municipal solid waste incineration centre on the island of São Miguel, after another plant was built on the third island, which is functioning far below its capacity. The Greens argue that the approach to waste management should be taken on the contrary. What is required is the drastic reduction in amounts, particularly of plastics entering the islands — which is a serious problem! — and a greater bet on selective collection and referral for recycling, accompanied by mechanical or biological treatment technologies, which exempts any incineration system, because the remaining fraction will never be sufficient to justify a new incineration. So, what is the PSD's position on this issue? The other question, honourable Member, is the following: what is the PSD's position in implementing the basic satellite launch project on the island of Santa Maria without the population being involved and heard? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u85	To answer this set of questions, Mr António Ventura has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u86	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the first conclusion of this debate is that all political parties who had the opportunity to intervene, except PS, are in accordance with the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u87	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u88	So the results are those. The situation is regrettable in terms of the results of the Azores government. This is the first big conclusion! Obviously the PS disagrees, because it is who governs the Azores.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u89	Desgoverne!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u90	Second conclusion: if policies have as their sole goal people, the improvement of their lives, their economic activity and their well-being, we have two indicators that tell us the opposite — clearly the opposite! — which are the fact that the Azores have the highest risk of poverty in the country and the highest value of RSI in the country. After 24 years of PS governance, with so many plans, with so many agendas, with so many projects announced and so many million of the budget of the Republic, the European Union and the Regional Government of Azores, the Azorian taxpayers, the truth is that we have these results. So they failed. I think the conclusion is obvious: they failed! People are living worse, they have less income, they are poorer, they depend more on the government. Is there any doubt about this? Don't! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u91	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us move on to the political declaration of the Left Block. Mrs. Joana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u92	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This week millions of families again entrust their sons and daughters to public school. It is one of the biggest challenges in the country and it is the greatest challenge of all time in public school. The return to present education is today a national consensus as strong or even stronger than the need to close schools in March. We know that there are risks in this return, we know that there are doubts and that there would always be doubts, but it would be worse not to return. Worse than the doubts would be the certainty of a generation without education. So to all the families this week, today and these days, they had to stay on the side of the gate, as well as to all the students who passed over to the side of the gate to return to the classrooms, we want to leave a greeting and a message of confidence that they are doing the right thing. While others engage in dirty controversy, we went up to this rostrum in an exercise of responsibility. The Government's action to organize the beginning of the school year is not exempt from scrutiny—it would not be in any case and much less now. For this debate, we want to start with the Prime Minister's premise, and I quote: "Only caution can reduce anxiety. The direction of the school, teachers, assistants and technicians can do the best work possible, but if each student or family does not do the best possible, then it does not work. Do not keep on seeking. ” The question is: will the government do enough to wash their hands of risks on the civic behavior of students and families? If, today, families can entrust their children and daughters to public school, it is because schools and education professionals have staticed all the rope they had to ensure the safety of all. It is not fair to say that the government has done everything in its power to facilitate their lives. It was possible to have gone further and earlier: in the deployment of classes, to increase the distance, as the Left Block proposed in June; in the early hiring of teachers and employees; in the clarity on the protection of risk groups, on the pedagogical follow-up of students in quarantine and on a set of other sanitary matters. Lack of preparation always gives rise to suddenness. As risk management has remained for schools, they try to control it as they can, arising from other dangers that we should not overlook either, such as transforming the school into a painful experience for all. We must do everything we can so that children aged 12 and 16 don't have to stay the whole day inside the classroom, interval after interval, class after class, and even do meals inside that room, forbidden to leave school even to go home for lunch. The classroom can't be a prison. From here on, we have to think what could have been done. What structural problems of public school have the government ignored, even in the face of a pandemic that has made them even more serious? First: equip schools with computer equipment should not depend on a millionaire contract, which was promised for the beginning of classes, but which eventually only arrives at Christmas. It should be from the budget management of each school to have sufficient resources to buy the computer equipment you need — always, not only in pandemic time. Then, the decrease in the number of students per class should already be more advanced. It has all the advantages and it should have moved on. As for the rejuvenation of the teaching class, it should look forward to the problem. Half of the teachers will retire in three or four years and no one will replace them. And it's those teachers that we're now going to ask you to integrate the front line. How is it possible to speak of a well-prepared school year when, only this week, at the beginning of the school year, teachers are already missing in 600 schools, even without counting on those who belong to risk groups and are going to leave schools? Public school needs new blood and needs a future. The public school also needs, and already needed, to hire employees. For seven months, the portfolio of ratios has been under review, in accordance with the proposal of the Left Block adopted in the State Budget. Seven months ago, the hiring of employees depends on the change in the gate of ratios, only to respond to the normality of public school, no longer to mention the increase that is now necessary for cleaning and extending schedules. This was a missed opportunity to find itself in the pandemic and in responses to the pandemic responses to the structural problems of public school. The Ministry of Education has given up being a strategy of education policies to become a greedy manager, who always tries to graze with schools the resources they need, as they all see. At the moment, we must do what is still possible, since the government has not done everything it can. It is still possible to hire and bind employees who say schools are necessary for the hygiene, cleaning and extending of hours. It is still possible to hire teachers that we know will be needed throughout the year. It is still possible to give the necessary autonomy and resources to schools, to adapt their strategies throughout the school year and to be able to do as much needed to unfold classes. As the Prime Minister himself said, it is not the walls of the schools that carry the virus, the ones who carry it are the people and, therefore, it is not equal to being 16, 20 or 28 students between the same walls of the school. It is undeniable that any country with these conditions could be more prepared to face this pandemic. Preparing for the school year is not going after the damage and counting that schools do very little, and the fact is that the government did not do everything it could.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u93	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u94	I'm done now, Mr. President. If the classes start this week safely it is because the country trusts in public school, but the future of this trust will also depend on the government to start doing its part. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u95	Mrs Joana Mortágua has five requests for clarification: those of Mrs Cláudia André, PSD, Ana Rita Bessa, CDS, Paula Santos, PCP, Mariana Silva, Greens, and that of Mr Tiago Estêvão Martins, PS. How do you intend to respond, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u96	Mr President, first to two and then to the other three.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u97	For clarifications, Mrs Cláudia André of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u98	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Joana Mortágua, we have listened very carefully to your statement and we agree, in large part, with what has been said here, in particular with the question which leads us to conclude that the Government, the Prime Minister and the Minister of Education do not follow with action what they announce in the media for a long time now. The computers that were widely promised in the media and in this Chamber arrived today in schools? Did you get to school this week? No, at least they didn't come from the Ministry of Education.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u99	Nothing!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u100	For operational assistants, hundreds of vacancies, hundreds of contracts were promised. Some may even have been done, but the number of effective, technical and operational assistants did not reach the schools. Why? Because they're the same ones there, they're changing the type of contract. We agree that they will stay there, that they will improve their working conditions, but much more needs to be done. Regarding students at risk, they go home to protect themselves, but they do not have the guarantee, according to the Ministry's guidelines, that they can have synchronised classes and be accompanied in the same way as all the students were, when we had to confine. With regard to the teachers at risk, it has not yet been well understood, but apparently documents are needed to prove that they are sick, when in fact they are not, in order to be considered as teachers at risk. So they go home, but they don't work, despite the lack of teachers that exist. We also know that school transport, especially far from urban areas, where few people have voice, unfortunately, is a problem for the authorities. Has the Ministry of Education worked with the authorities on this subject? No, he didn't work! There are children who will have to stay at school. It is that, although your school is divided into two shifts, the children of the morning shift will have to stay until the end of the day in order to get home. Thus, they stay in school regardless of whether or not they have contact. My lords and ladies, the PSD has raced all over the country, from North to South: Trás-os-Montes, Castelo Branco, Algarve, coast and interior.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u101	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u102	If it weren't for school work, if it wasn't for the big team that schools have, I don't know if it would be possible today and this week, the classes would continue or start.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u103	Mrs. Deputy, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u104	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u105	I have the floor for the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u106	Mr President, I welcome Mrs Joana Mortágua on the subject brought back in a re-editation of the discussion we had last week in a debate required by the PSD. at that time, as you know and well remember, we all agreed that the return to present classes was a requirement in favour of students and families, until the country resumed its full activity. What changed last week for this? What are the new data? What we know is that a set of schools—for example, international schools or some private schools—which started the educational activity earlier had several cases and that, on the recommendation of the health authority, as stipulated by DGS (Direction-General of Health), an extended set of students had even gone home. What I do not see discussed, and I do not continue to see discussed, neither by the government nor by the honourable Member, is what happens, from the point of view of academic continuity, to these students who have to go home, or because they have infection, or because they are in prophylactic isolation. In the case of these schools, the truth is there are solutions. They may be more or less of the pleasure of the parents, but there are solutions mounted. from here to 15 days, this that we are seeing in international schools will replicate a little across the country, also in public schools. As the honourable Member knows, this Ministry has stipulated that either the whole of schools will be in attend school, or the whole of schools will be in mixed education, or the whole of schools will be at home. There is no superposition of systems. Therefore, I am very afraid that when you start having to go home whole classes and years, there is no educational continuity and that the best solution we have to ensure that these students do not go without learning is the teleschool. I ask you if this is also the answer advocated by the Left Block and if the Left Block does not have a word to give to students and their families about how the school service is guaranteed, a fundamental right of students and families. By the way, Mrs. Deputy spoke about the lack of teachers. The Minister has also recently spoken in the hiring of 3300 teachers, in co-adjudications and tutoring.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u107	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u108	I shall conclude, Mr President. Does the honourable Member think that this number of teachers is sufficient to guarantee this considerable support in continuity when students have to go home? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u109	In reply, Mrs. Joana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u110	Mr President, I would like to thank the honourable Members for their questions. The pedagogical continuity of students who have to go home for quarantine reasons or because they belong to risk groups is a matter that concerns us, so much so that the Left Block has already asked the Government a question on this matter. I don't know if the CDS did,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u111	Now!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u112	...but this is a matter that we have been concerned about for some time now. The difference is that—and this comment goes also to the questions that were put by Mrs. PSD Member Claudia André — when we ask these questions about the beginning of the school year, about the impreparation, about the space given suddenly, about how schools are to be at risk, we, in the Left Block, have a certainty and we talk to this certainty: that of having presented timely solutions. These solutions were discussed in June and were going through a project to unfold classes and decrease the number of students per class, which had many advantages. [[PSD MP Protests Cláudia André.]] It could be discussed. The gentlemen. Members could say that it was impossible to practice. Was it really impossible? If the Ministry had been given the job of discussing with each school its condition to respect social distance and had it asked each school how many teachers needed, how many employees needed, it would be so impossible to be better prepared than we are now for the beginning of the school year? The problem is that CDS and PSD hide behind health problems a defeat that the pandemic has shown to all liberals: it is necessary to invest in public school. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u113	O Mrs. Deputy! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u114	What they cut under the excuse of the crisis, what they cut under the excuse and with the hot back of the troika was now much needed to respond to the pandemic. Those teachers who are no longer there, the rejuvenation that has not been done, because they also dropped proposals in this sense,... [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Ana Rita Bessa.]] ... officials who have not been hired and who now have to be hired, all this was investment that could now have helped the public school to meet these challenges. Therefore, when there was an opportunity to discuss solutions for pandemic education, the Left Block did not lack this debate. The right said that our solution was no solution for anything, but the truth is that, so far, it did not present an alternative. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u115	We introduced, we introduced!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u116	There are three more entries to request clarifications, the first being Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP Parliamentary Group. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u117	Mr President, I would like to congratulate Mrs Joana Mortágua on the subject which brings the debate today to the Assembly of the Republic on the beginning of the academic year. If it is true that, normally, it is anxious that families and students, in particular, live these moments, always at the beginning of the new school year, given the circumstances in which we live, this year brings added concerns. But let's go. First of all, we would like to point out that the fact that this school year is starting with face-to-face education is of great importance. Now, measures need to be taken from the point of view of the protection of the health of students, teachers, of all school employees to continue this present education throughout the school year. The distance teaching showed us the deep inequalities that exist, showed us - the importance of the classroom, showed us - the importance of the role of the school, in particular the public school, and showed us - the importance of the teacher's role in the follow-up of students. But this implies that there is more investment, more workers, more technical means and better school park. If many of the proposals that the CFP has been presenting in the Assembly of the Republic had already been implemented, we would certainly be facing this pandemic with much better conditions: the expansion of the school park, the reduction of the number of students per class, more workers, more educational action assistants, more teachers, more technicians to support students. But these were not the options of successive governments. There are now concrete and immediate measures to be taken, and it is still in time for them to take them. We place here, in particular, the question of workers, the need for the hiring of educational action assistants. If there were already a lack of educational assistants in schools—the lack of more than 5000—is identified, with all these needs added, including hygiene, cleaning, monitoring, surveillance, needs are much greater. This is a matter that we consider as a priority right now.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u118	Thank you very much, Mrs. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u119	I will finish, Mr. President. We have already tabled a proposal at the beginning of this Legislative Session, precisely in this sense and we consider this fundamental matter so that schools have the conditions to protect the health of all. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u120	You now have the floor, for a request for clarification, Mrs Mariana Silva of the Greens.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u121	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Greens welcome Mrs Joana Mortágua's speech on the beginning of the school year 2020 / 2021, which is so important for all, even as a society, for schools, for families and particularly for children and young people. The Greens take advantage to praise the efforts that the various school communities are making to resume school safely for all. Unfortunately, many are the doubts for which we still have no answer. The Minister of Education says that schools have everything prepared and have met all recognized needs, but we know, for example, that individual tables do not exist in all schools, a detail that would make all the difference. All are unanimous in affirming that the experience of the 3. the period cannot be repeated. The school is learning and education, but it is also socialization and contact. Nothing replaces the present classes in school, with a link close to the teacher, the connection to friends and the connection to the new and the different. We know it wasn't all right. We know that it is necessary to make diagnoses of the mental health of students and of the material and social needs of family aggregates, that look at specific cases and that the options and rules are not generalized in a blind and unequal way, ensuring the right of children to go to school, to participate in activities, to be happy. Returning to school with all guarantees requires the hiring of more teachers and more employees so that it is possible to ensure the hygiene of spaces on a regular basis, so that the monitoring of students is closer to encouraging the rules of hygiene, in the outdoor spaces, in the canteens and in the reception of them. More means and more investment are needed by the Ministry of Education, so that municipalities are no longer in charge and, above all, so that the inequality of conditions in schools throughout the country is not installed. So, Mrs Deputy, do you not consider that it is also necessary to ensure urgent support for children with special educational needs, in particular? It does not consider that the situations of children with particular difficulties, whether for economic or social reasons, or for health reasons,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u122	Thank you very much, Mrs. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u123	I'm really finishing up, Mr. President. As I said, do you not think that the situations of these children should have appropriate treatment to guarantee them the right to be at school without any discrimination? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u124	Mr Tiago Estêvão Martins of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u125	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Joana Mortágua, we know that this is indeed a particularly complex school year, a very demanding year, which, of course, calls us to a very difficult balance between health and the right to education. The truth is, without ignoring the risks, it is our understanding that the return to present education, despite all difficulties, is beginning as quietly as possible. Today, all schools are prepared and informed about how to proceed to prevent infections in the school environment, but also about how to act in the event of infection. So if there is something that has not actually happened, it was the government that went after the damage. Having said that, it is important that we also recognise that the requirement of the situation requires us to keep an eye on the situation and shows that we need to be careful and that we seek to continually improve our response. It is also natural that, as the honourable Member has had the opportunity to speak, we all want more resources for public school. But, in our view, it is very important that, in this debate, we can show two facts that have not been evidenced: firstly, there are more resources available, there are more teachers, there are more technicians and, secondly, this was the placement contest of teachers that occurred more early in recent years. These aspects are very relevant so that we can find the necessary confidence for this school year very difficult that we have in front of us.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u126	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u127	So I would like to end with a very specific question: Mrs Deputy, do you not recognise that, despite all the work that we have to do to strengthen public school, there is indeed more means and this year there has been a real effort for the timely placement of teachers? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u128	In reply, Mrs. Joana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u129	Mr President, I would like to greet Mrs Paula Santos and Mrs Mariana Silva because we share this political investment in defense of public school. Let us imagine what it would be if the education of children, in Portugal, depended on a private network, as always defended the right, a cheque-teaching network, with schools in layoff, making layoffs.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u130	Don't be a pain in the ass! It's nothing like that!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u131	What education would have been possible in times of pandemic?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u132	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u133	The truth is that it is this investment that creates conditions for students with special educational needs—to whom, at the moment, above all, can not lack resources for schools to give adequate answers,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u134	But we're missing!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u135	... that are even more difficult in time of pandemic—but also for the conditions of the school park. I know that Mrs Paula Santos shares with me knowledge of the case of the John de Barros school, for example, where students are still in containers and where she will be inside containers that will pass the intervals and hours of meals, because, after so many years, the problem of that school, in Sixal, has not yet been solved.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u136	But the honourable Member approves the budgets in the greatest!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u137	Mr Tiago Estêvão Martins, it is understood that it is the role of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group to support the Government, but there is some critical spirit in this matter. If you ask me if, for each group, two to four teachers, 900 specialist precarious technicians and half a hundred operational assistants — which were the resources available to schools in front of the pandemic — are sufficient, I say to you now. I also tell you that it is not understandable that we have been waiting seven months for a series of ratios that gives schools enough employees, with contracts in which nothing is done more than running after the damage, without solving the underlying problem. The government had seven months and three more months of summer, during the pandemic, to provide the schools with sufficient staff and, still today, there are schools in Santiago do Cacém that could not open because they have no employees and, still today, directors say that they have no employees. It is impossible to say that the school year was well prepared when there are 600 schools without teachers, despite the early placement that was initially done. It is impossible to say that everything was done that was within reach when there were schools to which classes were not allowed to unfold, even if they were able to do so. I also know cases, 1. the cycle, in which the boys will pass to mixed classes, with 1. o is 2. the years together, with the most full room, for not having been authorized to unfold classes. The critical spirit requires us to admit that schools have done everything they can, that we send a security message to families, but also that we criticize the government for not doing everything they can to invest in the beginning of a more stable and safer school year. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u138	We move on to the political declaration of the CFP Parliamentary Group. Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u139	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We commemorate 41. the anniversary of the National Health Service ( SNS ), a conquest of April and a collective construction of all its workers, which, from the first moment, contributed with their knowledge, effort and commitment to ensure health care with quality and proximity. We celebrate the anniversary of the SNS, public service, universal and general, which, since early on, their enemies have sought to attack because it is an obstacle to their claims of commercialization of health. in these 41 years, the SNS has shown to be the instrument and solution to ensure everyone's access to health, despite shortcomings and limitations resulting from the deinvestment of several governments, which we do not ignore, and therefore we defend an alternative policy to strengthen the capacity of the SNS. Unlike others, who deliberately attack the SNS with a view to their credibility and fragility, we do not understand that private health groups are a solution for the provision of care. For those who still had doubts, the epidemic we live in clearly revealed that what really matters to private health groups is not the health of people, but the disease business and the maximization of profits. In the early phase of the epidemic, private groups hid and closed the doors and, more recently, we found that there are private units that reject pregnant women who have a positive test at the COVID-19. When right-wing political parties here argue that public resources should not be mobilized to strengthen the SNS, but transferred to private groups, they are not defending the health of users, but the business of the disease and the profit of the economic groups at the expense of Portuguese health. On the other hand, the lack of effective measures by the Government leaves the door unlocked for the privatization of health to gain even more land. Despite the proposal adopted in the State Budget for 2020, the Government has not yet advanced with the creation of the national drug laboratory, which is essential to ensure accessibility to medicines, but also to reduce the country's external dependence.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u140	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u141	The hiring of health professionals is far from what is necessary and, daily, we are experiencing new difficulties in health units due to the lack of workers. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: at this time, great demands are placed on the National Health Service, which impose measures for the recovery of consultations, surgeries, examinations and treatments that have yet to be done. The National Health Service must continue to treat VOCID patients, prepare for the approaching winter period and, at the same time, ensure the monitoring and treatment of patients with all other diseases, which have not disappeared. Comparing the period between January and July 2019 to 2020, there is a reduction of more than 4 million consultations in primary health care, fewer than 100 000 surgeries and less than 1 million hospital consultations. In complementary means of diagnosis and therapy, the trend is similar. There are difficulties in accessing primary health care. There are closed health extensions. Some users can't make queries and sometimes when they can, the query is at the window, without any privacy. Users cannot telephone the health centre, or because the system is obsolete, or because there are not enough workers to meet the calls, or, then, they are waiting for hours of care, at the door of the health center, sometimes exposed to adverse climatic conditions. People with chronic diseases are not having the necessary follow-up and there are screenings of cancer diseases to do. If access to primary health care is limited, reference for consultations in hospital units is conditioned.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u142	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u143	To aggravate the situation, in the first eight months of the year, more than 200 000 users lost their family doctor, now totaling 953,000 users without a family doctor. The recovery of primary health care activities and their consultations must be considered as a priority, as well as the recovery of all care activities, and it is necessary to invest in this. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In view of the centrality of health issues and the lack of an effective response from the Government to solve the existing problems, the CFP delivered legislative initiatives, at this beginning of the session, for the enhancement and strengthening of the rights of health workers, for the allocation of a remuneration supplement to the workers of the essential services—which, of course, include health workers—and for the creation of a plan to recover activities in primary health care, considering difficulties in access to health care. Clear SNS strengthening policies are needed : in its financing; in the hiring of more workers in the field of health and in the integration of workers with precarious links in a career with public bond; in the increase and modernization of equipment and in the increase of the number of acute beds, intensive care, continuous and hospital care; in the creation of occupational medicine services in all health units; in the strengthening of the capacity of diagnostic and therapeutic means; in the extension of mental health response; and in the strengthening of public health teams, as proposed by the CFP in the emergency plan for the National Health Service. Responding to possible worsening of the COVID-19, in the coming days, and recovering delays in the provision of health care is not only necessary as possible. The SNS has all the conditions to give the necessary answer at the moment, it must be strengthened in its capacity, with more workers, respecting its rights, and with more equipment. It is in the SNS that the solution lies in ensuring the constitutional right to health for all users. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u144	Mrs Deputy, you have several requests for clarification from the PSD, the Left Block, the Arrival, the Liberal Initiative, the CDS, the Greens and the PS. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u145	Mr President, I'm sorry, are there all six requests for clarification?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u146	That's seven, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u147	Mr President, then I will respond to requests for clarification in three groups: two groups of two and the remaining three groups.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u148	All right, Mrs. Deputy. Thus, for the first request for clarification, Mrs Sandra Pereira, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u149	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would naturally like to greet the Portuguese Communist Party for bringing this issue of health, which is very current, the debate. I would also like to express, on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, a special greeting to all health professionals,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u150	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u151	... that have faced, in recent months, challenges of great complexity. [[PSD applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we all know of the tremendous impact that the COVID-19 pandemic has on the health of Portuguese. As I said, well, the PCP, for half a year, millions of Portuguese have experienced a significant increase in the difficulties of access to the National Health Service, diagnoses, treatments and other health services, such as consultations and surgeries. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this year, for example, fewer than 100 000 surgeries scheduled in public hospitals, numbers which unfortunately go up even further and to which, as you have said, and well, the Member of the Communist Party, the waiting lists that have already come from behind.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u152	Very well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u153	In view of this reality, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we demand a national movement for the recovery of consultations, surgeries and diagnostic examinations, which should mobilize all sectors of society — all, Mrs Deputy, without exception — and health agents, brothering the State, social solidarity institutions and private and conventional entities with health activities around only one common good: the satisfaction of the health needs of all Portuguese people. That is what the Democratic Social Party defends, but it is not, unfortunately, that it defends the Portuguese Communist Party. The Portuguese Communist Party only defends more state, more state, more state!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u154	I'm glad there's a state!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u155	I would like to ask you, Madam Member, whether, in reality we are currently living, it is not time to put aside the ideological prejudices with the care and complementary activity of the National Health Service and mobilize all resources so that we can make a recovery of all the health services that have been postponed and that have compromised the health of the Portuguese. Isn't it time for the CFP to change the cassette, in view of this imperative of Portuguese health? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u156	You have the floor, for a request for clarification, Mr Moisés Ferreira, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u157	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Paula Santos, as mentioned in her speech, was noted yesterday on 41. the anniversary of the National Health Service. Forty-one years after this same Chamber created an instrument that allows health to be a right for the entire population, even with the votes against the right, the PSD and the CDS-PP, I believe that, in addition to the happy anniversary that we should wish for the National Health Service, we should also be a huge "thank you", not only for the National Health Service but also for its workers. This is perhaps the most difficult year in the life of the National Health Service, faced with an epidemic, with a huge burden of work, but never turning its face to struggle and its responsibilities. We therefore owe this "thank you" to the SNS and its workers. It is also necessary to draw two essential lessons from this pandemic: the first is that it is with the National Health Service that we, all the people, can count on in all situations, but we cannot count on the private sector, which closes the doors to the first difficulty;...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u158	Oh, my God! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u159	...the second is that it is in the National Health Service that we must invest and concentrate all public resources, because it alone guarantees the right to health, as we have seen since March to now.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u160	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u161	Therefore, what is needed at this time is even more National Health Service, it is even more professional in the National Health Service, it is even more investment in the National Health Service, as plans for recovery of activity, of course, for primary health care, for medical boards, for hospital care, with autonomy for hiring, releasing the National Health Service from a familiar law of the Compromises, with decent careers for all professionals, from health assistant technicians to senior diagnostic and therapeutic technicians, nurses, doctors — all have to have a decent career. That's how we're going. But the right, as we have seen here, comes, with the old mantra of the time, to say that, after all, it is necessary to empty the budget of the National Health Service to give to the private, who closed the doors during the most serious period of the pandemic in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u162	No one shut any doors!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u163	Question : Is this not the way to misfortune? Is the way not, after all, to reinforce what protects us in the most difficult times, which is the National Health Service? [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President Fernando Negrão took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u164	You have the floor to answer, Mrs Paula Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u165	Mr President, I thank Mrs Sandra Pereira and Mr Moisés Ferreira for the questions they addressed to me. I begin by replying to Mr Moisés Ferreira, saying that, in fact, we believe that the National Health Service is the solution to address the problems that exist, the solution to ensure, without any discrimination, access to health care. Mr. Deputies, who closed doors in the early period of the epidemic...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u166	It was the SNS!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u167	... were not the units of the National Health Service. Everyone kept the doors open, all hospitals kept their doors open. Who shuts doors and who shuts himself in glasses...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u168	It was the SNS!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u169	... were, in fact, the private groups that intervene in the area of health. The PSD now raises a rhetorical question again, but in practice shows that for the PSD, the important thing is not the strengthening of the National Health Service, it is not that the National Health Service has more capacity to respond to users.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u170	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u171	It's not the PCP that has any kind of ideological conditioning. The PSD is that it is completely conditioned and here, in its interventions, what it defends are not the public interests, it is not the health interests of users, but the interests of profit and business of large economic groups. [[PCP applause.]] That has been your position and position in this whole debate. [[PSD MP Sandra Pereira protests.]] Madam Member, we want to mobilize all public resources, but so that the SNS, health centres, hospitals have more workers, have more equipment, have more capacity to respond to users. It is not to mobilize public resources to transfer them to private groups, so that a minority will win at the expense of the health of all users in our country. For that reason they clearly do not have the CFP, and in this respect this is very clear. [[PCP and PEV applause.]] The epidemic has indeed brought us several lessons, and one of them is that it was the National Health Service, with the characteristics it has – it is true that with a set of limitations, in which the PSD has great responsibilities, because, when it was government, it has invested in the National Health Service to benefit private groups –,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u172	Well remembered! [[PSD MP Sandra Pereira protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u173	...that gave answers to all, all without any discrimination, leaving no one at the door to deal with.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u174	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u175	That is why we say that the National Health Service must be strengthened, not only to respond to patients with COVID, but to address the great need at this time to recover from all delays and not to benefit private groups, as the PSD defends. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u176	You have the floor, for a request for clarification, Mr. André Ventura, of the Arrival.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u177	Mr President, Mrs Paula Santos has forgotten to answer the question of the Left Block, but since it was not a question, I realize that she has not even spent much time looking at it. Today, Mrs Deputy, maintains the same dichotomy as ever: the « evils» of the private ones, on the one hand, and the « good» of the public service on the other. They do not realize that they hostile a large part of the Portuguese population and continue to say that they deserve and others do not deserve, as if they did not pay taxes and others were the only ones to support this State. For let me tell you, Mrs Deputy, that in the first month more than 330 beds were made available by private hospitals in the fight against COVID. But 330! In Lisbon, Porto, Matosinhos and Lagos, hospitals opened the door to COVID patients. Look at them in the face and tell them that they do not deserve their recognition and that of this House in the fight against the pandemic, which is what the Communist Party has done for decades. I tell you more, Mrs. Member : until June this year, 1, 4 million consultations were to be held at the National Health Service. It was not this side of the House that approved the last State budget. It was you who approved it and allowed the National Health Service to continue to degrade as it has been degraded. Don't look at me, don't look at this bench. Look behind you, for those who have approved the State budgets in recent years. [[PS Member Protests Hortense Martins.]] In the last hospital ranking, Mrs.Deputy, the Hospital da Luz and the Hospital de Vila Franca de Xira lead in clinical excellence. Look at them and tell them that they don't deserve our effort, that they don't deserve our commitment, and that they're "bad guys" who only serve to suck our taxes. But do that out there, looking at the Portuguese all, and not just in here, where it's easy to talk and say that the audiences are good and the private are all bad. This is the reason why the PCP is in a descending line, because no one already recognizes it with serious value to defend all Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u178	You now have the floor, for a request for clarification, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u179	Mr President, Mrs Paula Santos, thank you very much for bringing this very important issue to debate and for having almost touched me. It scares me whenever the PCP comes to defend and speak of the SNS as if it was truly concerned about people who use health services and not with the protection of their electoral interests and of health professionals' unions or with their obsession with the omnipresence of the state in everything that is public services, as if it was not possible to provide good public services with recourse to others other than the State. Madam Member, if the PCP was really interested in defending people, I would ask them if they would not prefer to choose their own doctor and their own hospital. If he was really interested in the well-being of people, he wondered if they would not prefer not to have a waiting list, and could resort to other public hospitals, private hospitals or social hospitals.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u180	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u181	I would ask these people, if they were really interested in them, if they didn't like to know how the more than 2000 non-COVID deaths were caused during the pandemic period, that this fantastic SNS, that you so much gaba, couldn't solve. If I was really interested in people, I would ask them if they didn't like — all of them and not only public officials — to have an ADSE (Instituto de Proteção e Assistencia na São Dência ) or a similar subsystem that will come to exist, as we defend, in the Liberal Initiative. Madam Member, if the CFP was really interested in people's well-being, I would ask them what they liked to have and let them choose. I ask you when the PCP will stop having this single dish menu, so expensive to the communists and, apparently, also to the socialists.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u182	You have the floor to answer, Mrs Paula Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u183	Mr President, I also welcome Mr André Ventura and Mr João Cotrim de Figueiredo for the issues they have raised. Let me tell you that, indeed, it is not surprising that in the Assembly of the Republic, they always defend, but always, the interests of the economic groups in the field of health.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u184	People!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u185	In fact, that is your role here, not the concern about users and the protection of public health and health, of all. [[PCP and PEV applause.]] [[CH and IL protests.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it's not the SNS that leaves people at the door without assistance...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u186	Just shut the door!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u187	... nor is it the SNS who, when they're inside, sends them away to other hospitals. We can give some examples: it has still become public that there are private hospitals that have rejected pregnant women who had positive COVID-19 test. Who gets them? It's the public service, it's not the private service of the economic groups!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u188	It's not the economic groups, it's the people!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u189	We know, all of you. Members know, that some patients have insurance and make the option for the private hospital and that when sometimes, unfortunately, things go wrong, what the private hospital tells them is: "We're sorry, your ceiling is over. Either pay or leave. Do not keep on seeking. ” It is not the SNS that sends cancer patients to the street and pushes them according to economic conditions.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u190	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u191	The National Health Service deals with everyone and that is why the PCP defends all users, defends access to health for all users, and has been in this sense the work, options and proposals of the PCP in the Assembly of the Republic. See: with our proposal, it was possible to reduce moderate rates in the National Health Service. We believe that they must be eliminated and we are fighting in this direction. With our intervention, it was possible to extend the allocation of transport of non-emergency patients to ensure access to health care. And here we are to defend the rights of those who work, here we are to defend the expansion of the National Health Service, here we are to defend more valences in primary health care, more valences in hospitals. What you did here was just the role of defending the interests of the economic groups.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u192	People!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u193	For that role, they don't count on the PCP! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u194	You have the floor, to ask for clarifications, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa of the CDS.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u195	Mr President, Mrs Paula Santos, I would like to ask you if you know how much you spend on health in Portugal every year. Perhaps you do not know, but I say to you, Mrs Deputies: it is EUR 18 billion per year, of which EUR 10 billion comes from the State budget and is essentially spent on SNS and EUR 8 billion are paid directly by people in other providers. That is how we are doing, and this is the starting point that the honourable Member cannot deny. Almost half of health expenses are no longer done in the SNS today. To believe that the State is able to finance all health expenses is an illusion and it was good for the PCP to be understanding what people's numbers and choices dictate. Having said that, the SNS has in fact 41 years of life, it provides an essential service, as the numbers show, it must deserve a careful investment, it must have autonomy of management, but it must also have a responsibility for health outcomes. To believe that only the SNS can, or better still, give an answer is to condemn people to endless waiting lists, such as those we have today. I give you the example of a citizen who recently told us that he was informed by his hospital that his external consultation of vascular surgery, which was marked for October 12, 2020 at 10 a.m., was marked for March 7, 2022, at 10 hours and 40 minutes. I think a tenderness that, by 2022, is established as the consultation will be at 10 hours and 40 minutes — there, yes, huge efficiency of the SNS. It's two years of waiting, Your Honor!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u196	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u197	Is this what you think it is to give good service to the citizens? Madam Member, if your concern was, in fact, giving this good service to those in need of health care, it was not possible to understand...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u198	Madam Member, I call your attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u199	I will finish, Mr. President. There is no way to understand that the social sector and the private sector have to be part of the equation, and it is not to feed these sectors financially, it is to respond to people. But clearly, Mrs Deputy, I know that for this I cannot count on the CFP. When it comes to helping people, instead of unchecking any model that doesn't serve anyone, we can't count on the PCP. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u200	You have the floor, for a request for clarification, Mr José Luís Ferreira, of the ENP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u201	Mr President, I begin by greeting Mrs Paula Santos for bringing us a matter as important and always as the SNS situation is. In fact, the National Health Service has, over time, proved to be absolutely decisive in fulfilling a constitutionally consecrated right, which is the right to health. Even those who have always looked aside to the SNS now recognize—though perhaps they are opposed—their importance and their decisive contribution in responding to a public health crisis with the size and severity of what we are experiencing. As we could see, without surprise, at least for us, it was not the private sector, guided by the logic of profit, which provided the necessary answers. The pillar of the emergence of the actions that have been imposed and that continue to be imposed was and is the National Health Service and its professionals. The greatest respect that can be given to these professionals is not to ignore the difficulties they face in this pandemic, many of which have been living for many years in their daily work in the SNS. As we know, and as Mrs Deputy mentioned from the rostrum, the SNS has been the target of structural underfunding, but also marked by the closure of nearby health units, the degradation of facilities, the shortage of family doctors and other specialties, the insufficiency of a significant number of nurses, the small number of the most diverse technicians, among so many other issues. Of course, these situations are reflected in the speedy response given to the citizens, who are often faced with huge waiting lists. Therefore, we also believe that it is essential to provide the SNS with more professionals and more means so that these professionals can act safely and that citizens can obtain the answers they need in their right to access to health care.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u202	Sir, I call your attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u203	It is very easy to support governments that close services and cut into the National Health Service and then come here to say that the National Health Service does not respond. What we think, Mrs. Member, is that, since there is no strengthening of the National Health Service, it will have many difficulties in responding to Portuguese access to health care in the future. I ask you whether or not you share this view. [[Congrats from PCP MP Bruno Dias.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u204	You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mrs Hortense Martins of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u205	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we welcome Mrs Paula Santos for her intervention and, above all, for bringing to us today the issue of health and, in particular, the issue of strengthening the SNS. The SNS is already 41 years old and the Portuguese today cannot imagine Portugal without the SNS. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The SNS is undoubtedly one of the greatest achievements of our democracy, created by António Arnaut, and some wanted to stay out.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u206	We've seen it!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u207	This pandemic challenge clearly showed that health, in particular the SNS, was and continues to be a fundamental response and, in some cases, the only one, as the honourable Member very well exemplified. But I also want to say that, for the fight against the pandemic, everyone is summoned, so that this is an effective fight and that we can win. The SNS is, above all, its professionals, and I point out that we have already hired more than 1300 professionals. The SNS must also continue to be a key tool in combating inequalities. In the matter of access, it made all the difference when the moderate rates, rather than being cut, as we did here, in the Assembly of the Republic, with the contribution of the PCP and the left, were increased, making access difficult. We lowered the moderate rates. We want more access to health care, not only to hospital care but also to primary health care. We recognize that the priority to the pandemic has been a little relegated — it has had to be so — the questions of non-COVID assistance responses. Of course, the government has also identified this issue and has, through incentives, allowed this care activity to be a priority today, with more financial means, more human resources, more laboratories, more drug reserves and more vaccines to deal with influenza and winter.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u208	Madam Member, I call your attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u209	I will now finish, Mr President. Therefore, Mrs Paula Santos, I would like to ask whether the CFP is available to continue this path of strengthening the SNS and also to give it more sustainability. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u210	Again, I give the floor to Mrs Paula Santos to respond to the three requests for clarification. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u211	Mr President, I thank Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, Mr José Luís Ferreira and Mrs Hortense Martins. I begin by replying to Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, saying that if health in our country was how the CDS defends and proposes,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u212	It was great!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u213	...what we would actually have was a health with all the conditions for those who had economic possibilities and then a public service, let's say, destitute for those who had no resources.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u214	That's what you're saying!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u215	What we stand for is nothing like that. What we stand for is equality in access, quality for everyone and not only for those who have the ability to pay for access to health. [[PCP and PEV applause.]] [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Ana Rita Bessa.]] Mr José Luís Ferreira, in fact we believe that strengthening the National Health Service is essential. It is necessary and essential to respond to today's demands, not only in the continuation of the fight against the epidemic, the treatment of COVID patients, but also in the need to recover the care that has been left to be done in this period, all delays, and to ensure access to health care, whether in health centres or in hospitals. For this, concrete measures need to be taken in an effective way, with more professionals, with more funding, with more means. What we have recorded—and I am now also taking advantage of it to respond jointly to Mrs Hortense Martins—is that, in fact, with the determining intervention of the CFP, there has been some progress. But, Madam Member, there is still a long way to go, and the government has fallen far short of what is needed to effectively strengthen the National Health Service. I am referring to one of them: in the State Budget, the creation of the national laboratory of medicine, which is still to be implemented, is fundamental to ensuring accessibility to medicines, and also fundamental in this period to reduce the external dependence of our country. But more is needed. More workers are needed than those who have already been hired. The rights of these workers must be guaranteed. It doesn't make sense that they are hired for four months, they have to be integrated,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u216	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u217	... they have to have an effective bond, they have to have a decent career, so that workers want to stay in the National Health Service and want to develop their career. Mrs Deputy, in order to recover the activity, the consultations, the surgeries, the tests that have been left to do, for example, there must be the reopening of the health extensions. There are health extensions that are still closed. If, in the initial phase of the epidemic, it was necessary to organize the National Health Service to respond to an unexpected situation and that no one was expecting...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u218	Madam Member, I call your attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u219	I will finish, Mr. President. It is not understood that the activity at primary health care level has not yet been resumed, and these are essential care and, as we often say, the gateway to the National Health Service. That is why what the CFP advocates — I will even finish, Mr President — is the need for an emergency plan for the National Health Service, with more means, more workers with rights, more financial means, more equipment, more conditions for the National Health Service to have this capacity, necessary to meet the requirements that are laid down today. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u220	I repeat the political statements, I now give the floor to Mr. João Pedro Gonçalves Pereira of the CDS. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u221	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At the end of last Legislative Session, also as a political statement, I presented here the availability of the CDS to contribute, now in scrutiny, now in addition, to the urgent economic recovery of the country in the pandemic period. Here we are, gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is regrettable that I do not find this availability in the Government, to whom, of course, the primary responsibilities of this same mission lie. I have read and listened carefully to the presentation of the so-called Strategic Vision for the Recovery Plan we are debating here today. And in all this process, I was reminded of an old socialist rule: the socialists, when they do not want to talk about what they have not done, launch great debates on what they will never do. In addition to the already usual tendency to think in the form of decades, I also took note of the need of Eng.o Costa Silva to present the more than 1000 contributions he received from Portuguese citizens with an ideological framework that belongs more to the PS than to those citizens themselves: «a historical defeat of ultraliberal ideas», Mr. Engineer said. I found it, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is truly extraordinary that a plan which is proposed to think of 10 years is still wrapped up in the rhetoric of the previous crisis, which is fortunately overdue, as it should be, with the effort of all Portuguese. Honestly, I do not remember hearing in this House a single voice defending that the solution to overcome this new crisis is to nullify the role of the State in the Portuguese economy or society, as I do not even remember hearing in any of the previous legislatures. It is strange that, in view of the scale of the challenges we are facing today, you know. Government members and other consultants insist on preferring rhetoric to reality, ideological tug to the sustained contribution or focus on concrete vision.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u222	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u223	You will not deserve the Portuguese a little more than that, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen? I believe so. Reading the proposals of the Strategic Vision, however, is not the result of this "great victory of the State" which the author so much appreciates. Let's go to two quick examples. It defends the document, and I quote, "the financing of social support programmes of proximity with partnerships between municipalities and..." — imagine! — '...the third sector' and, moreover, Mr. Members, please see « the opening of ADSE to all assets with employment ». This is not a program of opposition. Please note: it is the plan for the government to implement, which is socialist in presentation, liberal in imagination and unreal in realisation. After all, Mrs. and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it seems that it is not just the state that will save us. As serious as the narrative apparatus, I have also detected another tradition of the Socialist Party in recent times. Reading the Recovery Plan, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, there is something in sight: it is planned, but it is not budgeted, and everything was imagined in large, but no big accounts were made. in an ideal world, of course we are all in favour of greater public investment, the same as this government has led to historic minimums since before democracy, and we are also all in favour of strengthening the social state, the same as this government has never taken as ever before in Portugal. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, how are we going to have this whole state? With what economy? How are we gonna get there? With what budgetary health? Like SNS? With what funding? Good intentions are the full state, as we all know. But what good is it to promise the world when the minimum can't be fulfilled? What is the point of making documents on reindustrialisation when neither the lines of credit to keep companies that are in fact fully operational? What's it worth talking about in infrastructure when our trains are bought in the scraps of Spain, with asbestos in the carriages, and we haven't even removed the asbestos from our schools? I'm afraid, ladies and gentlemen. Members, that the Strategic Vision of Eng.o Costa Silva has the same destination as the Agenda for the Decade of Prof. Centeno: an authentic void. We are faced with a total inconsistencies between the electorate and the negotiated in the corridors of Parliament, an absolute inertia of a government that is forced to simulate political crises to approve budgets, without showing any initiative. Along the way, here we are, gentlemen. Members, to discuss an imaginary country, which only exists in the paper, not to mention the real country, where the crisis, which really arrived, does not resolve with consultants, documents chained and ideologically flowered. They have the CDS in opposition, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, to discuss the real country and not the propaganda sessions. I finish as I began, remembering the old socialist rule: when the socialists do not want to talk about what they have not done, they launch great debates about what they will never do. They do so in the face of an unprecedented pandemic and crisis, it's just another irresponsibility. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u224	The Bureau shall record six entries for requests for clarification. I ask the honourable Member how he wishes to respond.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u225	In two groups of three, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u226	All right. I begin by giving the floor to Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, to request clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u227	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr João Gonçalves Pereira, thank you very much for bringing this issue to today's debate in the Chamber. Yesterday, in the public presentation of the final version of the Strategic Vision for the Recovery Plan, we had the opportunity to have again not the presentation of a technical or even strategic document, but a blatant session of propaganda full — in addition to isoteric citations — of praise to ministers and prime ministers, high praise to para-ministers, I suppose, and still this challenge of recognition of historical defeats I no longer know of who, ultra-liberal who do not want state or public services anywhere. I don't know anyone like that! It was certainly not for the Liberal Initiative that it wanted a small state, yes, but strong, and public services of the highest quality, not necessarily provided by the State. In addition, it repeats those who were already the defects of the initial version, a catalogue of ideas on nine strategic axes — nine! If anyone manages nine priorities in their lives, I'll take his hat off. But that was not enough and added one more, because someone in commerce and tourism was not represented. So there have been 10 strategic axes and let me tell you, as far as tourism is concerned, that I know relatively well, the ideas are not good. Then, from the beginning to the end, we have a compliment on statism and directedism, which is a horrendous myopia. The country—and the world, so to speak, will enter a phase where the imagination and creativity of all will not be enough to find the new ways that will be necessary for progress and development. And what does this plan do? Hand over everything and something else in the hands of the state! And today, here in the Commission — a hearing which is said to have been rejected by the Liberal Initiative two months ago, because there were no advisers in this Parliament, there was no knowledge of what, and now the PS urgently calls for the same adviser to be heard! — Prof. Costa Silva has come to say that the public service is neither prepared nor has the habit of following up and implementing the political decisions that are taken. So in view of this, Mr President, the question is this: do you not think that this strategic vision is more and more similar to a poetic mirage, which is doomed to decorate any shelf and have zero practical effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u228	To make requests for clarification, Mr Bruno Dias of the CFP has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u229	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr João Gonçalves Pereira, first of all, we must not fail to note that the form and course that led us to this document, with the Government making use of an external personality, say a lot about the episodic and casuistic character to which the strategic planning capacity of the Portuguese State has been shot over the years. It is well in view of the results of the policies of so many years, that the CDS has, in fact, always been an enthusiastic advocate, the dismantling of the Public Administration, the devaluation of its services and disrespect by its professionals. It is not surprising that it is in this logic of external resource that the CDS feels at home, and then the options that differ in concrete. But it is not surprising that the CDS seeks to keep the assumptions and options that have conditioned and prevented national development and that are at the root of inequalities and injustices that mark society and territory. Mr President, it is not enough to set out proposals and objectives, some of which have long been signalled by the CFP, which are in itself not answered. The crucial question is how and in the service of whom these objectives should be achieved. It is necessary to know whether the necessary increase in wealth produced is also associated with its fair distribution, or whether, on the contrary, it will contribute to an even greater inequality in the distribution between capital and labour; whether the exploitation of natural resources aims to integrate it into a sovereign strategy or to open a new field of monopolistic and predatory resources; whether the investment announced aims to boost the national economy, the productive apparatus, the creation of employment with rights; or whether it is just a step towards draining millions of euro from Community funds to national and, above all, foreign economic groups. The solution to national problems does not go through a right-winged or makeupd policy of half a dozen ideas that should have been implemented for a long time. Background options must be made by taking lessons from the current situation. Portugal needs to put in place a real development programme, not with the criteria and agendas chosen and guided by the great powers of the European Union to serve its interests and the interests of multinationals, but, above all, to serve the national interest, to serve the people and the country. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u230	In order to make requests for clarification, Mrs Filipa Roseta of the PSD has the floor. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u231	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, indeed, on public works, housing and infrastructure, Prof. António Costa Silva gathers everything in a single 140-page document. But the truth is, everything was already said. It was all reaffirmed, they said again... but what's missing? We need to do it! We need to do it!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u232	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u233	This government demonstrates a severe failure to execute as there is no memory. And what I ask you, Mr, is why you think that this government has such an inability to implement. I think about it! What's the reason? It's just that it's not a lack of money. See: in the housing they had 800 empty public buildings, they had 50 million euros budgeted and they executed 7 million euros! And how many fires? Zero, zero! It wasn't always like that. Eng.o Ferreira do Amaral, in one year, designed a programme with Community funds that produced 2000 fires a year in the Government of Cavaco Silva! It wasn't always like that! It is the Higher Council of Public Works that says that there is a lack of planning and organization capacity, lack of programmes, lack of management capacity. This is a nearly afflicious, repeat, almost afflicious disability!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u234	Call Dr. Vítor here he explains!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u235	Prof. António Costa Silva said this morning that the problem was the lack of capacity of the Public Administration, which I reject. It is not public servants who lack qualifications. They're not, because I know them, it's not that way, that's not the problem. Do you know what the problem is? The problem is a bureaucratic culture, which is increasing more and more, which creates difficulties in selling facilities, opening doors to corruption,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u236	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u237	... and that every time there is a problem and there is a programme that wants to run opens up a 'green way', which is what is being prepared to do now with the funds, to walk faster than normal people! This, yes, is the cornerstone that we have to destroy if we really want to end corruption. So, honourable Member, I would like to know your opinion and I would like everyone to declare, as enemy number one, the bureaucratic culture that is increasing, for everyone, destroying people, businesses, economics and justice in our country. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u238	To reply, Mr João Gonçalves Pereira has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u239	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for the questions that have been put to me. I begin by replying to Mr. Deputy of the Liberal Initiative, João Cotrim de Figueiredo, telling him that the country heard Prof.António Costa Silva — in fact, he unfolded in interviews — saying that he has a vision, that he has a plan. We just don't know what António Costa's plan and vision is! What matters is knowing and discussing is what this plan and that vision will go forward and what it will stay behind. That's what matters. There is a lot of propaganda, we are already used to it, but there is a difference between the initial presentation and yesterday's presentation, and that is why I am telling the honourable Member: now there is a lot more state, state and more state and lack of entrepreneurship, open economy. So it seemed that the plan had a certain direction and suddenly made a gait inversion. With regard to the PCP Member Bruno Dias, who seems to have put a sort of tape « Avante »...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u240	That's fine!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u241	You have made a statement here, you have not asked questions, so I have no answer to you, because you have not asked me any questions. You have understood to do so and it is legitimate to make a statement here.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u242	Maybe, you didn't understand, that's the problem!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u243	As for the questions put by Mrs Filipa Roseta of the PSD, well, the failure to implement this government is known and I would say until it is a trademark of the Socialist Party: she announces a lot, she does a lot of propaganda, many reflections, many debates, but when the time comes for execution we have a problem. That is how it is, whether in the government or in the municipal chambers. In fact, it is in a municipal chamber that we both know relatively well, the City Council of Lisbon. But what's important? It is important that the Prime Minister, right here in Parliament, come to say what his vision, his plan, will remove from the same matter and what has been presented. It is also important that the ministers, sectorally, come here to Parliament, tell the country exactly what they will do and by what means, so that the country will realize if we will have Costa & Costa & C, or if we will have two coasts, of turned back. The country needs to know this and we wait for the debate with the Prime Minister. And we will certainly also have the Ministers in Parliament giving proper explanations. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u244	I repeat the questions, I give the floor to Mrs Isabel Pires of the Left Block. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u245	Ask a question he understands!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u246	Mr President, Mr President, first of all, it is obviously necessary to say — we have had this debate this morning — that the political responsibility for managing any crisis and presenting strategic visions for the country obviously lies with the Government and that the Left Block has worked and that the debate must be held. But we would like to ask a question — and you will finally realize that it is indeed a question — which has to do with the obvious absences of this strategic vision that has been presented, in particular work and wages. And it is no wonder that the CDS, in its speech, did not talk about these two matters either, nor did it mention them even this morning in the hearing to Prof. Costa Silva, because we know what the political and ideological practice of the CDS is, whether it was government or opposition, about how to deal with crises. It is not too much to remember that the income recovery policy that has existed in recent years and that has enabled us to overcome the crisis we were going through has been decisive so that we could have an economic recovery as we have seen in our country. Therefore, when we are currently discussing an apparent plan for a ten-year strategic vision to overcome a crisis that has already begun, we identify a significant ideological difference not only between the Left Block and the strategic vision of Prof. Costa Silva, but also the CDS, which has chosen to make these matters, work and incomes, the great absences of this debate. We know that from speech to practice there is always a very large distance and the question we have to ask the CDS, and it is an effective question, is this: what is, after all, the vision of the CDS for work, the recovery of income, the necessary changes to the Labour Code,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u247	Madam Member, I call your attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u248	...who still crushes thousands of workers in our country? What, after all, is the vision that the CDS has for this? Or will you continue, as you have done in recent years, to propose the implementation of policies that crush our country's workers, to crush wages and income? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u249	Also to make requests for clarification, I now give the floor to Mr Carlos Pereira of the PS. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u250	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr João Gonçalves Pereira, I thank you for bringing this matter so relevant to the debate in the Assembly of the Republic, in fact, which the Socialist Party considers absolutely essential. You did so at the hearing of Prof.António Costa Silva, and the honourable Member will also have the opportunity in the committee to dialogue and debate with Mr. Minister of Economics and Mr. Minister of Infrastructure the issues you consider relevant. This is how we believe that this plan should be made. I must say, in truth, that I was not surprised by the speech of the honourable Member, because he had already heard it this morning in the Committee on Economics, Innovation, Public Works and Housing. It was a speech clinging to ideological prejudices, as it was seen, completely ignoring reality, this reality. But the prejudices and convictions he has shown there do not solve any of the problems we have today. And this was very evident in your intervention, which has had no trace of new initiatives, new ways to recover the economy and what kind of document to present within the framework of the European Union to have access to the resources that are absolutely essential. In fact, Mr President, let me tell you something, this document has had a coordinator, it is true, Prof. António Costa Silva, who said today, in the Committee on Economic Affairs, that he has heard many entities: business associations, trade unions, solidarity associations and the government as well. Therefore, let us say that the way in which you addressed the plan does not only offend Prof. António Costa Silva, it does not only offend the PS, it does not even offend the government, it offends the entire civil society, which has been participating in the debate on the Recovery Plan. In fact, this Plan was in public consultation and was in public consultation until 20 August. And in this public consultation we know that many other civil society entities have participated. Look, Mr, I will tell you: I myself participated as a citizen, as a Maderian.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u251	Sir, I call your attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u252	My question is this: did the CDS participate in this public consultation? Did you write anything about it? Did you contribute that we could have a plan that, eventually, in your head, in the head of the CDS, would be more appropriate? Mr President, there are only two ways: either the CDS says that it wants to contribute, whether it wants to participate, or the CDS does what it has done, which is the burnt land policy, must be why it is in its position. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u253	To reply, Mr João Gonçalves Pereira has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u254	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I begin by thanking you again for the questions that have been raised. Mrs Isabel Pires asked how the CDS is used to dealing with crises. I answer you, Mrs. Member : you are used to taking the country out of bankruptcy! That's what the CDS did, even in the last crisis we had, along with the PSD. You took the country out of bankruptcy! [[Protests by the Member of the BE Isabel Pires.]] Therefore, Mrs Deputy, unfortunately, we are called upon to deal with many crises and to resolve them, crises that are caused by the left. So, unfortunately, we have experience in this matter, see there!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u255	That's a good result!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u256	Ask me what economic model we stand for? What we stand for is capitalised companies and, of course, well-paid workers. That's obvious. It's even in the Christian-Democrat matrix of the CDS the importance of work, the importance of income for people, for families... but, finally, I realize that the Left Block doesn't know or pretend that it doesn't want to know and doesn't want to know. After that, Mr. Carlos Pereira managed here in two minutes, practically, not to say anything, but in the end he put a question there. But you should certainly not have listened to my speech this morning, because perhaps you have removed from all the other benches — I am talking about the parties, except the Socialist Party, the Government party — in that I was even quite laudable from Prof. António Costa Silva's initiative, someone who, from civil society, with an unquestionable curriculum, from the point of view of his activity, has placed himself at the service of the country. I can agree or disagree with the document, because I think it's a lot of State and I should be less there, but I can only praise that which is the availability of a citizen to give his vision, his plan, asked by a Prime Minister who, by the way, had no vision or plan. In fact, this also revealed a certain humility, because, having no vision or plan, neither of him nor of the government itself, then the Prime Minister had to turn to someone, an external consultant. It's life! Therefore, I can only praise the participation of civil society. But the honourable Member says: "Well, but I have participated, I have even been one of those 2000 who participated, because of Madeira." Sir, you have not heard! Have you noticed? Leu? Maybe you haven't read it. Have you seen the references to Madeira in the document itself? Maybe it wasn't heard. Mr President, the CDS has always been a constructive logic, presenting proposals. I still said today that there should be common denominators, that what is at stake is the national interest and that we should therefore have more meeting points than differences in what are long-term matters, 10 and 20 years old, at the level of the infrastructures and the investments we have to make.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u257	Sir, please finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u258	I will finish, Mr. President. The CDS said that this morning, and I repeat it now here, Mr. Deputies or you have not heard or noticed. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u259	For a political declaration, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u260	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The presentation of the State budget for 2021 will emerge in a particularly complex period of our common life, perhaps the most complex since we live in democracy, which is especially important if we remember that the country has already needed to be assisted by the IMF (International Monetary Fund) on three occasions. The COVID-19 came to change our daily lives irremediably and raised uncertainties about our future, uncertainties, these, which in recent times have called on the State, in its different dimensions, to be present with timely measures, but which will now require a categorical response in the most varied domains. Never as now have citizens need as much of the state and never as now will the state have such a preponderant role to take. And it is precisely about one of these roles that we want to talk about today: the role of the State for young people and for what is due them. Recently, the National Youth Council presented a package of measures with which it intended to contribute to highlight legitimate concerns regarding the recovery of the country's economic and social life and also to young people and the context in which they are integrated in Portugal. This document reinforced the idea that COVID-19 has brought additional problems to young people, at the level of health, especially mental health, with an increase in anxiety levels, aggravated by an increase in risk habits, such as sedentarity or low sleep quality, but also at the level of questions related to education and employment, where difficulties were noted, respectively, in accompanying aulasonline or lack of access to study material and the reduction of working conditions, complaining that young people of longer working hours, work excesses, lack of safety and protection conditions and even abuse of telework. The document also revealed some aspects that are particularly worrying — some of the respondents, approximately 4 %, showed that they had been in a situation of great vulnerability, with difficulty in meeting their basic daily needs — and concluded that there are currently young people living below the poverty line in Portugal. This reality cannot leave us indifferent to any of us. For the NAP, there is no doubt that the present moment requires the implementation of public policies aimed at young people, thought, created and invested precisely for them. We need to have assertive responses to access to education, work and housing, but also to culture and the right to the environment. And we need to do so already, with robust and structured responses and not with the same spent, outdated and obsolete solutions of the past, which made, even before the health crisis and with the economy in recovery, the young unemployment rate was higher than that of the general population, with the young people most employed having fragile working ties that did not offer any prospects for the future. We cannot continue to tell young people that the best we have to offer them are unpaid or with such low values, and financed only with public money, which, even if they are satisfied with maximum professionalism and competence, always end up in the ranks of unemployment. The same is true of our researchers who, at the end of six years, are forced to go to other countries, wasting Portugal's full potential and investment. We cannot continue to be a country where endless contracts are after all the empty pot at the end of the rainbow, to which young people can never, in fact, reach, even being the most qualified generation ever. We cannot ask young people to continue to delay the dream of a home or the construction of a family. by doing so—we have no illusions! — we continue to fail as a state, we continue to fail as a democracy. That is why, in the discussion of the coming budget, we will continue our policy of proposals aimed at young people, such as those that created the extraordinary mechanism of regularization of debt for non-payment of propines in public higher education institutions, approved at the past session, or the strategy for the integration of young people NEET (not in employment, educator training), which, unfortunately, was plunged into the last State budget, or which we presented last week, in order to ensure vocational training, within the framework of the IEFP (Instituto do Employment and Vocational Training), appropriate to the qualifications and expectations of young people who benefit from it. But today, in this political statement, there is a measure, in particular, that we would like to highlight at this time: that of the supply of future generations. It is illusory to think that there is a future, if we are not able to ensure the sustainability of the planet, on the one hand, and also, of course, the rights of future generations. These issues cannot be mere proclamations. It is not long before we create good policies for today's young people, if they are to hypothesize their lives and those of those who will follow them in the future. Unfortunately, history has been responsible for demonstrating that there is always a long-term concern, that the immediacy of policies is not compatible with the needs of the citizens who are yet to come. It is precisely to ensure that today's policies are aligned with tomorrow's expectations and respect future generations that the NAP will present this initiative, aiming at the creation of the supply of future generations. This figure has the potential to be a State body to which citizens can turn to to defend their rights, freedoms and guarantees or their legitimate interests, if and when they feel their future threatened, the situation, which is already more than strongly traced, either by scientific evidence, or by young people who manifest themselves on the streets. This is a proposal which is aligned with the principle of intergenerational justice, which has to be present in all policies, and which does not preclude or limit current policies, so we hope that it will deserve broad consensus in this House. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: The next days will be particularly challenging for all of us, but because it is the young people who will also bear the results of our decisions, it is fair that we have a careful look and special care with them. It is fair for them to be able to participate in the construction of the responses to the health and socio-economic crisis that we are living in and, no less important, it is fair to listen to their demands with regard to the climate crisis, which, we do not forget, does not cease to exist. In conclusion, it is also fair that a significant part of the funds from the European Union and the State budget are also affected to meet their needs and that it is possible to guarantee them a better future. This is an investment that cannot be postponed all the time! [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u261	Mrs. Deputy, four Members have signed up. Members to send you requests for clarification, so the Bureau would like to know how you want to respond.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u262	Two to two, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u263	All right, Mrs. Deputy. You have the floor, then, first of all, to make your request for clarification, Mrs Maria Begonha of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u264	Mr President, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, first of all, I would like to welcome, of course, the issue which the NAP brought here, in its political statement, which should, in fact, occupy more time in our political debates and in this Parliament, because it is always at the heart of the challenges of the country, and also of this pandemic, precisely because of the difficulties that the younger generations and youth are experiencing at present. For the Socialist Party, as you know, the response to the most vulnerable and the most unprotected in this crisis is a priority. Young people, generations not only more qualified but younger in the country were the ones most affected by this crisis, in fact, the second that live in a short period of time. And contrary to what the CDS said here today, when it was right to manage a crisis, it did not solve bankruptcy, defer paths and lives of an entire generation. We share what Mrs Deputies said because, for us, the difference in the response is precisely in the role of the State and public policies, centered and responding to the specific problems of young people. Therefore, cross-border challenges, prior to the pandemic, such as the precariousness to which young people are particularly exposed, that of youth unemployment, that of access to housing, that of access to democratic knowledge for all, were priorities before this crisis. The crisis has exacerbated more democratic access to knowledge and has also increased the problem of access to employment. That is also why we have had answers and we have approved programmes today, and in force, to encourage the fight against young unemployment and the recruitment of young people and that we continue with a priority of public investment in housing, which is also for young people. This does not mean that the challenges are overcome, it just means, Mrs Deputies, that, of course, as we share the idea of the state being focused on the priorities of young people, we also have to recognize that we have made the way, year after year, to achieve democratization of opportunities and to combat deferred and affected paths.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u265	Madam Member, I would like to draw your attention to the time spent.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u266	I therefore conclude by asking only a few more objective contributions from the NAP, since the Government is of course already working on this matter. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u267	You now have the floor, too, to ask for clarification, Mr Alexandre Poço, of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u268	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, effectively today, when we look at the situation of youth in Portugal, we realize that she is no longer « to scratch », she is truly « to scratch ». And we can say that in several areas, where, unfortunately, the Government of the Socialist Party is missing, does not respond to the call. And it does not respond to the call when it comes, for example, to have the capacity to present a single proposal, a single response to thousands of young people who are losing their jobs, at the rate of young unemployment being over 25%, well above the European average. But there is also a situation that has no response from the current government, when, at the end of five years, we continue to hear the same promises, the same objectives, the same plans recycled in housing policies, either for access to Gate 65 or for the new housing policy agenda. Therefore, Mrs Deputies, the PSD Parliamentary Group believes that at the moment the young people most needed a response to their challenges, particularly in access to housing — and let us remember that the Portuguese youth are those who become emancipated at European level later — the government has disappeared. Therefore, the proposals and ideas he presented in the rostrum will have to have a concrete effect. Will the NAP help to stop the bleeding of young unemployment? Will the NAP cause the government, after five years, to start implementing youth housing policies? Or the NAP will continue to be committed to the socialist policies that make my generation, with which the younger generations of this country look to the future and nothing more can see than a funnel, a funnel where their opportunities are lost and where it is increasingly difficult to be young. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u269	Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u270	Mr President, I would like to thank both Mrs Maria Begonha and Mr Alexandre Poço for her questions. With regard to the issues that have raised to me, I should like to strengthen my concern about combating poverty, so that we can somehow recover and break the cycles that have been repeated and that prevent young people, particularly those who are in a situation of greater socio-economic vulnerability, from poverty and are able to ensure access to more stable jobs by combating precariousness. As far as employability programmes are concerned, of course all measures are welcome and we accept them. It is important that the State is taking this path, but we must step up these same measures, from the outset, by placing on certain incentives, such as the exclusiveness of doctors, which we have already discussed in this House and which is just an example of a measure that can somehow promote the acquisition of talent so that we do not lose an investment of excellence training in our country, which often ends up going abroad. I recall that in the last State budget, we saw a measure that was of the most basic justice and that had to do with a strategy for the professional integration of young NEETs, who have no employment or access to education. We need to do more and we hope the PS is available to dialogue. We will be discussing a new State budget and we hope that they will be available to follow the proposals that the NAP will always make in this area. On the issues which you have raised, I shall be obliged to remind you that Portugal has already attended three IMF interventions. The successive governments that have alternated in power have not given investment-level responses in structural areas for the country, such as housing, education and the National Health Service. Therefore, Mr President, the NAP has not been exempt from doing its part, proposing various measures to provide answers, whether within youth, or in the other dimensions of the crisis that affects our country. What we were hoping for, and what we also hope to mention, in the next State budget, on the part of the PSD, was that the proposals did not deserve a breed of lead and rejections such as those we have seen in previous budgets, whether in the State budget or in the Supplementary Budget. Therefore, Mr President, I give you back the challenge you have put here, hoping that this time the PSD will not reject the NAP proposals, particularly in this area. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u271	Mr Luís Monteiro, from the Left Block, has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u272	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to congratulate Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, of the PAN, for bringing up a subject which is rarely discussed in the plenary, but which has a brutal impact on the lives of millions of people from the newest generations of our country. We are talking, precisely, about a period of history, of a generation that has already experienced two crises, that has already had difficulties in its academic journey for more than once and that has structural problems that are not solved, from housing to student housing, from access to health to education as a right, of employment with rights and of all the individual rights that have been one of the struggles that the Left Block has brought, since it exists, to Parliament. If it is true that the State's relationship with youth is as much better as its capacity to respond to the guarantees of very concrete material rights, it is also true that the Assembly of the Republic and governments have an essential role in this. If we criticize — and well, because we follow this view — that we cannot continue in a logic of public policies for youth, which is a little more than that, it is also up to us to do an analysis and to have a critical view on the creation of one more supply, one more office. Exactly for what? We will not obstruct any proposal that increases our proximity and proximity to a group of people who have a very important historical and social role, but at the same time today we need to discuss the SNS, we need to discuss public higher education for all, we need to discuss housing. These are the themes that will bring together the younger generations of a more dignified future and the role of the State in the 21st century, and that is the debate we have today.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u273	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u274	Mr. President, I'll be done. In the Assembly of the Republic, democracy is divided into two fundamental visions. On the other hand, one who thinks that the State is actually a monster that at nothing will help a greater capacity of young people become emancipated; and on the other hand, that is where we are, the vision of a stronger and more capable state to respond to the crises of capitalism that we live. Madam Member, we need to understand where the NAP is in this debate. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u275	Mrs Alma Rivera of the PCP has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u276	Mr President, first of all, I would like to greet Mrs Inês de Sousa Real and the PAN for bringing this issue to debate. This is indeed an extremely important issue, because the problems affecting youth are many and are serious. The country needs youth and youth needs new recipes and new policies. What we have had — the degradation of schools and of education itself, mistreating teachers and employees, the elitist of higher education, the resignation of the State from school social action, the resignation from the aim of ensuring free, democratic and quality public education — are old policies and do not serve youth. What young people are voting on in terms of work is unemployment, total deregulation of hours, lack of security, false green receipts and temporary workers. The precariousness of work and the precariousness of life are past policies that have to be overcome. Do we want a new policy for youth? We do. So it is necessary to ensure housing for the new generations. Young people have to have decent homes, stability and wages to build their life plan and to form a family if they so desire. That's how you fight poverty. Do you need to look at the lessons of the pandemic? Yeah, I have to. So, the country needs youth to move forward and youth needs other policies, which happens to something that many do not want to say because it is the exact antithesis of what they have done. It is the importance of work and the need to value professionals from the most diverse sectors, to hire young people and to guarantee them rights. If it weren't so easy to say good-bye, sirs. Members, if they had not brought down the proposal of the CFP to ban redundancies during the pandemic and if they had at the same time supported small businesses instead of supporting large companies, young unemployment would not be 25 % today. The country needs an iron health, a SNS with means, to respond to the mental health of the new generations, especially as a result of this period. For the CFP, it is more than clear that the way is to comply with the Constitution, every day, and therefore I would like to ask the honourable Member whether this time we are counting on the NAP to put an end to the tips. Mrs Deputy, will you take the necessary options to value public school, invest in national production and the creation of quality employment, reverse the serious standards of labour law and effectively combat precariousness? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u277	To reply, you have the floor of Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u278	Mr President, I would like to thank both of you. Members for the issues they have left and, of course, for the contributions in this matter, which are always welcome. With regard to the analysis and critical vision that each one of us has in these matters, and in particular responding to Mr Luís Monteiro, particularly on the question of supply, I recall that this is a figure of high confidence of the citizens, of historical genesis, who has a fundamental role, because it is impartial and independent, in guaranteeing their legitimate interests. in this sense, because, despite claiming for their rights, we feel that young people are not always heard or there is not always the follow-up and investment necessary to give satisfaction to their claims, it is indeed necessary to have a figure that can in some way represent them and give voice to their concerns. But there are, of course, topics on which we share the same concerns that Mr Schleicher has listed and which Mrs Alma Rivera has also referred to, particularly in the area of combating poverty. It is with great concern that we continue to see the vulnerability of this part of the population, and that it is essential to fight structurally what continues to prevent access to housing, education, health and decent professional valorization, from a remunerative point of view, so that we are not constantly weighing the dreams and the future of present and future generations. It also added the right to the environment. In fact, the State Budget and the Economic Recovery Plan will be key moments to ensure that Portugal makes a policy turn on sustainability for economic development that is not based on extractivism and productivity that undermines the quality of life and the interests of present and future generations. There is also a debate that we have stolen from, which is the sustainability of social security itself, which may call into question what, when necessary, is not only a support for young people as well as for those who are unemployed and can have access to training aimed at vocational integration. With regard to the intergenerational pact and also to the issues which Mr has put on the tips, of course, higher education must be tending to be free and proportionate to the socio-economic needs of each person. The NAP will be available to continue to defend this same system and, above all, a quality education system that does not go hand in hand with absolutely obsolete views, which not only start at youth but also at the youngest age, and which often call into question educational content, such as the issue of education for citizenship. Therefore, we have a long way ahead if, in fact, we want to protect our children and young people, in particular, as we have talked about in this debate, because there is not only the future as the right, which is obviously due them, if they do not have an invoice that they will not have to pay in the coming decades. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u279	For today's last political statement, Mr Ventura has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u280	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Today we enter one of the most difficult phases of the fight against the pandemic and, when we do so, we are called to appreciate and acclamation a programme, presented with great pump and circumstance, which is no more than a pseudo-sufficient praise to the members of this government. We heard the author of a renewal programme commend Government Ministers, as if he were his employee, praise the Prime Minister, as if he were his official, when the country is going through the most brutal crisis in its history, perhaps the most brutal crisis in our lives. In the middle of this, Antonio Costa calls doctors cowards. On or off, on or on, the meaning is exactly the same. It is the sense of deep repentance and disappointment with a Prime Minister who offered them the Champions and now says that they were cowards in the fight against the pandemic. Nothing worse. In July we had nearly half a million unemployed. Half a million! The scenario that comes here will be the most disruptive of our stories and all—I repeat: everyone! — we must be aware of this responsibility. In some regions, such as the Algarve, there is more than 200 % unemployment for a government that looked at the side and forgot the existence of the Algarve as a region, forgot the existence of the Azores, forgot the existence of Lisbon and forgot the existence of the North region. And now, with the unemployment to gallop, they go hand in hand to ask for the subsidies that the same middle class has always paid and continues to pay, in this country of hand extended to Europe. In the middle of this, the « Ronaldo das Finanzas », Mário Centeno, is no longer in this rostrum, nor in the gallery of the government, in order to be able to respond to the greatest crisis in our lives. It is in Banco de Portugal, a « golden reform ». More: when you came out to defend someone, imagine who it was? He came out in defense of the New Bank. The so-called "Ronaldo das Finanzas", the man who would solve all our problems, the magic magicians, the great guide, the great socialist comrade left us alone to walk through an unimaginable crisis. In the middle of this, the homes live the greatest crisis in their history. The chaos in the Portuguese homes is not comparable to that in any part of Europe, and today we know that the survey sent to social security was done before the pandemic began. The Government that said it sent all the clarifications to the Public Prosecutor's Office is the same thing that it forgot to say that the investigation was done on 11 March, when there was not yet a pandemic and when there was still absolutely no case recorded in homes. What a shame of government! What a shame of government, which, when we need it most, is taking refuge in political crises in the hope of leaving. But his friends don't even let him go, because right now they're so afraid of elections as the cat has water. So no one has any doubt that while these benches are going to churn the Budget, those who have always been attacking the government and saying "we want more teachers, we want more doctors, we want more nurses, we want more ties, we want more suits, pants and shoes, we want everything", when the day of the vote, they will be there to enable the government of Antonio Costa. Not because they like António Costa, but because they are afraid to go to the elections right now, knowing exactly what the sense of vote would be for the Portuguese. If you don't do it and have that courage, we'll be here to praise you. I have the biggest differences with Dr. Ferro Rodrigues. He's not here with us today, but he could be. Today, I would give you a hug, a meaningful hug, because you had the courage to, at the end of a meeting at the closed door, or rather, semi-closed, say: « The government has learned nothing from chaos in the homes». Congratulations, Dr. Ferro Rodrigues! I, who one day rose up against you, am giving you this big hug through this screen. I hope you are seeing it because, in fact, you had the courage that other socialists did not have: to play at the point when it was supposed to be touched. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u281	I have waited so many months, so many months for such a plan against corruption that the Minister of Justice was going to present! And there he presented. See, yesterday, we finally got to know the reality of this plan. I quote the Minister of Justice : « The big point is the lack of data and the lack of a harmonic system of a preventive and repressive dimension ». That's what was missing, actually. Looking at what we need, this is where the solution was. We were deceived so long and in these simple words was the solution to corruption! But what could be expected from the party that, one day, was led by Eng.o Guterres, or that had great names, like Armando Vara's? Oh, my God! We couldn't wait much longer. In the midst of this and the absence of a plan against corruption, we have a President who says we have to hurry: we have to hurry Pedrogão, we have to clear Tanks, we have to clear the New Bank, we have to clear the family business of government members and now we have to finish football. We must make sure of everything, because there is nothing to decide but complicity with the government, which is beginning to wear out this political system. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have failed in response to this crisis and the reason why we have failed is what numbers are there to show us, pointing to the greatest recession of all time, the highest level of unemployment of all time and the greatest disruption of all time in the social fabric. We failed those who needed us the most, the moment they needed us the most. That is why, because we have all failed, the Arrival will enter today, in this House, a complete proposal for constitutional review, in order to finally be able to refound the State and look at it as the State that effectively needs: a more free state of political empires; more free of political customers; a State that is not afraid to combat and effectively corruption; a State that is not afraid to say that there are minorities who live at our expense and that we will not tolerate.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u282	Mr President, I would like to draw your attention to the time available.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u283	I will finish, Mr. President. This will be delivered today and will be the first step, so allow the other parties, to refound the state. I missed this.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u284	Not us!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u285	With no requests for clarification, we move to point 2 of the order of business, which deals with the assessment of Petition No 644 / XIII / 4. a (António Manuel Lima Coelho et al.) — Justice for military, GNR and Maritime Police professionals, together with Bill No. 486 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Integral accounting of the service time of careers and special bodies of the Public Administration, in general, and with the Resolution Project No. 484 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends that the Government correct the mechanisms for career progression of the armed forces, maritime police and Republican National Guard professionals. To present the bill, Mr.António Filipe has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u286	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to greet the subscribers of this petition, whose first subscriber is also in the gallery to attend this debate. I wanted, in your person, to greet all the subscribers. This petition concerns an injustice that has not been repaired to the special careers of the Public Administration. Indeed, with the freezing of public administration careers, many employees have been damaged, unless the time of service provided for more than nine years has been recorded, more precisely, for nine years, four months and two days, if I am not mistaken. That time actually passed, but to the government it was as if that time had not passed. of what happened, also due to a very intense struggle by many professionals—it is fair to highlight the struggle waged by teachers for the recovery of their time of service— were recovered only two years, nine months and eighteen days. Therefore, several years of service were still to be accounted for in relation to the recovery of careers of these professionals. The CFP has always considered that past time cannot be forgotten. One cannot pass a sponge, make a blackout, as if those professionals had not been at work, had not worked during those years and had not had the fair legal expectation that this time would be effectively accounted for in the progression of their careers. This petition was signed by members of special careers, in particular, of the special careers of the military of the Armed Forces, the professionals of the GNR ( Republican National Guard ) and the professionals of the Maritime Police. What the CFP proposes, taking advantage of this petition, is what it has always defended, in relation to all special careers: that the law enshrines the principle that the time of service provided should be effectively accounted for and have consequences on the progression of those careers, whose progression is dependent on the course of time. We believe that this principle must be enshrined and that, from our point of view, it must not exceed six years, it must be the subject of trade union negotiation, with the careers which have trade unions. With the careers, which is the case of the military, who do not have unions, this negotiation must be done with the socio-professional associations legally constituted. in this sense, the PCP has dragged with this petition a legislative initiative that, being approved, will effectively solve this problem, as is that of the most elementary justice. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u287	For the presentation of the draft resolution, Mr. João Vasconcelos, of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u288	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, I comply with the more than 5000 petitioners of Petition No 644 / XIII / 4. a (António Manuel Lima Coelho et al.) — Justice for the military, professionals of the GNR and the Maritime Police, in particular his representative here present. The Left Block considers that this petition makes all the sense and is very fair. from there we presented a draft resolution accompanying the petitioners' claims. over several years, with governments, both PS, PSD / CDS, the country assisted successive pay cuts and freezes in career progression, based on an austerity strategy that eliminated labor rights, promoted precarious work and led to impoverishment to the generality of the Portuguese population. The disastrous consequences of these policies were also felt within the military family and security forces, as well as in other special bodies of the Public Administration, whose careers were frozen over several years. This injustice would be to come to an end from the beginning of 2018, with the stipulation of defrosting careers and the progression for all employees of the Public Administration. But in Decree-Law No. 65 / 2019 of the previous government, there was another inequity: a total of almost nine and a half years to recover, recovery of service time did not reach three years. It was also a horrendous injustice and an authentic stoning in the stomach, practiced by the PS government, with right-hand support, well-meaning by the public administration workers, in this case, the military, the professionals of the Maritime Police and the GNR, and other professionals integrated into special bodies, such as teachers, judicial officers and others. The Left Block has always been against and continues to be against this blackout in careers and continues to defend the full counting of service time. It is necessary to end this injustice, which has increased discrimination and injury for these professionals. This is an example of the career overstepping by professionals with fewer years of service and many other absurd situations, because it is not considered, for example, the questions of the reservation. All this undermines unity and causes deep divisions within the military and security forces, which aggravates their discontent and can negatively affect their tasks and operationality. In addition, these armed and security forces become increasingly permeable when they fatten the influences of the extreme right, the racist and xenophobic forces. It is up to the Government to take steps so that this does not happen, beginning with satisfying the demands of the petitioners and extending this wish to all the special bodies of the Public Administration. We therefore present this draft resolution so that the Government can correct the mechanisms for progress in the career of the Armed Forces, the professionals of the GNR and the Maritime Police. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u289	Mrs Cristina Jesus of the Socialist Party has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u290	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We are debating the Bill No. 486 / XIV / 1. a, from the PCP, the Resolution Project No. 484 / XIV / 1. the left block, which have just been presented to us, and Petition No 644 / XIII / 4. the claiming justice for the military, professionals of the GNR and the Maritime Police, using the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group to greet, in the person of Mr. Sarge-Mor António Lima Coelho, who is here, in the galleries, about 5000 citizens who have subscribed to this petition. Both the PCP bill, or the Left Block resolution project, or this petition affect the progression of careers in the Armed Forces, the Maritime Police and the Republican National Guard, claiming the full accounting of the time of service of these careers and special bodies of the Public Administration. We recall that defrosting careers and progress for all employees of the Public Administration were regulated by Law No 114 / 2017, putting an end to the injustice of a long period of wage cuts and career freezes. The Government has committed itself, even if not included in the Government Programme, to defrosting careers and has fulfilled what it has promised. The definition of the model of recovery of service time of careers integrated into special bodies, where military members of the Armed Forces, the Maritime Police and the GNR are included is provided for in Decree-Law No 65 / 2019. The reasoning for the recovery of service time is based on the system applied to teachers, based on the recognition of 70% of the standard time module for the change of pay position. What does that mean? It means that the military who saw their career frozen from 2011 to 2017 will be counted 70% of the standard time module of their position. Frozen time accounting dates shall be processed in three phases: June 2019, June 2020 and June 2021, thus avoiding remunerative investment. As Rapporteur of this petition and after hearing the petitioners in the National Defence Commission, in particular the National Sergeants Association, the Association of Guard Professionals, the Socioprofessional Association of the Maritime Police, the Association of Armed Forces Officers and the Association of Squares, I checked the specificities of the career of the Armed Forces. It was mentioned by all who want the full recognition of service time rather than wage retroactivity. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, estimated petitioners, the recovery of the time when careers were frozen would represent a large financial effort for the country and the implementation of such a measure would have a financial impact on public accounts that does not appear sustainable. In addition, there is a question of fairness before other employees of the Public Administration. The solution found by the Government is therefore the possible point of balance between the specific nature of the career of the Armed Forces, equity, the financial possibilities of the country and the budgetary responsibility, which is fundamental to ensuring the good health of the national public accounts. Finally, Mr President, I would like to leave this moment to thank and highlight the excellent contribution of the Armed Forces to the national containment effort of the COVID-19 pandemic. Their ability to adapt, their diversity of action and always high readiness leave us calm and proud of the Portuguese Armed Forces, either in Portugal or in international scenarios, where their performance has been repeatedly praised. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u291	Mr João Gonçalves Pereira, from the CDS-PP, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u292	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First, I greet the 5016 petitioners who have signed this petition asking for justice for military, GNR and Maritime Police professionals. I want to do this on behalf of the person of the first subscriber, who is here with us today, Sergeant Mor Lima Coelho, President of the National Sergeants Association. As a result, the PCP and the Left Block also presented initiatives and, therefore, I will divide my intervention into three parts, beginning with, of course, addressing the petition. They refer to the petitioners that « there is unfair, discriminatory and unworthy treatment for the military of the Armed Forces, the professionals of the GNR and the Maritime Police when they do not see the consequences of the freezing time in their careers progress ». The CDS well understands its motivation and even the very state of soul of petitioners, since they were also victims of the propaganda machine of the Government and the Socialist Party, who promised and announced something that they later failed to comply with. When they promised to start in 2018 the process of defrosting careers, they created the expectation that this thawing would be total and did not create discrepancies between careers, nor did they differ between the defrosting model, or even great differences in special careers. However, this was not what happened and it was not taken into account the specificity of the careers of the military, the militarized forces or the Maritime Police itself. in this sense, it is of all justice that they feel deceived and wronged by both the government and the Socialist Party. However, the PCP has scheduled, by drag, a bill that achieves all special careers, i.e. does not discriminate between military and non-military. The question that arises, and must be put, is how much this costs. How much does this cost? In the light of this concrete petition, in a specific matter, the CFP wants to open the door to everything and everyone. I don't know if we're not going to be here for a huge exaggeration, until we don't know what financial impact that would have on the accounts. Turning now to the draft resolution of the Left Block, this, although not ignoring, in its explanatory statement, "the need for the full recognition of the time of service frozen to the military of the Armed Forces and the Security Forces", which then proposes, in the deliberative part, is not exactly that. What the Left Block proposes is to be voted on as a resolution, i.e., what it says in the exhibition is not exactly what appears in the deliberative part, where it refers to the correction of career progression mechanisms. The question I ask is in what terms this is done, which is in particular this.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u293	Sir, pay attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u294	Mr. President, I'm really going to finish. We therefore believe that this Left Block initiative is about to pass a blank check to the government and that we are not in a position to pass any blank check. I also think that the Left Block itself has no intention of this. Mr President, thank you very much for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u295	You now have the floor for an intervention by Mrs Olga Silvestre of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u296	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Women and men who are members of the Armed Forces, the Republican National Guard and the Maritime Police deserve the recognition of the Country and Government for their spirit of mission, their dedication and commitment and also for their exemplary work on behalf of Portugal and the Portuguese and which has now been decisive in the fight against the pandemic of COVID-19.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u297	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u298	The petition we are debating here today and, by drag, the bill of the Portuguese Communist Party and the draft resolution of the Left Block are initiatives that, according to their authors, intend to correct certain injustices in the mechanism that was found to account for the time of service of the special careers of the public function, after the freezing imposed by the troika. I am here to welcome the more than 5000 petitioners, in particular their first subscriber, Sergeant Mor Lima Coelho, who claim justice for military, GNR and Maritime Police professionals and who intend to amend Decree-Law No 65 / 2019, who came « to mitigate the effects of the freezing between 2011 and 2017, in careers, positions or categories in which the progression depends on the course of a given period of service delivery ». This law decree defined a set of rules on the way in which time of service was recovered, whose counting was frozen in those careers in which its progression depended on the course of a certain period and which had more than one category. The petitioners understand that the diploma has discriminatory and harmful treatment, when treating their careers in the same way as that of the teachers, when there are obvious differences, due to the specificity of the function. The military career is regulated by the Military Statute of the Armed Forces, in conjunction with the General Law on Public Works, which provides for special rules that are not applicable to teachers. As an example, the military are deprived of the right to strike. The differences are also significant in terms of the definition of categories, so the application of this decree-law can create hierarchical and disciplinary problems among the military. at the same time, as the petitioners refer to, the application of this diploma has a negative influence on the situations of transition to the reservation, either in those that occurred during that period and which were not covered by this diploma, or in those that are to occur in the future, by the application of this mechanism of recovery of service time. The PCP bill, which seeks to fully account for the time of service of careers and special bodies of the Public Administration, argues that a collective negotiation procedure should be used to ensure that full accounting of service time. In the case of military careers, the CFP understands that the negotiation with a view to achieving the definition of the time limit and the way in which the recovery is carried out, resulting from the counting of the time of service, should be carried out with the respective socio-professional associations. For the PSD Parliamentary Group, this is a matter for the Government to resolve, in meeting the fair aspirations of women and men of the armed forces, the Republican National Guard and the Maritime Police.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u299	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u300	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this is a matter that has a great impact on the lives of all the military and even on the military structure itself, and must be treated with special care. This is the time to look objectively at the consequences of the application of the above-mentioned decree-law to the above-mentioned careers, and therefore the PSD Parliamentary Group is available to work together with the Government to find a formula that makes it fair to the petitioners' claims and that is equitable in the recovery of service time, because it cannot be treated equally what is different. It is clear to us that it is necessary to find a just and worthy solution for the Armed Forces, for the professionals of the Republican National Guard and for the Maritime Police. We are aware that Rome and Pavia were not made in one day, but we are also sensitive to the petitioners' claims. That is why, and according to the idea that we advocate the valorization and dignity of the military career, we understand that this is a plan that has to be achieved, so there is the will of the government, for it is worth more late than ever. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u301	Mr José Luís Ferreira of the ENP then spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u302	Mr President, first and foremost, on behalf of the Green Parliamentary Group, I would like to greet the thousands of citizens who have given shape to this petition, as well as the various associations that have promoted it. Therefore, I greet the petitioners, the National Association of Sergeants, the Association of the Guard Professionals, the Association of Armed Forces Officers, the Socioprofessional Association of the Maritime Police and the Association of Squares. We therefore have a significant set of associations and thousands of citizens who claim justice for military, GNR and Maritime Police professionals. In anticipation, I would like to say that the Greens fully follow the concerns and objectives expressed by the subscribers of this petition. In fact, and as the rest is remembered by the petitioners, Decree-Law No. 65 / 2019, by not allowing to correct the consequences of the freezing time in the progression of their careers, came to impose discriminatory, unfair and even unworthy treatment on the military of the Armed Forces, the professionals of the GNR and the Maritime Police. Now, this discrimination takes place despite the State Budget Act for 2018 that has led to the recognition of the defrosting of careers and the progressions to the entire universe of public administration workers, which, remember, were about a decade ago without knowing any progression in the career. That is, the State Budget Act for 2018 recognizes the defrosting of careers and progressions, but Decree-Law No. 65 / 2019 has reduced this defrosting from almost a decade to only 2 years, 9 months and 18 days. In other words, this decree of 2019 ended up imposing or trying to legalize a real blackout regarding the time of service provided by workers in careers, positions or categories integrated in special bodies. In this case, with this gross injustice promoted by this blackout, there are in particular the military, the professionals of the security forces and services, but also the teachers and educators, the health professionals, the justice professionals and out there. What is required is, first of all, to meet what was established in the State Budget Act for 2018, i.e. to materialize the recognition that was made by this law regarding the defrosting of careers and progress for all employees of the Public Administration. It is therefore necessary to define the deadlines and the form of realization of the remuneration valuation associated with the counting of the service time of careers, positions or categories integrated into special bodies. Therefore, in this sense, the Greens follow up, as they did in the past, all initiatives that seek to remove this injustice installed.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u303	Mr António Filipe, you have the floor, but you have only one and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u304	Mr President, as we are about to close this debate, I would like to clarify some misconceptions. Of course, this is a petition signed by citizens, by military personnel of the Armed Forces, by professionals of the GNR and the Maritime Police. It was his initiative, as petitioners, that prompted the presentation of the PCP bill that we are discussing today, but the PCP project does not concern only these careers, it concerns all the special careers. In other words, when we want to support and give satisfaction to the demands of these petitioners, we believe that the scheme should apply to all workers in the special careers who have been effectively damaged by that long blackout of more than nine years of freezing their careers. Mrs Cristina Jesus refers to the costs and says that this is not possible because of the costs it will entail. Well, these costs existed and those who paid them were the workers!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u305	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u306	In other words, it was the employees of the special careers who, over the course of these nine years, had to bear the costs of freezing careers and also the costs of cutting allowances imposed on them for several years by the governments of the PSD and the CDS.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u307	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u308	These workers paid these costs and did not stay nine years younger than the others, the time passed for all people, also for public servants. It is fair, therefore, that what they have paid, with their living conditions, in these years, be redeemed to them. We do not propose that it be immediately, but that there be a negotiated phase-up which will allow it to be satisfied.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u309	Mr António Filipe, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u310	Mr. President, I will finish. Finally, Mrs Olga Silvestre is telling us that there are careers that have to be treated differently. Mrs Deputy, each career has its own specificity, but there should be no treatment for anyone here. All have been harmed, all must be compensated for the damage they have suffered! [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u311	Mr. João Vasconcelos, you have the floor. It also has 1 minute and 24 seconds.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u312	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, as mentioned in the petition, there is unfair, discriminatory and unworthy treatment for the military of the Armed Forces and for the professionals of the GNR and the Maritime Police. We understand that by virtue of Decree-Law No. 65 / 2019, this injustice also struck other workers of the special bodies of the Public Administration. But, given that this petition was presented here, we did not wish to extrapolate the sense of it, although we consider that all workers in this situation receive this unworthy treatment. In fact, the PSD comes to talk about costs and the PS says the country can't stand: sometimes it's the troika, sometimes it's the financial situation, sometimes it's the pandemic, sometimes it's this and that. But what has not been missing, throughout all these years, was many million for the bank, for the bank, for the vigarist bank and for the private concessionaires of PPPs (public-private partnerships), which deploy the country in many million euros. It is necessary to see this with an eye to see, of course, and that is why the Left Block presents this draft resolution, so that the Government effectively corrects those mechanisms of injustice, those discriminatory mechanisms, those unworthy mechanisms that affect the professionals covered in this petition, but we understand that it must go much further, because there are no privileged citizens in relation to the same matter. This petition deserves such treatment and, I repeat, we did not want to extrapolate beyond what the same refers to. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u313	We shall therefore end the discussion of the second item on our agenda. We turn to Petition No. 13 / XIV / 1. a ( Transparency and Integrity) — By adopting a national strategy against corruption, along with Resolution Projects Nos 550 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government develop and present to the Assembly a national strategy against corruption and 546 / XIV / 1. a (IL) — Effective protection of complainants. You have the floor to present the draft resolution of the PAN, Mr André Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u314	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by welcoming the presence of the civic association Transparency and Integrity, which, in addition to being the dynamizer of this petition and tomorrow completes its 10. the anniversary is also an organization that, with its hard work, makes a unique contribution to the fight against corruption in our country. This petition is clear in its objectives: that Parliament should adopt a national strategy against corruption. What are concrete, thoughtful measures and an integrated logic that are able to combat corruption and deepen transparency in our country. The NAP could no longer be aligned and, therefore, today, it proposes that the National Strategy for Combating Corruption submitted by the Government be subject to Parliament's assessment and vote so that there may be any improvements to the initial proposal. Such an important document cannot be closed in the Council of Ministers, must be subject to a comprehensive debate in the House of Democracy and must be able to welcome the opinions of the various political forces. Let us hope that this simple proposal deserves the acceptance of all political forces. But unlike the government, for us and the petitioners, the fight against corruption cannot be turned off from the need to deepen transparency and a logic of effective prevention of conflicts of interest within the framework of political office holders. This has been our position since the first day of this legislature, sometimes accompanied by others alone, but never leaving those that are the proposals that we consider necessary to the country. It is not understood how the country continues to have the so-called « visasgold », considered by the European institutions to be a source of corruption. The NAP proposed here the revocation of this instrument and, it is frightening, with the votes against the PS, PSD, CDS-PP, the Arrival and the Liberal Initiative this proposal was piped. It is not understood how the Political Accounts and Financing Entity, which has complex tasks in controlling the financing of the parties, continues to have no appropriate staff framework due to bureaucratic obstacles to the government. The NAP proposed here that these barriers be overcome, but the PCP and PS dropped the proposal. It is not understood how the Transparency Entity, which has been set up by law for more than a year to monitor the interest records of public office holders, continues to exist in practice. The NAP has proposed here that the necessary funds be given to this entity so that it can be in full office this year, but this proposal has been dubbed with the abstention of the CDS and the votes against the PS, PSD and PCP. from these examples it is clear that in this legislature Parliament is not doing everything it can to deepen transparency in our country. We must be able to take immediate action with immediate results. in this legislative session which now begins, the NAP will continue to bring forward concrete proposals and will do everything necessary for the pending legislative processes to move forward. We must be able to approve the NAP proposal by the end of the month in order to ensure a new model for the appointment of the members of the Board of Directors of Banco de Portugal which guarantees greater transparency and credibility to this institution. We must be able to approve the NAP proposals which provide for the establishment of a legislative footprint mechanism, the regulation of lobbying, the possibility of political office holders and high public positions to declare that they belong to the Masonry or Opus Dei in their register of interests and to prevent, as is already the case with judges, from taking office in social bodies of professional football clubs. Finally, I would like to address the Liberal Initiative, which recommends that the Government create a robust and effective system for the protection of complainants. Of course, we will follow this proposal because, for us, the complainants have a key role to play in combating corruption. However, this proposal calls on the Government to exercise the powers of the Assembly of the Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u315	I would like to draw your attention to time, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u316	I give Mr Cotrim de Figueiredo good news: the NAP will enter, even during this month, a status of protection of the complainant, which will ensure the reinforcement of the anonymity and the safety of the complainants, as well as the protection of information by itself, and at the same time will extend the legal concept of a complainant to people who do not have any kind of work relationship with the person or entity in which the irregularities or crimes reported are practised, which are the only ones that have protection in the current legal framework.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u317	That's what's missing!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u318	To present your draft resolution, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u319	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Yesterday was the International Day of Democracy and no one spoke of it, nor did anyone speak of one of their greatest enemies: corruption. Corruption is a form of erosion of the public power that produces in people a huge resentment and distance from the public thing, violating rights and freedoms in front of the public. If we are a rule of law where, supposedly, there is no one above the law and we are all subject to the same rules, how is it acceptable that, in the 21st century, Portugal is still: a country where the party card or political links are more important than personal merit? A country where economic agents themselves admit that political links are fundamental to successful business? A country that does not leave Europe's tail with regard to combating corruption, corruption with economic costs of billions of euros every year, twice as much as we spend on health or triple what we spend on education? Is a country where corruption complaints continue to be filed for lack of human and technical means to obtain evidence? The fight against corruption must be a permanent struggle in modern democracies. Not to relentlessly fight corruption supports the growth of populist, authoritarian and enemies of freedom parties and regimes. It's like feeding a pest or adding water to the mud. Combating corruption is not only a moral obligation and it is more than an obligation for economic reasons: it is above all an obligation for those who value the healthy functioning of democracy and justice, because there is no one without the other. For all this, the Liberal Initiative welcomes the petitioners and thanks the Transparency and Integrity Association for all the work it has done for our democracy and, today, it presents another initiative which reveals the importance of this fight, in this case a proposal for the Government to create an effective system for the protection of complainants in line with the European directive on the subject, which continues to be transposed. Maybe it's this one! There are already a number of rules scattered about the complainants in Portugal, but it matters to reconcile them and complete them in a single policy. This is essential for the early detection of crimes of corruption and for the improvement of the investigation of proceedings and their condemnation rate.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u320	Sir, I call your attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u321	I shall conclude, Mr President. A citizen who, according to the law, decides to denounce crimes of corruption must have all the protection on the part of the State and not be confronted with a terrible dilemma: to help justice or to fear for his own security. Do you want a practical citizenship lesson? They show the younger ones who are at risk to defend democracy deserves recognition and protection.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u322	Mrs Mónica Quintela of the PSD has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u323	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We welcome the relevant initiative of the 8502 subscribers of the petition calling on the Assembly of the Republic to adopt a resolution with a view to adopting a national strategy against corruption. And the government even seems — it seems! — tuned to this purpose, because it recently approved the National Strategy for Combating Corruption for the period from 2020 to 2024, and the public consultation of that legal diploma is under way. It seems, I said, as you know, that the European Attorney-General has been set up, which is an independent body, with all that it implies, and to whom it is responsible to investigate and exercise criminal action in the harmful economic and financial crimes of the European Union. The European Prosecutor's Office aims to be an effective response to the tone of Member States in combating fraud and corruptive behaviour affecting the financial interests of the European Union, that is to say all of us. Ladies and gentlemen. The independence and professional experience of the judges who integrate it are essential. For this reason, the candidates judges were evaluated by a committee composed of 12 personalities of unquestionable international independence and competence. The overwhelming majority of the countries respected this selection and told the Council the candidate first evaluated by that European committee. However, and unfortunately, the Portuguese Minister for Justice did not indicate the winning candidate for the quality and fitness criteria for the performance of the office, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, you have indicated instead a prosecutor who is close to you and who will have your political confidence.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u324	And very well!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u325	That's a good example!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u326	And this is absolutely reprehensible because the government has allowed itself, ostensibly, to preserve meritocracy and to indicate someone of its confidence in the exercise of a post which is not of political confidence — which is very serious, because what is at stake is the investigation of crimes of corruption and fraud which may involve, including members of the government itself. The Minister of Justice, more than the woman of Caesar, was prepared to comply with the selection criteria set by the European Union and which do not comply with these conveniences of backers. It is noted that several countries have drawn up a declaration of vote to censure the position of Portugal, which says everything about the indication of the Minister of Justice, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. It will also be, and again serious, only once again, that the so-called Prosecutor is the judge who has been in charge of investigations into the government, how is this the case of the sadly famous smoking gorge? Oh, my God! This is very worrying, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! What the government is saying to the magistrates, the signal it is giving is that if they perform their duties, in obedience to the principles of legality and independence before the government, they will not be able to seek to reach the positions to which they are solely entitled. They're damaged! Mrs. From now on, magistrates are aware that, if they fulfill the position for which they are invested, they will be impaired in access to other positions to which they may be entitled. This, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is the overthrow of confidence in justice and the rule of democratic law. The government can well propagate alleged anti-corruption strategies, which "well preaches Frei Tomás..."! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u327	For an intervention, Mrs Cláudia Santos, of the PS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u328	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Let us now discuss three initiatives that have on the horizon the prevention and repression of corruption and the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group is associated with this plan, welcoming the petitioners and the proponents for the goodness of this purpose. Two of these initiatives relate to the creation of a national strategy against corruption — the petition of the Transparency and Integrity association and the draft resolution of the NAP — and the third, of the Liberal Initiative, relates to the protection of complainants. The claims expressed in these initiatives are already being addressed by the Government, with the presentation by the Minister of Justice of a National Strategy for Combating Corruption 2020 - 2024. This strategy has been adopted in the Council of Ministers, is in the process of public consultation and we can therefore state that new steps are being taken to ensure that our country corresponds to the claims, which we now consider, of more transparency and less corruption. It is an ambitious strategy, which the Minister of Justice has presented, in the plurality of new solutions to training, prevention, detection and repression. In training, it is innovative in the context of early education for integrity, proposing that, in the discipline of citizenship and development, there are contents that discourage corruption, in basic and secondary education. With regard to prevention, compliance programmes are put in place in compliance with public sector regulations, but also in a very demanding way, among private companies of a certain size. As for detection, new solutions are proposed for complaint or collaboration. Finally, in terms of repression, it is a matter of speed and effectiveness, for example, of agreements on the sentence, which have already existed in the German Code of Criminal Procedure since August 2009 and which have become the dominant procedural mechanism in the context of corruption and related crime. There are also very significant developments in the sanction plan, in particular with an accessory penalty applicable to public agents convicted of corruption, in accordance with the Government Programme. This is not yet the time for detailed analysis of this strategy, but there is something about it that must be, from now on, underlined the very, very big trait: it is a strategy that understands that it is not at the expense of shortening or neglecting the fundamental principles on which a rule of law is built that fights corruption. There are issues that have become good reflections for « mermaid corners ». And we need to be careful with a certain melody, according to which it may be necessary, to combat corruption, regardless of some guarantee solutions of our criminal justice. "To great evils, great remedies," some of us say today, with a sweet voice. The problem is that much of what has been presented as a remedy—a certain model of award-winning delation, in particular, with the premium to be given by someone who is not a judge, at an early stage of the process and without contradiction—is more for poison than for medicine. We know that corruption must be combated precisely in the name of the defence of democracy and the rule of law and never against the rule of law. We know that corrupt public agents undermine the credibility of the state. We know that corruption diverts from public safes to private pockets amounts that could make the difference in our public schools, in our public hospitals—and never as today have we had such an accurate understanding of the importance of our public hospitals and our public schools. We know him well. We all know that corruption is devalued and serious, but we also know that democracy needs to be protected against certain populist speeches. And I am sorry to say, but today Mrs. Monica Quintela brought here a speech of this kind, in which she never spoke of the anti-corruption strategy and preferred to talk about an issue which, in the thesis, would involve Mrs. Minister of Justice,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... failing fully what the Minister has decided, in accordance with the precise deliberations of the High Council of the Public Prosecutor's Office, which has classified, firstly, the Prosecutor José Guerra,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u329	You know that's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u330	...and also omiting the law of the Republic which provides in detail the terms in which such appointment takes place.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u331	That's a lie! It was a war!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u332	As I said, we also know that democracy must be protected from certain populist speeches, which call for corruption to win votes, even at the expense of the destruction of pillars of the rule of law. Today we are familiar with the experience of countries — countries with which we have ties — that have fallen in the midst of the speech of right-wing populists who have been presented as anti-corruption judges. The knowledge of the experience of these countries and the suffering to which their peoples have been voted will, hopefully, be a powerful antidote to certain populist discourses on corruption. There is no less corruption when the guarantees of the rule of law are amputated. in these scenarios, what is only more corruption and less rule of law.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u333	Madam Member, I call your attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u334	Against that, we shall-we shall intransigently beat-CL in this House. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u335	Mr José Luís Ferreira of the ENP also spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u336	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The first words are for, on behalf of the Greens, to welcome not only the thousands of citizens who have subscribed to this petition, but also the Association Transparency and Integrity, which has dynamized it and promoted it and which, through this important instrument of democratic participation, brings the discussion so important and unfortunately continues to be so current, that it is the fight against corruption. In fact, the fight against corruption is something that is necessary, even in order to improve our democracy, making it more transparent and assigning more rigour to the management of the public, a fight to credible the institutions of our democracy, but also a fight to defend and affirm a culture of democratic responsibility. If it is true that this House has been taking some steps in the legislative plan to strengthen this fight, it is also true that other steps will have to be taken, not only at the legislative level, but also at the level of the technical and human resources of the criminal investigation bodies, which are decisive in this fight, because, often, the investigating entities are confronted with lack of means, especially at a time when we find a great deal of sophistication of the instruments used for the practice of corruption crimes. With regard to the legislative plan, the Greens highlight three subjects which are of decisive importance in the fight that we all recognise is necessary to stop: first, say no to the sights, whether they are seen gold or visasgreen, Mr André Silva ;...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u337	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u338	... second, the creation of the crime of illicit enrichment; and third, the need to strengthen the fight against economic and financial crime through offshore centres. Indeed, the transparency that should guide the management of the public thing, and above all the accountability of the people who have this mission before the citizens, requires, in our view, to go further in the area of illicit enrichment. As for economic and financial crime through offshore centres, these mechanisms are the image of the injustice prevailing in the system. Tax havens serve only for large economic groups and great fortunes to create highly developed mechanisms, to escape taxes or to proceed with money laundering and even hide other crimes associated with corruption. We know that a government cannot impose the end of tax havens outside its borders, but we also know that any government can and should have the obligation to channel efforts, with the other States of the European Union and also with the international organisations it is part of, to seek measures and find solutions to end tax havens. Therefore, in our view, any strategy to combat corruption must not fail to put an end to these maneuvers, which only serve for some to continue without paying taxes and to hinder or even prevent the investigation of crimes associated with corruption.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u339	I now give the floor to Mr Telmo Correia of the CDS-PP for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u340	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to note that, from our point of view, the object of this petition makes all the sense. I mean, does the country need a serious, strong and effective strategy to fight corruption or not? from our point of view, the answer is « yes, the country lacks this strategy ». We do not think so now and even register with curiosity that, precisely in the Electoral Programme with which the CDS presented itself in the last elections, there was a chapter that had, precisely and coincidentally, the same title of this petition: « By a national strategy to combat corruption ». In relation to this same strategy and, obviously, to its content, we will not all have the same opinion. There is, of course, a tendency that, in the exercise of office, whether in the registers of interests themselves, follows a more prohibitive logic and a certain functionalization, so to speak, and there is a logic to which the CDS adheres more, of absolute transparency, from that point of view, and of rigour in those same records. It was in this perspective that we have put forward proposals which will be discussed shortly. The Government has, as the Socialist Party's Member has said, its strategy in public discussion, we will expect that this strategy will come and we have no problem in which the proposals we want to see scheduled—particularly with regard to lobbying, which various parties have proposals on—to be able to combine, by seeking consensus from this point of view on the registration of interests, activity registration and greater transparency. On the other hand, I do not fail to note that, in any way, this petition and one of the draft resolutions that are under discussion today do not fail to ask the Government to do what it has to do. That is, of course, the obligation of the Government to have a national strategy to combat corruption. Now, if we want to discuss this matter in a serious way, in a rigorous way, without yielding to populism, it is clear that those diplomas will have to be discussed and scheduled briefly. There is a question which has been raised here now, but not sufficiently discussed, which is the following: we can have perfect legislation — perfect legislation does not exist, but we can have very good legislation to combat corruption, we may no longer know how many legislative instruments, but then, as has been denounced by some of the principal anti-corruption officers, whether in the judiciary or in the judicial police, we have what some have called 'a suffocation of criminal investigation', an asphyxiation for lack of means, for lack of human resources, for lack of effective means, for lack of specialized advisers, which are essential, because sometimes while the fight against corruption is advancing in time of gas oil, corruption is advancing at the speed of light. Therefore, it is necessary to have advisors, advisors, specialized ability to combat this same corruption.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u341	Sir, I call your attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u342	I should like to conclude by saying that some of the matters covered here deserve our agreement: the status of protection of complainants, who are obviously not the form of unlawful proof, are something else, and the best status of regret deserves our discussion, but it is important that this discussion be made and consensualized to combat this cancer, which still undermines Portuguese society and much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u343	Mr José Manuel Pureza, from the Left Block, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u344	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would, of course, like to begin by congratulating the Association Transparency and Integrity and also, necessarily, all the signatories who challenge our attention and our work. The fight against corruption will always be a good fight if it is serious and not a mere speech of agitation to throw mud into democracy, it will always be a good fight if it is determined against the powers of the great, who move fortunes in the shadow or sponsor legislative solutions to protect themselves, and not an accusation to the air and without criteria. That is why this is a very difficult fight, because it requires much more than it does, demands all clarity and all political courage. We note that the Government has recently put into public discussion its proposal for a national strategy to combat corruption. More than the name and more than the scale, we are interested in the correct measures proposed. We will make this assessment here in the Assembly of the Republic shortly. But there is something I want to move forward today, on behalf of the Left Block: it is that the gradual opening up to the award-winning delation, even without calling it the name, this gradual acceptance of a negotiated criminal jurisdiction seems dangerous and unable to achieve what is truly decisive for this fight. Instead of importing this logic, the government would have done much better if it had imported a fundamental principle of combating corruption: following the money, i.e. following the money trail. And following the trail of money means criminalizing unjustified enrichment and ending offshore impunity, without subterfuges, because that enrichment and these black tax holes are the faces of the accumulation of corruption money. This requires means, of course, it requires. The delation is cheaper, because of course it is. But the requirement of democracy must be the greatest and the allocation of means to detect the trace of money is the choice to meet that requirement. That is our commitment, the commitment of the Left Block. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u345	Mr António Filipe, from the CFP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u346	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We also understand that the fight against corruption is a democratic imperative and an imperative for a society that we all want more decent and transparent, in which citizens can effectively trust. But we do not subscribe to a certain populist discourse against corruption, which feeds on itself, which spreads widespread suspicions, which, no matter what results might be obtained, would continue to say the same thing, that we have total impunity, that we are a country of corrupt, and that, at the same time that this speech does, abrogates the real causes of corruption and effectively protects the greatest corrupt. And there are experiences, as Mrs Claúdia Santos pointed out, that should make us reflect on this type of speech and its consequences, when this type of discourse can obtain a certain significant popular acceptance, as indeed happened in other latitudes. I could not agree more with what Mrs Cláudia Santos and Mr José Manuel Pureza have just said about the dangers of trying to import into Portugal solutions that are not solutions to combat corruption, but which are elements of the destruction of the democratic rule of law, which, also on behalf of the fight against corruption, is a democratic imperative to defend indefinitely. This certain anti-corruption speech does not condemn the greatest cause of corruption in Portugal in recent years, which was the criminal process of privatization, alienation, scrapping, of the most valuable corporate public heritage in our country; it completely abolishes acquisitions of military equipment with false counterparties, which have read the Portuguese State in many millions; it abolishes public-private partnerships in several domains, which are a safeguard of public money, for the benefit of private interests; it acquits the opacity of offshores; it acquits the collusion between political power and economic power; it acquits the tax arbitration, which is a way of ilivating the biggest debtors of what is due to tax, and there, indeed, this speech does not touch, preferring to throw an an an anathema over a whole of society, calling it "a society of corrupt". Now, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have never and never rejected the serious discussion of legislative initiatives aimed at improving legal mechanisms to combat corruption, we have always done so in this House and in a few years even with some results. We cannot hide that the legislative amendments, including those which occurred 10 years ago, with broad consensus in this House, which have improved the legal regime to combat corruption, have been producing results in this country. I believe that this is undeniable and should be recognized. Fundamental and more important than to propose to the Assembly of the Republic which recommends to the Government proposing to the Assembly of the Republic that the Government should do what it has to do is to comply with the Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic No 91 / 2010, which has a set of recommendations to the Government that are essentially concerned with the allocation of the means of the Judicial Police, of the Public Prosecutor, particularly in the area of expertise, which in fact enables more positive results in the fight against corruption. Mr President, I conclude by saying that we should frame this Resolution of 2010, see what has actually been accomplished and what has not been accomplished, rather than we are making contests of ideas to rewrite what is already written, and well by Resolution of this Assembly. So she was met. [[Congratulations from the PCP, the ENP and Mr José Manuel Pureza.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u347	Mr António Filipe, I would like to remind you of the work that has been done by this draft resolution and its result, it would be good if an assessment had been made. I think that's a good suggestion. For an intervention, Mr André Ventura, of the Arrival, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u348	Mr President, the arrival begins by welcoming this initiative and the Association Transparency and Integrity for the work you have also done for this subject. We live at a time when complaints have to be protected, with the term and with what the law requires, it is true, but they have to be. If we make the reverse way, we'll pay for it in the near future. But the Public Prosecutor's Office must have its means strengthened, because it is not worth having any strategy against corruption if the Public Prosecutor's Office does not have its means strengthened. Mrs Cláudia Santos, let me tell you that the case of the prosecutor who was first and was not appointed to have the validation of the Supreme Council of the Magistracy...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u349	Superior Council of the Public Prosecutor's Office!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u350	...is a great dishonesty. The truth is we have a prosecutor who was better classified and not appointed. Therefore, there is no strategy that goes hand in hand in that regard. We have the same thing as we had in Tankos, a matter in which certain dignitaries could not be heard, and we have the same thing when judges are distracted, which we all know, by this government. Thus there is no strategy against corruption that is worthwhile and conclusive.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u351	To speak again, Mrs Monica Quintela of the PSD has the floor of 43 seconds.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u352	Mr President, I would like to reply to Mrs Cláudia Santos and elucitate her, because I have no doubt she does not know, given that she has stated what she has said in relation to the deliberations of the High Council of the Public Prosecutor. Madam Member, it is public, you can consult the website and see that the criteria of the Supreme Council of the Public Ministry, when you made the selection for the candidates, were established only after the candidates are known.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u353	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u354	That was very serious, Mrs. Member!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u355	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u356	You shall see the minutes and see the statement of vote by Prosecutor Amadeu Guerra on this matter, in which he abstained. It's not about the Prosecutor, but the untransparent form as the appointment took place. The prosecutor who was first, Maria Carla Almeida, with the exception of error, challenged this contest and just gave up the claim precisely not to protect the work, with the condition of the candidates going without any classification. So what you're saying is not true.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u357	That's not true! [[PS Member Protests Cláudia Santos.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u358	Madam Member, I call your attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u359	That's not true, Mrs. Member! This is not to mention the links — they are ‘other five hundred’, will be a matter for another seat — of the prosecutor indicated to other persons and the other indications which have also been made by the Minister of Justice, in particular the Freeport case. But, Mrs. Member, you're not right at all. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u360	And other processes!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u361	Mrs. Members, having completed the last item on today's agenda, Mrs Sofia Araújo has some information to give to the House, which will then be put to the vote. Mrs. Member, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u362	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members has delivered an opinion to authorize Mr José Manuel Carpinteira ( PS ) to intervene in a proceeding under the terms of the Braga Administrative and Prosecutor's Court.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u363	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously, registering the absence of CDS-PP, PAN and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira.]] Before moving to the reading of tomorrow's agenda, the Secretary will make the announcement of the Members present at the video-conferencing session. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u364	Mr. President, I inform the House that you were present via Skype, Mr. João Azevedo Castro ( PS ), elected by the electoral circle of the Azores, and Mr. Sérgio Marques ( PSD ), elected by the electoral circle of Madeira. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-16.u365	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the agenda for tomorrow's plenary session will have seven points, which I shall announce. In the first point, the Resolution Project No 561 / XIV / 1 will be discussed. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government create a social tariff for access to Internet services. of the second point is the general discussion of the Bill No. 474 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Special social support programme for former COFACO workers. Third, the Drafts of Law Nos 483 / XIV / 1 will be generally appreciated. a ( BE ) — Extends the extraordinary scheme for the protection of tenants( 4 ). the amendment to Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March) and 488 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Extends the extraordinary scheme of protection to tenants by 31 December 2021 and defines the deadline for submission of applications for IHRU financial support by 31 December 2020. In the fourth point, Resolution Project No 471 / XIV / 1 will be appreciated. a ( PCP ) — Recommends that the Government reverse the alienation of the New Bank, its transfer to the public sphere and specialized support to micro, small and medium-sized enterprises and, in general, Bill No 499 / XIV / 1. a ( IL) — condition the exercise of the conversion rights by the State of credits in capital of the New Bank to its prior approval by the Assembly of the Republic. Fifthly, the Resolution Projects 75 / XIV / 1 will be discussed together. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government create a family support network and promote study and debate for a family and birth policy, 77 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Establishment of a possible committee for monitoring initiatives on family and birth, 59 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — By an integrated policy for childhood and family and 255 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of cross-border and integrated measures to support and encourage birth. of the sixth point is the general discussion of Law Projects No. 476 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Creates a special unit of salvation and animal rescue by making the third amendment to Law No 27 / 2006 of 3 July and the first amendment to Decree-Law No 45 / 2019 of 1 April, 494 / XIV / 1. a ( Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues ) — Other Law No. 27 / 2006 of 3 July and Decree-Law No. 45 / 2019 of 1 April, establishing the special animal relief team and 501 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Prepares Civil Protection for Rescue, Rescue and Animal Relief( 3 ). the amendment to Law No 27 / 2006 of 3 July ; 3. the amendment to Decree-Law No 134 / 2006 of 25 July; 3. the amendment to Law No 65 / 2007 of 12 November ; 2. the amendment to Decree-Law No 45 / 2019 of 1 April; and 2. the amendment to Decree-Law No 116 / 98 of 5 May ), together with Draft Resolution No 580 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP ) — Training, within the framework of Civil Protection, to save and rescue animals in the event of a disaster. Finally, we will generally discuss Bills Nos 450 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Reporting by the ICNF to the Assembly of the Republic, to monitor and strengthen compliance with the national goal of reducing the area of eucalyptus in the forest area, 493 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — establishes the monitoring committee for the monitoring, prevention and control of the natural regeneration of the eucalyptus and the exotic woody invaders and determines the development of a plan to control the natural regeneration of eucalyptus and action for the surveillance and control of the exotic woody invaders and 500 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Creates a public breeding network for the multiplication of native species, recovery of burned areas and transformation of the landscape, along with the Resolution Project No 521 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Recommends support to the Government to remove burning trees with fires in 2017, start of spontaneous growth eucalyptuses and for ( re) foresting with endogenous species. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I wish you a good afternoon and a good evening. The session is closed. [[It was 18 hours and 59 minutes.]]
