ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-10.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists. The meeting is open. [[It was 15 hours and 4 minutes.]] It is with pleasure that I see them all in good health, after a few weeks, even though there have been meetings of some committees and even yesterday if the Conference of Leaders is held. Today, together with the Permanent Commission, the 2nd plenary is being opened in a way. the Legislative Session of this Parliament. Before we begin the agenda, which we will comply with as quickly as possible, there are several announcements to make to the House, so I give the floor to Mr Maria da Luz Rosinha and Mr Duarte Pacheco to deal with this "zero point" of the agenda.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-10.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, very late for everyone. I begin by taking into account an opinion of the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members, which is bound by the waiver of the mandate of Mrs Catarina Marcelino ( PS ) of the electoral circle of Setúbal, and its replacement by Ivan Gonçalves, with retroactive effects from 6 September 2020, including being the opinion in favour of this replacement. Another opinion of the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members is to authorize Members Mariana Mortágua and Beatriz Gomes Dias ( BE ) to provide written testimony, as well as Mrs Joacine Katar Moreira ( Nsc. ) to testify in person as witnesses.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-10.u3	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us vote on this opinion. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the CH was recorded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-10.u4	Mr. President and Mr. Members have also entered the Bureau and several legislative initiatives have been admitted. I refer, first, to Resolution Nos 2 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Convention between the Portuguese Republic and the Republic of Kenya to Eliminate Double Taxation in Income Tax Matters and Prevent Fraud and Tax Evasion, signed in Lisbon on 10 July 2018, which falls to 2. the Commission, 3 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Convention for the Creation of the Square Kilometer Array Observatory, signed in Rome on 12 March 2019, which falls to 2. the Commission ; 4 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Agreement between the Portuguese Republic and the Republic of Croatia on Defence Cooperation, signed in Lisbon on 10 July 2019, which falls to 2. the Commission ; 5 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Agreement on the Participation of Croatia in the European Economic Area, signed in Brussels on 11 April 2014 which falls to 2. the Commission ; 6 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Protocol to the Convention on Forced or Compulsory Labour, 1930 adopted by the General Conference of the International Labour Organization at its 103. the session, held in Geneva, on 11 June 2014, which falls to 2. the Commission ; 7 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Comprehensive and Strengthened Partnership Agreement between the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Armenia, of the other part, signed on 24 November 2017 in Brussels, which falls to 2. the Commission ; 8 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Protocol on the Privileges and Immunities of the Unified Patent Court, held in Brussels on 29 June 2016, which falls to 2. the Commission ; 9 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Agreement on Air Transport between the Portuguese Republic and the Republic of Peru, signed in Lisbon on 26 February 2019, which falls to 2. the Commission ; and 10 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Protocol of Accession to the Trade Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Colombia and Peru, of the other part, to take account of the accession of Ecuador, signed on 11 November 2016, in Brussels, which falls to 2. the Commission. Parliamentary Investigations Nos 4 / XIV / 1 also entered the Bureau. a ( CH ) — Establishment of a parliamentary commission to investigate the financing of political campaigns by the Espírito Santo Group ( GES ), as well as the divestment operations of assets of the New Bank, and 5 / XIV / 1. a (BE) — possible parliamentary inquiry into the losses of the New Bank charged to the Resolution Fund. Law Nos 53 / XIV / 1 were also included in the Bureau. a ( GOV ) — Creates the extraordinary process of business viability, which goes down to 1. the Commission, in connection with 6. the Commission; 54 / XIV / 1. a ( ALRAM ) — Amends the voluntary social insurance scheme approved by Decree-Law No 40 / 89 of 1 February in the current wording as well as the Code of Contributory Schemes of the Preventive Social Security System, as annexed to Law No 110 / 2009 of 16 September 2009 in the current wording in order to allow the admission of Portuguese residents in the diaspora, which falls to 10. the Commission ; and 55 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Authorizes the Government to legislate on the prevention and investigation of railway accidents by partially transposing Directive ( EU ) 2016 / 798, which falls to 6. the Commission, in connection with 1. the Commission. I also refer to the entry into the Bureau of Bills Nos 214 / XIV / 1. a ( Citizens) — Post-mortem assisted drug treatment, which falls to 9. the Commission ; 479 / XIV / 1. a ( IL) — Ensures the independence of regulatory entities, which falls to 6. the Commission ; 480 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Fight the illegal game( 7. the amendment to Decree-Law No 66 / 2015 of 29 April approving the Legal Scheme of Games and Online Betting ), which falls to 6. the Commission ; 483 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Extends the extraordinary scheme for the protection of tenants( 4 ). the amendment to Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March ), which falls to 6. the Commission ; and 484 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Creates a maximum ceiling for the value of 2. o is 3. the courses of studies and postgraduates in public higher education, which falls to 8. the Commission. Parliamentary Opinions Nos 27 / XIV / 1 were also included in the Bureau. a ( PCP ) — Concerning Decree-Law No 28 -A / 2020 of 26 June establishing the Legal Regime of Land Conversion, and 28 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Concerning Decree-Law No 29 / 2020 of 29 June, which establishes a programme to support simple rural sharing, referred to as "Paragraphing to Sort".
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-10.u5	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members also included in the Bureau draft resolutions Nos 588 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Urgent deferral of the deadlines for delivery of the IRC Model Performance Statement 22, which falls to 5. the Commission ; 589 / XIV / 1. a ( CH) — For the implementation of the compulsory reforestation work institute for those convicted of the forest fire crime, which falls to 1. the Commission ; 590 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — For a public and universal telecommunications service in Portugal : 5G, opportunity to change course, which falls to 6. the Commission ; 591 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government amend the Resolution of the Council of Ministers No 179/ 2019 of 24 October with a view to safeguarding an effective continuation of public housing policies which falls to 6. the Commission, in connection with 11. the Commission ; 592 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends to the Government the approval of the National Strategy for the Prevention and Treatment of Anemia and consecrates 26 November as the National Day of Anemia, which falls to 9. the Commission ; 593 / XIV / 1. a ( IL ) — For the immediate suspension of the extradition agreement with Hong Kong, due to the end of its judicial independence vis-à-vis China, which falls to 2. the Commission ; 594 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends to the Government the provision of updated and detailed information on the epidemiological situation of COVID-19 disease in Portugal, which falls to 9. the Commission; 595 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends to the Government an absolute priority in the completion of the project to requalify the Pavilion 5 of Hospital Sousa Martins, da Guarda, para Maternidad and Department of Health of Children and Women; 596 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends to the Government the creation of methods that allow faster results of the analyses carried out to the waters where traditional bivalve fishing is permitted, which falls to 7. the Commission ; 597 / XIV / 1. a ( CH) — For the implementation of a compulsory work programme for beneficiaries of social income for insertion ( RSI ), which falls to 10. the Commission ; 598 / XIV / 1. a ( CH) — By revoking the decision of the Council of Ministers to implement the contingency status from 15 September, which falls to 6. the Commission, with knowledge of 9. the Commission ; 600 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Mobile market and introduction of 5G technology, which falls to 6. the Commission ; 601 / XIV / 1. a ( CH) — For the full disclosure of the audit to the New Bank and participation in the judicial authorities, which falls to 5. the Commission ; 602 / XIV / 1. a ( PAR) — Movement of the President of the Republic to Spain ; 603 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Established September 4 as the National Day of Sexual Health, which falls to 9. the Commission ; 604 / XIV / 1. a ( CH) — Recommends that the discipline of citizenship and development be an optional curriculum unit, which goes down to 8. the Commission ; 605 / XIV / 1. a (BE) — Recommends the integration of precarious operational assistants in public school, which goes down to 8. the Commission ; 606 / XIV / 1. a ( PAR) — Adoption of the Standing Committee Regulation; 607 / XIV / 1. a ( CH) — Recommends that the Government, in conjunction with local authorities, draw up a specific plan for the transport of students to schools, which falls to 8. the Commission, in connection with 11. the Commission, 608 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government ensure the follow-up of children who first enter preschool or 1. the cycle, which falls to 8. the Commission ; 609 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Requalification of the Pavilion 5 of the hospital of the Guard and the Pavilion Dona Amélia, which goes down to 9. the Commission ; 610 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Measures to combat violence against health professionals, which falls to 9. the Commission ; 611 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Suspension of the procedure for the award of works of expansion of the port of leixões, including extension of the outer seabreak, which falls to 6. the Commission, and 618 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Support to institutions in the social and solidarity sector that have residential structure for elderly people under the exceptional and temporary measures relating to the epidemiological situation of COVID-19, which falls to 10. the Commission. Finally, he gave the Bureau the Popular Referendum Initiative No. 1 / XIV / 1. a (António Maria Almeida Braga Pinheiro Torres et al.) — About the ( des) penaltyization of death on request, which goes down to 1. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-10.u6	Thank you very much, ladies. Secretaries. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the first item on the agenda is the adoption of the Standing Committee Regulation, which happens every year at this time. This Regulation has been distributed in good time by all parliamentary groups and no amendments have been made to it and we shall therefore proceed to the vote. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the CH was recorded.]] The second item on the agenda is the reading of the messages of the President of the Republic on the devolution, without promulgation, of the Decrees of the Assembly of the Republic Nos 46 / XIV, 55 / XIV, 57 / XIV and 59 / XIV. Let's split the work like this: I read the first one, then the gentlemen. Secretaries read the second and the third, and finally I read the fourth. I shall read the message of the President of the Republic on the non-promulgation return of the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 46 / XIV — Third amendment to Law No 43 / 2006 of 25 August 2006 on the monitoring, assessment and delivery of the Assembly of the Republic in the framework of the European Union construction process : « 1. I address your Excellency in accordance with Article 136 ( 1 ). the Constitution, transmitting this message to the Assembly of the Republic on Decree No 46 / XIV. 2. The regime in force provides for a debate on European issues in plenary of the Assembly of the Republic before each meeting of the European Council, i.e. on average six or more annual debates. Normally, following those until recently existing 15-year debates with the Prime Minister. 3. With a view to enhancing the debate in plenary on these European themes, the proposed regime would include only two debates per year, one at the beginning of each six-monthly Presidency of the Council of the European Union, autonomous and longer. The remaining debates would be referred to Parliamentary Committee, unless, for exceptional reasons, it proposed registration in plenary or called on the Government to further debate. 4. Given the good intentions invoked, I must recognize that the solution found if it does not appear happy. Neither in public perception nor in the chosen time to introduce it. It is not happy in the public perception, because two debates are not six or more, because Parliamentary committee is not plenary, because practice has revealed that the speed of events always exceeds — and not only in exceptional circumstances — the simplifying view that a semi-annual debate is sufficient to cover a presidency, and because the most obvious reading of the proposed hour is that of the devaluation of European themes and the role of the Assembly of the Republic before them. It does not seem happy in time, because doing so four months before the beginning of the Portuguese Presidency of the Council of the European Union is choosing the worst moment, which would be expected to be greater and not less important than the public perception of the nuclear character of national involvement in the European Union. 5. in these terms, I return, without promulgation, Decree No 46 / XIV, asking the Assembly of the Republic to consider if it is not at least more politically appropriate to provide for another debate in plenary, in the middle of each semester, i.e. through each presidency of the Council of the European Union. The President of the Republic, Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa. Do not keep on seeking. ” Mr Maria da Luz Rosinha has now given the floor to read the message of the President of the Republic on the devolution, without promulgation, of the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 55 / XIV.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-10.u7	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the message is as follows: « Palace of Bethlehem, 12 August 2020 His Excellency the President of the Assembly of the Republic, Subject : Decree No. 55 / XIV — Fifth amendment to Law No. 43 / 90 of 10 August (Exercise of the right to petition) 1. I address your Excellency in accordance with Article 136 ( 1 ). the Constitution, transmitting this message to the Assembly of the Republic on Decree No 55 / XIV. 2. The legal regime in force gave citizens the right to see petitions with more than four thousand signatories to be discussed in plenary of the Assembly of the Republic, provided that they met the requirements of the Constitution and the law. 3. The amendment now proposed for Article 24 ( 1 ( a ). it raises the number of signatories required for more than 10,000 citizens. 4. Petitions which have between four thousand and ten thousand subscribers are now being discussed in Parliamentary committee, without a vote — which will exist only for the report on these incidents — and will only be submitted to the plenary in the form of the honourable Members' own initiative. 5. The reasons for this amendment are related to the rationalization of parliamentary work, the greater ease of obtaining signatures in this digital age and the excess of petitions that may affect the logic of the established government system. 6. With due respect, it seems to me, despite all these reasons, that the step taken represents a negative sign for Portuguese democracy. 7. Not only, nor above all, because the number of petitions fell in 2018 and 2019, compared to 2017, and there was not the feared increase in the use of e-mail mail, but because it can be seen as a sign of closure in the Assembly of the Republic, in the participation of citizens and in the vitality of democracy itself. 8. in an already complex time for the reform and updating of political parties and the emergence of social and political inorganic phenomena of anti-systemic tropism, anything to reveal discomfort to the participation of citizens does not help, or rather, help to strengthen democracy. 9. On the contrary, this era of information society, with greater public access through the Internet and social networks, advises the development of participatory democracy alongside the representative, allowing greater connection between elected and represented representatives. 10. in these terms, and due to imperative of civic consciousness, I return, without promulgation, Decree No. 55 / XIV, asking the Assembly of the Republic to consider whether to take the proposed step, and it gives it, if not to mitigate it in its surroundings. The President of the Republic, Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-10.u8	Mr Duarte Pacheco has now given the floor to read the message of the President of the Republic on the devolution, without promulgation, of the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 57 / XIV.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-10.u9	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the message is as follows: « His Excellency the President of the Assembly of the Republic, Subject : Decree No 57 / XIV— Nineth amendment to Law No 37 / 81 of 3 October approving the Law of Nationality 1. I address your Excellency in accordance with Article 136 ( 1 ). the Constitution, transmitting this message to the Assembly of the Republic on Decree No 57 / XIV. 2. The explanatory reason for this refusal to promulgate the said diploma is in accordance with the rules set out in Article 3 ( 4 ) and ( 5 ). Article 9 ( 2 ) and ( 2 ). or 3. These rules provide for the exemption from the application of the generic scheme as regards couples linked by marriage or de facto union with children in common, children of Portuguese nationality. 4. I find myself politically unjust because disproportionately disadvantaged, disadvantaged couples without children, as well as, above all, couples with children with Portuguese nationality, but who are not children in common. 5. As material presumption of greater cohesion or stability in couples with children, and in them, with children in common, these children endowed with Portuguese nationality, is taken from my point of view, far too far away. 6. This is clearly the case if there are Portuguese national sons or daughters but they are not in common with the couple. Also, in couples with no children, and in many cases they cannot have them. 7. in these terms, I return, without promulgation, Decree No. 57 / XIV, asking the Assembly of the Republic to recompensate the above-mentioned standards. The President of the Republic, Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-10.u10	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, finally, I am going to read the message of the President of the Republic on the non-promulgation return of the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 59 / XIV — First amendment to Law No 17 / 2014 of 10 April establishing the Basics of the Policy of Planning and Management of the National Maritime Area : « His Excellency the President of the Assembly of the Republic, 1. I address your Excellency in accordance with Article 136 ( 1 ). the Constitution, transmitting this message to the Assembly of the Republic on Decree No 59 / XIV. 2. A careful analysis of the Decree under consideration leads me, with the natural respect for different judgments, not to consider that there are sufficient reasons for, in the light of constitutional jurisprudence, moreover, accompanied, in a clear majority manner by the doctrine, to initiate preventive supervision of the unconstitutionality of any of its rules, in particular those contained in Article 8 (3). Article 31. o -A. In fact, it seems to me that these rules safeguard the primacy of the integrity and sovereignty of the State, which make primary powers in the maritime public domain indelegable : — Article 8 ( 3 ). the, by excluding the need for mandatory and binding opinion of autonomous regions in matters relating to such principles, and, more frequently, by committing to the Government the elaboration and approval of the instruments for the sorting of the national maritime area. — Article 31. o -A, requiring mandatory and binding advice from the central administration for regional legislative decrees on the development of matters relating to Articles 8. o 11. o, 13. o 25. o, 27. a 29. o is 31. the, whenever they involve the principles of the integrity and sovereignty of the State. 3. Nevertheless, I believe that it is necessary to consider further and more precisely what is said in Article 31 (3) ( c) and ( d ). o -A, with regard to secondary powers, peacefully understood as delegable. In point ( c ), it shall be claimed that codecision procedures shall consist, at least in their essential tracing, of the sorting instruments provided for in Article 8 ( 3 ). the, thus ensuring the conjugation between state and autonomous regions in the definition of this trace. An addiction will fulfill that function. In point (d), it will be important to explicitly highlight matters relating to the integrity and sovereignty of the State by final addition. Thus subsequent problems are mitigated, created by the mere exemplifying character of the listing of licensed activities for the purpose of private use, which may include others, in addition to those mentioned, of potential relevance to the sovereignty of the State. 4. in these exact terms, I return to the Assembly of the Republic, without promulgation, Decree No 59 / XIV— First amendment to Law No 17 / 2014 of 10 April, establishing the bases of the National Maritime Policy and Management, requesting the weighting of the introduction of clarification additions in the rules set out in Article 31 ( c ) and ( d ). o -A. The President of the Republic, Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa. Do not keep on seeking. ” We have therefore concluded the reading of the messages sent by your Excellency the President of the Republic during this period. We therefore move on to the third item on the agenda, which is made up of political statements. I give the floor to Mr José Manuel Pureza.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-10.u11	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in one of those phrases that make the charm of your writing, Mia Couto proclaimed: "Furthermore, there are only arguments. » I want, on behalf of the Left Block, to list five facts that mark our days and bring arguments for the political response that must be given to them. First: the pandemic crisis gives no signs of slowing down and the pressure on the National Health Service ( SNS) will tend to increase with cold weather and with the crossing of COVID with other diseases proper to that time. In view of this, the worst arguments are that of fear and individualism and the arguments we want to counteract are that of care and prevention. It is no longer acceptable for the care of old people to be given to business or well-intentioned amateurism. We need to give the utmost urgency to qualified home care and a public care network. It is not conceivable any hesitation in hiring so many health professionals that the SNS lacks for their response to be a safety reference for the lives of all. This was written in law in the 2020 budget. Buy it! Care, prevention, determination, against fear and against individualism. Second, the school and the hospital will be two places of intense testing to our organizational capacity and collective sense, in the time we are entering. And this brings others behind you as the fact that the business world has retreated when we had to mobilize to take care of everyone and to continue to do so. Today, the country learned that pregnant women with VOCID are rejected in private hospitals,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-10.u12	And public!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-10.u13	... certainly the same ones who, when their service to the fight against COVID was equationed, the first thing they did was to present accounts to the State. Against these facts, we bring arguments: the argument that this is the time to seriously reinforce the SNS with human and financial means; the argument that this is the time to give strength and quality added to the school of all, reducing the number of students by class and increasing the tables of teachers and operational assistants. This is a condition for public school to be a strong place of daily citizenship learning, which is the strongest vaccine against the pandemics that threaten us. Thirdly, COVID has insinuated itself, the same ones have always emphasized their crusade against labour rights, taking advantage of what the current law provides for them — and provides so much! — to lay off, to make it necessary, to reduce the wage. Against this fact, we have an argument: that the crisis of the troika and the right government have taught us that the contraction of wages and pensions contract the economy and creates unemployment and precarious employment, and that in times of crisis the stimulus to wages and pensions is essential to keep the economy moving. That is why the correct answer that the country needs is that of the significant and non-residual increase in the minimum wage and that of wage increases that are brought by the internal market, especially now that the international market has blocked. The correct answer that the country needs is that of strengthening the rights of those who work, taking out of the law everything that humiliates the worker and diminishes his full citizenship. Yes, there are more objections to citizenship than to the recent reactionary manifesto. We shall fight them all with the same determination. Fourthly, when the country needs more resources to organize itself in response to the pandemic crisis and the immense social and economic crisis that is there, the bleeding of public money to clean up money from the financial system does not stop. It is necessary to characterize the clean-up of the New Bank's balance sheet with successive injections of millions of public money as a "transparent and competitive" action, as did its President of the Board of Directors. It is a trick of those who have always counted on the announcement of the governments and the parties on the right so as not to lack public money for the so-called clean-up. This announcement is a political choice, because the truth is that, in order to regain the strength of public services, to hire doctors, nurses and technicians for the SNS or teachers and assistants for the public school, to rescue the dignity of wages and pensions, to strengthen the continuing care network or to affirm a care provider state and not only the funder of who does so, for all this, there is never money and requires it - it is soon qualified as ideological impertinence. Well, against facts there are arguments and the argument we bring is simple and clear: that no euro needed to respond to the crisis, to social support or to health is diverted to continue to feed the greed of the financial system. Fifth and final fact: we live times of maximum political demand, a need for maximum determination in creating political and financial conditions so that the answers I have indicated can be materialised. In view of this requirement, there were those who, for the last time, tested dramatizations in place to open even more political crises. Against this fact, the Left Block brings arguments.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-10.u14	And votes!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-10.u15	The country has more to worry about than political attacks. The pandemic, unemployment, school and hospital are functioning safely, the care of the old, the despair of the small entrepreneurs, the distress of the threatened by eviction, all this challenges a firm and bold commitment to ensure that fair answers can be true. Anyone who wants to escape the effort required, with the alibi of crises as staged as empty of substance, fails to their responsibility. For our part, we don't give up anything. We assume the utmost determination that the arguments of justice and democracy should be passed on to the arguments of fear and conformism and that we should have facts that give us the joy and enthusiasm that our people so deserve. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-10.u16	The political statement by the CFP Parliamentary Group is followed, and Mr Duarte Alves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-10.u17	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: If there is something that the last few weeks have shown is that the scandal of BES ( Banco Espírito Santo ) continues with the New Bank. It is increasingly clear that the sooner the New Bank is turned into the public sphere, the sooner the harmful management ends, which is always paid by the Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-10.u18	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-10.u19	For this reason, the CFP has scheduled an initiative for 17 September to restore public control of the bank, in particular by converting all the funds delivered from the resolution to social capital. If it is the State that pays the accounts of the New Bank, it must be the State that controls its destinations. This requirement is of the greatest importance, particularly in a context where the country is faced with large financial needs, both for families and for consumption, and for the promotion and leverage of the productive system. Do not take this option of public control and continue to inject millions into the New Bank, especially at the time we go through, is to choose to continue the scandal and the cancellations and adventures of the current Administration.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-10.u20	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-10.u21	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the BSE scandal continues with the New Bank and is in sight of everyone. The consequences of the fraud that represented the resolution decided by the PSD/CDS Government continue to manifest themselves. They told the Portuguese that it was possible to solve a bank that had liabilities of EUR 12 billion in its international holding with the EUR 4, EUR 9 billion that struck right with what was left of the funds of the troika. They told the Portuguese to divide a supposed « good bank » into a « bad bank », but after all the assets of the « good bank » were overrated. The consequences of this lie, which has the face of Maria Luís Albuquerque and the PSD/CDS government, as well as of the Governor of Banco de Portugal, Carlos Costa, continue to manifest themselves in the millions that continue to be buried in the New Bank. When the CFP then spoke of the hypothesis of nationalisation, the Banco de Portugal estimated that this option would cost EUR 7 billion. The fact is that the State has already spent more than that, but the bank is still delapidated, at the expense of the public record, to be handed over to any Spanish financial group. The BSE scandal also continues with the PS Government's option to privatize the New Bank at zero cost, giving it to the Lone Star fund, with a public guarantee of EUR 3, 9 billion. They will tell me that Lone Star has injected EUR 1000 million into the bank. It is true, but he injected that value into a bank that was already his. For the shares, by the participation of 75 %, Lone Star paid zero euros and was able to manage the bank's assets at its bel-plesure, knowing that it had up to 3, 9 billion to suck the taxpayers. This has been done by Lone Star, and both the PS government and the Banco de Portugal had an obligation to know that, by the profile of this fund, that would be their management practice. The scandals continue with the New Bank and the current Administration, without any of the supposed control mechanisms working. The PCP has never done this audit the alpha and omega of the problem of BES / New Bank. In addition, we believe that it was necessary for the Banco de Portugal to have its own means of audit, rather than continue to depend on these large private consultants, loaded with conflicts of interest with the banks themselves that audited, as has already been seen with Deloitte's involvement in the sale at the balance price of the insurer GNB Life, who then audited. Although the audit is not, for us, what legitimizes or ceases to legitimize the political options for the New Bank, the fact is that they have been patented, both in the audit and in recent news, unacceptable situations, such as sales of real estate to figures related to Lone Star itself, sales to the scrapping of assets, numerous losses of debts to large economic groups. The current Administration and Lone Star are not interested in the future of the bank, its workers, its network of counters, in the role it should have at the service of the economy. What they are interested in is using all the public guarantee—and, if possible, even more— to clean the bank, fire workers and close counters to deliver the business to a large foreign banking group, which will stay with the good customers and with the good assets, because the bad ones we will be supporting. We do not exempt the European Union, from the ECB ( European Central Bank ) to DG Comp ( Director-General for Competition ), from the taxes they have imposed on this disaster path, but we do not cease to hold the PSC, CDS and PS governments accountable, which, subject to these taxes, have made decisions that have continued to harm the Portuguese. What has happened in BES since its reprivatization, and since 2014 with the New Bank, is a portrait of a monopoly group, its high-finance networks and the governments of right-wing policy at its service. There may be more than 1000 audits, discussions and parliamentary investigations, but for the CFP there is no doubt about who are the political leaders for what happened at BES and is happening in the New Bank or about the absolute need to step up the road and ensure that, since we pay for it, we can have the bank in the public sphere and in the country's service. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-10.u22	Mr João Almeida of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor for a political statement.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-10.u23	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in this atypical year, we resumed the parliamentary debates focused on exactly the same issues we were on when we stopped our work — the pandemic crisis and the social and economic crisis that this pandemic crisis originated. It is good to remember the context in which each of these points was when we interrupted parliamentary work. With regard to the pandemic crisis, we were still in the context of the Portuguese miracle. With regard to the social and economic crisis, we were in the context of the European Union's « bazouca », which would solve all the problems. That is, in the good style of the Prime Minister and the government, the crisis was great, but surely everything was controlled and resolved. But during the summer, there were many questions that were open. It was necessary to know how children would return to school and how schools and the entire educational community would prepare for that return. It was necessary to know how the elderly who suffered in the homes would spend the summer and prepare for the worst phase, which is winter. It was necessary to know how families who had jobs at risk and who had credit moratoriums, who would end up, could predict their lives and know how to avoid these risks. It was necessary to know how companies could be able to fight for more orders and, for example, to pay the taxes, which were deferred and now fall upon them. It was necessary to know how all Portuguese would again have a National Health Service that answered them and that they would not continue to delay consultations and surgeries. In the face of all this, what was asked of the Government was that it should foresee, prepare and respond, both in the pandemic crisis and in the social and economic crisis. But there are just a few examples to see that this did not happen. Where was it that he was able to predict the situation when the Portuguese households continued to be devastated by numerous outbreaks of the pandemic, without the government showing any ability to predict that this would happen and to have conditions of response? It is extraordinary that, at the end of summer, after all that has happened, the government will now present an idea of having brigades to respond to these homes. It is in fact the one who has no predictability of what is going to happen. As for the preparation of the return to classes, which we are going to talk about in the next debate, there are many who are part of the educational community — teachers, non-teachers, students, families — and who do not have the slightest idea of the conditions in which schools are going to work, starting next week. Even in the response capacity, the Government struck all the records when, in order to create an application that should be a way of simplifying the relationship of the Portuguese to the situation they were living, it managed to take six months to have an application on the pandemic working. Also in the economic and social crisis, where was the government's ability to deal, for example, with what happened to the UK's blacklist on tourism? At the most delicate moment of the recovery of the sector most affected from an economic point of view, the Government seemed to have no predictive capacity, not even any diplomatic response capacity, to prevent what happened in those weeks when our tourism suffered from this decision by a government with which we are related and with which we should have worked this situation. Where is the government's ability to prepare for what is going to happen, the end of the moratoriums and the end of the deadline for the deferral of taxes, so that families and businesses do not have broken situations, from the point of view of their budgets? from the point of view of the answer, we will begin to discuss those which will be the priorities of the Budget for 2021 ; and it is very important that we do so, that we realize, for example, that at this time of the « Costa Silva plan », the generalities remain, in fact, what the plan was: a description of priorities which, in essence, made everything priority. Recovering a sentence from a children's series, which fits well with this type of option,... [[Protests by the PS Spouse Porfirio Silva.]] ... if everything is a priority, of course, nothing is a priority. Therefore, when a plan is developed in which nothing is a priority, this plan has a very small utility. Today, the Minister of Finance has come to tell us - something that is very worrying - that is very socialist, but it is very worrying. The Government believes that the response to the economic and social crisis is on the distribution side and on the income policy side. Wrong! It never turned out that way. [[Protests by PS MP Marina Gonçalves.]] What we need is a capacity to take advantage of funding, to take advantage of the resources that we will have from the European Union to make them reproductive. This is not done by prioritising distribution, priority being given to creating wealth, priority being given to economic growth, and the way we prioritize economic growth would be to do what other countries are doing: a substantial drop in taxes so that our economy can breathe and that our families can prosper. So what we say in this resumed parliamentary debate is that we do not make a positive assessment of the role of the government during this period. On the contrary, we find it very dangerous that the pandemic threat and the threat of the social and economic crisis should be combined with the threat of government incompetence. For the CDS we will maintain the position of denunciation of what actually does not work well, but, above all, in this Legislative Session, as in all others, proposing alternatives for the country to know that it is possible to do better. It is even possible to do much better! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-10.u24	I have the floor for a political statement by Mr André Silva of the Parliamentary Group of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-10.u25	Good afternoon, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. Citizenship is a fundamental value for the functioning of societies. We have a duty to ensure that children and young people become informed, responsible, respectful, participatory, empathic adults with the ability to question and expose their own ideas. Civic conduct is built from a young age, through a set of values in which society is built and its development. These values reflect the moral and ethical framework of a society. Very recently, citizenship began to disturb and suddenly a discipline of citizenship became the source of all evils, the scapegoat. But it can only be the scapegoat of those who are afraid of more conscious citizens and citizens, free or more empathic. It can only be the scapegoat of those who consider that education is done within drawers, bubbles or test tubes, hermetic to life contexts. It can only be the scapegoat of those who see education only as the acquisition of academic knowledge and performance and aims to reduce children and young people to replicas of conservative models instituted by others. For the NAP, it is clear that education is done in interaction with others, whether in the family, at school, in groups of belonging, in social communication or in communities. To consider that human development, personality formation and the choice of personal projects are done exclusively within the family is to deny children and young people knowledge, the challenge of thinking for themselves, to have the right to build their own perspectives and identities. We live in a global, plural, diverse and changing world, which requires much more than academic knowledge; it requires a capacity for constant adaptation, social skills, debate of ideas, bridge building, critical analysis and ability to put oneself in the other's place, under the penalty of living in an illusory world just like us. But, after all, it is assumed in Portugal that it is a current that is alarming in the face of an education programme based on the debate of perspectives in such essential areas as human rights, equality, environmental education, sustainable development, health, safety, peace or animal welfare. What fears and worries do they have? A current that does not accept diversity and does not want to prevent the most diverse forms of discrimination, segregation and abuse. A current that does not want to reduce the rates of domestic violence, that does not want to educate for respect for the sexuality of the other, that wants to block awareness about our role in the sustainability of the planet, that wants to prevent us from caring for the other ways of life. A current that does not want to educate itself for the knowledge of the Constitution, for digital or road safety, for recycling or for the prevention of forest fires. A current that classifys the citizenship discipline of "ideological totalitarianism of sensitive and moral matters" translates a hypocritical stance and a fear that visions are deconstructed, yes, totalitarian, closed and pass-by. But what this current has not yet assumed is, after all, the model of education and school suitable for its vision.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-10.u26	There's no model!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-10.u27	It would perhaps be a model of earthwork of knowledge in which, in school, the following series of questions and answers would be possible: « Teacher, what is Darwinism? Do not keep on seeking. ” « I can't say, because your father is a creationist. Do not keep on seeking. ” « Teacher, what is global warming? Do not keep on seeking. ” « I can't say, because your father is a climate negationist. Do not keep on seeking. ” « Teacher, who was Fernão de Magalhães? Do not keep on seeking. ” « I can't say, because your father is a terraplanist. Do not keep on seeking. ” "Teacher, what are LGBTI rights? Do not keep on seeking. ” « I can't say, because your father is homophobic. Do not keep on seeking. ” « Teacher, what is multiculturalism? Do not keep on seeking. ” « I can't say, because your father is xenophobic. Do not keep on seeking. ” « Teacher, what is sustainable development? Do not keep on seeking. ” « I can't say, because your father is in favor of coal mines. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP João Pinho de Almeida.]] "Teacher, who is Pastor? Do not keep on seeking. ” « I can’t say, because your father is against vaccines. Do not keep on seeking. ” « Teacher, what was the Jewish Holocaust? Do not keep on seeking. ” « I can't say, because your father is anti-Semitic. Do not keep on seeking. ” "Teacher, what is gender equality? Do not keep on seeking. ” « I can't say, because your father is a machist. Do not keep on seeking. ” "Teacher, who was Fernando Pessoa? Do not keep on seeking. ” « I can't say, because your father is against it in literature. Do not keep on seeking. ” "Teacher, what is Enlightenment? Do not keep on seeking. ” « I can't say, because your father doesn't like modernizing. Do not keep on seeking. ” Defending the non-compulsory discipline of citizenship is to obstruct debate and the plural construction of ideas and perspectives; it is to disregard the right and access to education and multidisciplinary pedagogical content by children and young people; it is not to give children and young people the freedom to acquire knowledge, to inform themselves, to form their own conscience; it is to ignore the problems beyond themselves; it is the reflection of self-centeredness and anthropocentrism; it is to forget that we live in interconnected with all those who share the world with us; it is to disregard the existence of the many worlds that form us as civilization. Accessing multiple knowledge and perspectives does not take us away from freedom, makes us freer to make conscious and responsible choices, is the main weapon to fight hatred. But there are those who do not want freer citizens, because, under the cover of the arguments against this discipline, they intend to reduce individual and collective awareness and implement a totalitarian regime.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-10.u28	I have the floor for a political statement by Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Green Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-10.u29	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The health crisis between us quickly became also a social and economic crisis, with poverty gaining very worrying proportions. In fact, thousands of people have lost their jobs and so many continue to see their income substantially reduced in the face of the layoff situation which, contrary to their will, they are subject to. On the other hand, the vast majority of micro and small businesses live today very complicated times. Suffocated in a real suffocation, small businessmen are making "heart-tricks" to avoid the closure of their businesses. In view of this framework, what is required is that both the recovery plan and the next State budget should bear in mind that, apart from measures to combat COVID-19, which, of course, must be assured, it is imperative not only to ensure the survival of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, as a way to avoid an even more worrying situation with regard to unemployment figures, but also that it is imperative to combat poverty in a certain way and to ensure social support for people who have lost income and who face many difficulties, even to put bread on the table, and that, at the beginning of this school year, even by forcing their imagination, they cannot find a way to buy school materials for their children. The Greens therefore consider that both the recovery plan and the State budget that comes there should not follow the path outlined by the Supplementary Budget, which, by maintaining the cut-off of income to workers who are in layoff, did not exclude the large economic groups from the extension of the deadline to report tax losses; which refused the creation of a treasury fund for small businesses, but did not prevent the distribution of dividends among shareholders of large companies; and that it was unable to value environmental components, such as recycling, as a contribution to the dynamisation of the economy and the creation of jobs. On the other hand, with regard to environmental components, the Greens insist that it will be an absolutely irreversible mistake if the Government seeks to establish economic recovery in investment in infrastructures or options with widespread environmental impacts and whose contributions to the development of the country are more than doubtful. We refer, for example, to the location of the new airport in Montijo, to the unbridled exploitation of lithium, ignoring the quality of life of the populations, to the transformation of the Natural Park of Southwest Alentejano and Costa Vicentina into a garbage dump of open-air plastics or to the spread of intensive crops, be it olive or peanut. No, the path must be different and cannot be built by irreparably sacrificing our environmental values. We know that public investment is crucial for the revival of the economy, but it must be a quality investment, which promotes the development of the country without mortgageting the future, especially at the level of natural resources. And that is the way that needs to be done, making economic development compatible with the enhancement of environmental components. We therefore believe that the road should include train routes and must be built with our production. Serious and effective investment in public transport in general and in particular in rail is absolutely crucial in combating climate change, in addition to the importance it takes in terms of mobility and to cushion regional asymmetries. On the other hand, it is not necessary to be Nobel in the economy to realize that a country that does not produce does not create wealth and has nothing to export and that without the creation of wealth there is no economic recovery possible. The Greens therefore insist on the need to focus attention on our production, national production, since it is very unhealthy and not recommended that an economy be dependent on external factors that we do not dominate. Tourism is important, but our economic activity cannot be dependent only on one sector and little more. That is why it is essential to bet seriously, for example, on family agriculture, which can play an important role in the recovery of our food sovereignty. It is recalled that before entering the EEC ( European Economic Community ), our country produced 75 % of the food it consumes, and today the numbers are reversed and we only produce 25 % to import the remaining 75 %. It is therefore necessary to give life to the Family Agriculture Statute, to promote the reopening of the proximity markets, to ensure the disposal of products, to establish a fair price for production and to restore some balance in trade relations between producers and large commercial areas, i.e. to create the conditions for producers to produce and sell their products at fair prices. In addition, it is necessary to place public interest at the heart of decisions in order to avoid truly scandalous and immoral situations such as that of the New Bank, which continues to be a real monstrous bakery of public resources — resources that are necessary and which are so lacking in social policies, in particular for our National Health Service, and which are being dispersed with a bank that is not ours — or situations such as that of TAP ( Portuguese Air Transport ), where the State pays but does not send anything. And finally we continue to wait to see whether the Government is or is not determined to return the CTTs to Portuguese, bringing the public interest for this real negotiation that comes from the time of the PSD Government and the CDS. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-10.u30	Mr Porfirio Silva of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-10.u31	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The country has given a determined response to the early stages of the pandemic crisis and the social and economic crisis by which it is embroiled, but there is still a long and hard way to go. No one has chosen to live in times of pandemic, but it is our responsibility to face the new challenges with a future response and not merely conjunctural. The social and economic recovery plan, whose development has deserved an extended participation of society and whose debate we want to deepen here in Parliament, will not be merely a technological response to the crisis, will be a political response in the most noble sense of politics: promoting the common good, defending what is of all, mobilizing the diversity of knowledge, skills and responsibilities and also diversity of views. The country requires this response, either to protect health, either to promote employment and strengthen social and territorial cohesion, either to increase the productive potential of the country, necessary to give sustainability to the social state, and to accelerate the qualification of people, the qualification of organizations, the qualification of administration, the qualification of territories. The country also requires this response to align the agendas of climate transition and digital transition with the agenda of work with rights and with the agenda of a decent society. In the meantime, it is necessary to ensure that the recovery plan is provided with adequate means and that the European front is decisive. After all, the European Union learned something from the mistakes made in the previous crisis and today no one is responsible for an austere response. Portugal may be proud to have contributed to this development because it has demonstrated, in practice, that there was another way and that it had better results, but also the Portuguese Government played a significant role in shaping a strong and innovative European response. However, the departure is not winning. The complex decision-making procedures are not completed. All the different political currents with European representativeness are called upon for the mission to carry out the necessary decisions in a timely manner. We must also ensure that the means are used with maximum efficiency. We have to combine productively various tools, from public investment to private investment capable of entrepreneurship that strengthens the factors of sustainable competitiveness, through foreign direct investment and the diversification of the Portuguese economy with a reindustrialisation vector, today, more generally recognized as incontrovertible. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Democracy makes us stronger, more capable. If, in the words of Luís de Camões, «a weak king makes strong people weak» today, which there is no king and the sovereign is the people, the work to make us strong is to make democracy function to respond to the specific problems of the Portuguese. We have to think about the horizon for a decade. Public policies, in their master paths, lack continuity to produce effects. The country needs all democratic forces, including those which today, in the opposition, are preparing to be government in the future and because one country is divided into convergences and divergences, we must not be afraid of either one or the other. Democratic policy needs to be cooperation and competition at the same time — competitive cooperation, cooperative competition — at the political level, but also by promoting effective social dialogue at all levels. This is so urgent, for example, to make the new possibilities of remote work a factor favourable to the reconciliation of private life, family life and professional life and not a new risk to workers' rights. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As regards the responsibility of ensuring the necessary political stability to the vastness of the task, I will use an expression of a well-known Portuguese sociologist: to act against the waste of experience. A recovery plan does not start from zero and, just as it would not make sense that the recovery plan made the stage of the achievements of recent years, it would be unwise to waste the experience of structured cooperation accumulated by the majority of the left. We did a joint learning, not ignoring our differences, but doing the work of solving the problems. Against the waste of experience, we must mobilize it to do what is lacking, in a clear direction. Better economy and a decent society must go hand in hand. It is that inequality and poverty, in addition to harming our humanity, also harm the economy. The country and those we represent would not understand that, in this crossroads, we would leave in the middle the way that is missing. In the PS, we are here to assume and continue to share responsibility for this path, against the waste of experience. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-10.u32	It is the turn of the PSD Parliamentary Group. You have the floor, Mr. Ricardo Baptista Leite.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-10.u33	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The feeling of fear has settled on the day-to-day Portuguese. Because of the COVID-19, we heard parents say they're afraid to send their children to school. Because of the COVID-19, we heard children say that they are afraid to leave their parents in their homes, desperate often have no alternative. Because of the COVID-19, we heard entrepreneurs say they're afraid they won't be able to pay orders. We have heard Portuguese say that they are afraid of being unemployed, unable to pay their bills, of paying the loan or the rent of the house, who are afraid of not being able to put bread on the table for their family. Because of the COVID-19, we heard health professionals say they are afraid of the coming winter, of the risks to which they will be exposed, to which they will expose their families. They are afraid, but say « present», as they have always said — that is their nature, but they are afraid. The only way to overcome this fear is to do everything from now on to control the COVID-19, especially in the autumn and winter that are approaching. If we don't control the virus, the virus will eventually control our lives. The Social Democratic Party reaffirms what it has said since the first day of this pandemic: we fight a common enemy and we will always be on the side of solutions. This is not the time for the political assessment of the government's performance. at this critical time, the last thing the Portuguese need of us—the Assembly of the Republic—is a guerilla between parties. COVID-19 is not controlled with speeches, it is not resolved with rhetoric. It is not enough to say that the country does not close again or that the country no longer holds a confinement, that is why it needs to be done. If you fail in the response and there is an exponential growth of cases of VOCID-19 in Portugal, if you do not control the virus, well you can keep the doors of schools open, parents will keep your children at home. If you don't control the virus, well you can keep the trains running and the planes flying, the passengers won't show up. If you do not control the virus, well you can keep restaurants and hotels open, taxis and ubers on the road, there will simply be no customers. It is essential to keep the economy running and to avoid further confinement and therefore the government must act urgently. We need to strengthen the public health device to identify in real time and test, massively and systematically, the entire affected population, starting with people who had direct contact with infected people, even if they are asymptomatic. We must ensure that all infected and suspects are effectively isolated for 14 days. The hotels that are empty are required and accommodation is offered to those who have to be isolated! We need more and better information. The country has to regain confidence in the health authority and this can only be achieved with data transparency and clarity in the message. We need to strengthen surveillance, prevention and surveillance measures in all high-risk closed circuits, such as homes, including illegal ones. It is our moral obligation to protect the most vulnerable, the elderly, those who have done so much for us. It is our parents, our uncles, our grandparents who need to know that we are doing everything in our power, for them and for their safety. They can't feel abandoned! from school to sport, from restaurants to public transport, to all areas of operation in the country, it is not enough to make recommendations, it is essential to monitor and support those who cannot adapt. And we need to be more effective in controlling entry into the country, at airports, at sea ports and also at land borders, taking into account the worrying situation facing our brothers in Spain. More: we must urgently vaccinate the population with the influenza vaccine and with the vaccine against the pneumonias. It's not from here in two months, it's from next week. Only in this way will we reduce the burden of patients in the National Health Service during the winter. We must ensure that the SNS has, in fact today, more than 400 intensive care beds than at the beginning of the pandemic, including their intensive professionals promised to us by the government last May. More—and very important—: all other patients can no longer be left, the so-called "non-COVID patients", behind. The increase in non-VOC-related mortality is a very worrying sign that cannot be ignored. These patients — people with cancer, heart attack, stroke (brain stroke), diabetes — cannot be referred again to the eternal waiting lists. We need to strengthen the Health Line 24 and separate the COVID hospitals from the non-COVID hospitals, involving all establishments, taking advantage of the entire health system, to ensure access to care safely, timely and equitable. We must urgently resolve the difficulties that people are experiencing for failing to access their health centre. Today, there are Portuguese people who can't have access to their family doctor and this has to be corrected by now. We need to solve the medical board problems. Patients do not receive the social benefits they are entitled to because the joints simply stopped at the beginning of the pandemic. I don't need to explain to you what's six months in the life of someone with cancer. It is a moral imperative to resolve this matter. Finally, I'm going to the Portuguese. It is within our power to keep the country open and the economy working, so that we can, in fact, continue to live out of the house. This depends on these and many other urgent measures, but it depends on each one of us too. Therefore, I appeal to each Portuguese not to facilitate: maintain physical distance as a rule, continue to wash their hands frequently. And I appeal, in particular, to always use the mask, whenever possible, whenever they are with other people, even in the open air—that is just what each one of you is asked for. Our past and recent history shows that we are a people capable of responding to challenges, especially in the most difficult times. Once again it will be and together we will overcome fear. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-10.u34	To conclude this point, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-10.u35	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Perhaps the only advantage of a social crisis as serious as the one we are beginning to go through is to force us to face reality. That is why we need to look at the reality of how we came to the crisis, the reality of how we react to the crisis and the reality of how we can get out of it. First, how did we get here? Portugal does not grow, or grows, in average terms, less than 1 %, for at least 20 years. Half a dozen other countries with economies comparable to ours have done much better and have surpassed us in that period. Our public debt has been piled up, much because of ruinous public investments and irresponsible politicians, politicians who, it is worth remembering here, were from the PS in 18 of the last 25 years. Productivity, which sustains the viability of better wages, is today in Portugal lower, I repeat, lower, compared to our European partners, than it was 25 years ago. That this mere fact does not deserve the immediate conclusion that something has been deeply wrong in this country's politics, is something that I cannot honestly understand. The tax burden has steadily increased, without any visible counterpart in increasing the quality of public services, and, above all, the tax rate of each Portuguese, is of the largest in Europe and classified as atypical by the OECD ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ), which is the way they have to say incomprehensible. For all this, it is not surprising that people do not feed great hopes for the future, a future that they see as an empty opportunity, and end up succumbing to this culture of dependence and submission to the state that the PS, in fact, cultivates, especially for its own electoral interest. Thus we arrived at the beginning of 2020 with the PS pretending to ignore these weaknesses, but to boast of a surplus achieved through more taxes and many captivations, which were no longer a form of austerity 2.0. So when the pandemic hit us, Portugal was not ready. And that is the second reality we have to face. I don't mean technical preparation to fight a virus that nobody knew how to win. I am referring to the political, economic, financial and cultural preparation that a well-governed country should have to deal with this crisis and that it would allow us to have resources and means to give a better response. At no time in these six months of fighting the COVID-19, the PS government has achieved a correct balance of priorities. It began by devaluing the risks of the pandemic, when several neighbouring countries were already experiencing worrying outbreaks; it took time to strengthen the SNS 24 Line, to buy fans, to increase intensive care beds, to define test plans, to use, even timidly, resources outside the SNS to recover delayed consultations and surgeries. It remained to realize the dramatic impact of the prolonged closure of schools, of course, on the emotional well-being of young people, but also, above all, on the role of the school as a social elevator for those who need and deserve the most. It was not known, this government, to be surrounded by more capable technical advice, taking refuge once and for all after so many erratic or unreliable technical opinions, that they could never have replaced the political decisions that the government had no courage to make. And worse than anything else, the government has never been able to assume any responsibility for what went wrong: in the fans who arrived late, in the deaths for non-COVID-19 reasons, in the outbreaks in the homes and in so many other cases. This culture of deresponsibility is of the worst legacy of socialist governance and it is the result of a conviction that many years of power have rooted in the Socialist Party, namely, the conviction that the PS is the State, that everything can and can command. This is the only way to understand that, in the fight against the pandemic, it has been normal to decide to inject EUR 1200 million in the TAP, without knowing how to recover them, on the basis of plans that no one knows, despite the Liberal Initiative has already requested them almost two months ago — by the visas, legal deadlines apply to everyone less than the PS — or that it has found normal to name Mário Centeno directly from the Ministry of Finance for the Banco de Portugal, despite the obvious conflicts of interest that would generate and indeed have generated this special audit to Novo Banco, less than a month after the new Governor took possession — nor would we have expected to have ended with such a report that it has found normal to prevent the prior hearing of Eng.o Costa and Silva, a hearing that is now happening, the PS is asking, as a matter of urgency, and that it would have avoided having ended with a report that is more than a catalogue of measures that presents such a view. And it is exactly the ease with which the PS promotes this country's direct vision, in which the state is at the centre of everything and everything ends up controlling, which concerns us, when we see the reality of what we need to do to get out of this crisis. This is because you drive and more state is exactly what we don't need. It has never been so difficult to predict the future, it is true, but precisely so, for the Liberal Initiative there is something that is right: we will need the effort and imagination of thousands and thousands of Portuguese and not centralized plans made by politicians closed in cabinets. It will be necessary to do what has never been done in Portugal: effectively liberalize the country in order to be able to take advantage of the capacities of each Portuguese, reducing bureaucracy to decomplicate the lives of Portuguese people, lowering and simplifying taxes on those who work and invest, accelerating justice for the rapid protection of people's rights, effectively strengthening autonomy and freedom of choice in education and health, truly decentralizing the decision-making capacity for closer people, accompanying these skills of the necessary resources. And since millions of Europe are going to rain, they are not as bad spending as they were in the past by other socialist governments. That they do not allow only megalomanian public projects without return. That they are not applied without respect to taxpayers who will have to pay these funds as well. And that they don't end up favoring friends and fellows of the powerful of custom. So we will be careful, and we think that everyone should be attentive, for example, to appointments to the Portuguese Development Bank and will insist that their supervision be strong and independent. [[Protests by PS MP João Paulo Correia.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, they say that the definition of madness is to do the same thing and expect different results. Portugal has been trying the same thing for more than 20 years, with the same protagonists and the same policies. Turn the record, but they're always the same. To achieve different results, so that the Portuguese finally have the opportunities they deserve, it is not enough to turn the record, it is even necessary to change the record, change the pace. And that rhythm is liberalism.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-10.u36	We have thus reached the end of point 3 of our agenda, political declarations. We will therefore enter point 4 with the debate on the proper functioning of schools next school year ( 2020 / 21 ) by PSD marking. To open this debate, Mr Luís Leite Ramos, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-10.u37	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: The primary and secondary schools will reopen next week for a typical and particularly demanding school year for the entire educational community, from teachers to students and families, from directors to employees, from government to local authorities and to different public administration services. What the country expects and demands from government officials and political actors is that, in spite of the circumstances and hardships, adequate levels of trust and tranquility are guaranteed to all and the conditions necessary for learning not to be compromised and that no student, whatever his or her social or territorial origin, is left behind. And with open schools and in a face-to-face education system, because we all realize that it is the only way to ensure that the school fulfills its mission. The PSD recognizes the delicacy of the situation we live in and the complexity of the challenges facing the country. We have assumed, from the first hour, the sense of duty that leads us to place the interests of the Portuguese above the political and partisan interests. But also, on behalf of the interests of the Portuguese, we are intransigent in the scrutiny and evaluation of the action or inaction of the Government in assuming its responsibilities and in the implementation of the actions necessary for the proper functioning of schools in the coming school year. A few days from its reopening, the difficulties of schools are basically the same as they were a few months ago. The resources available in March are not very different from those available in September, despite the promises and announcements made by the Government for education and the word that Mr. Prime Minister has promised to honor. The health situation is worrying. The number of active cases of COVID-19 has increased substantially in recent days, causing a worsening of the climate of fear and insecurity. The mobility of an extended set of people, due to the return to work and to the educational activity, will increase interactions and expose the risks of contagion. But confinement is not the solution. Returning to school is essential for the economy, for employment, for the mental health of students, to recover the social and educational costs of such a long absence of school. We must therefore give the students and their families and all those who make school happen every day, ensuring the conditions necessary for them to carry out their mission safely. The question is whether the educational community is confident and calm and whether the government has done what it is competing with in due course. Unfortunately, the answer is no. The government planned the school year late and has always been late in implementing the various measures essential for the proper functioning of schools. The link between the Ministry of Education and local authorities was not adequately promoted. Since July, several actors in the education system have been alerting the government because the school year's planning could not be taken exclusively by schools. The government has ignored the alerts and the country is at a number of paces, the information is not very clear: it reaches the 'bookbookbook' and often seems more misleading advertising. In many cases, and in crucial matters, the government has been late in solving the problems or is still on the way. It is not enough to launch guiding or normative documents, to recommend the logistics organization of schools in bubbles, if students, in their travels to and from school, come in busy means of transport and with completely outdated schedules of those who are in their schools and who force them to wander out of school until they can return home. What serves the tireless work of the schools and their directors—and we want to welcome and enhance the work of the directors, which was relevant—to make students, families and all those who work there feel confident and secure in them? Once again, the Ministry of Education used the old recipe of pushing hard-operation solutions to schools without entrusting them with essential tools and resources. Fortunately, schools and their directors did not wait for the guidelines of the Ministry of Education. The Minister of Education is towing events and his Ministry is almost always late. of the visits to the schools and meetings that we have held in recent days, we have been reported a number of situations that the country knows: the delay in the contracts of the operational assistants, in many cases, the residual increase of its number, the failure to solve computer problems, the failure to solve the problem of teachers in risk groups and its replacement. Last April, Mr. Prime Minister said: « Whatever happens next school year will ensure universal access to digital platforms for all students of basic and secondary education ». This word has not been honored! Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, exceptional situations require exceptional measures and a government to meet the challenges that we all face. Unfortunately, this has not happened. The announcements and promises are of little importance when the country needs concrete and timely actions that return trust and tranquility to families, students, teachers, employees.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-10.u38	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-10.u39	I will finish, Mr. President. The Minister of Education cannot continue to rewind the events and run after the damage. The government, late and late, created rules that try to de-responsibility, but the truth is that it does not give, does not guarantee or provide the necessary means to schools. We can't waste any more time, Minister. The country expects and demands that it avoid health and education losses in schools and not run after them. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-10.u40	You now have the floor by the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Tiago Estêvão Martins.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-10.u41	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This debate is the time for us to be able to revisit the fundamental premise of what is the opinion of the Portuguese Society of Pediatrics and also of the guidelines of the Directorate-General for Health ( DGS ) for the coming school year. These documents, among many other things, are a fundamental consideration: that there are very strong reasons for us to have students back to school this school year. This is an absolutely fundamental premise, because it calls on all of us to recognize a risk, but to recognize a controlled risk and, fundamentally, a necessary risk. First, a controlled risk, because all measures are being taken by the government, by the schools, by the Directorate-General for Health, so that the school is a safe space; secondly, a necessary risk, because we cannot hypothesize the training of our students, nor their psychological well-being, nor allow the gap of inequalities to worsen. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is precisely this collective consciousness, which, in fact, we have demonstrated, which has led this school year to begin to be prepared, based on a plan A, a plan B and a plan C. There are three different plans, created for three different scenarios: plan A is that of present education, plan B is that of mixed teaching and plan C is that of distance teaching. Next week, we move forward with Plan A, of present education for everyone, that we will do everything to keep it during the school year, in order to ensure that we are prepared to make students feel as little as possible the impact of COVID-19 on their learning process. But it is also good to acknowledge that this plan A exists only, because since July, I repeat, since July, guidelines have been sent to schools, which have been detailed in detail in the most various documents. Today, all schools are prepared and informed about how to prepare their school year and avoid infections in the school environment, but they also have detailed information on how to act and what steps to take in the event of infection. They are more than 120 pages of guidelines and recommendations, in total, which lay down the general lines for each school to apply, in accordance with its specificities, giving schools a frame of reference so that they can exercise their autonomy and make their decisions. But indeed, the complexity of this school year required changes. This is why the school schedule has been extended and the budget has been strengthened by 125 million for human resources and by 7 million for PPE(individual protection equipment). That is why there are more than 2000 teachers in the teaching system, and this year they were placed earlier than in any other school year, and that there will be more than 3300 teachers with full time to work in support of students. That is why 400 million will be invested, during the coming academic year, to universalize access to digital and that this year there will be a reinforcement of 900 multidisciplinary technicians. That is why the individual protective material was acquired in time by the schools, with the money made available by the government,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-10.u42	It's the cameras! You're not ashamed!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-10.u43	... and that is why, at the same time, a significant effort is being made to retrain schools throughout the country. This is the balance that we guarantee and that we intend to find: the balance between ensuring the present and not mortgage the future. This is what we are talking about this year about restoring balance: the balance between the security and the right of students to learn and not to hypothesize their future, the balance between the security and the right of children to be children and to play. This is what the government has done, in a timely and competent manner, without utopias or dramatism, minimizing uncertainty and having humility to adapt the measures, in relation to the different scenarios, in partnership with schools, with the entire educational community, to create a climate of confidence that allows us to return our students to the right to education and to their future. in this debate, it is fundamental that we can discuss the security conditions for all in schools, but it is also essential that we can contribute to the creation of conditions of trust, so that the school environment is a suitable medium, where students can learn. It is good to remember that it is good for us all to fight the pandemic, but it is also good for us to fight fear and to remember that there is no greater risk at this time than to leave children at home another school year. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-10.u44	Mr Bebiana Cunha, from the Parliamentary Group of the PAN, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-10.u45	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Government Members : There is no doubt about the evidence given by educational communities in the high adaptation they have made over the course of this time, there is no doubt that they have the legitimate right to have clear guidelines for the operation of schools, there is no doubt that they need the support of the Ministry of Education in implementing the necessary prevention and monitoring measures. So far, the government will certainly agree with us. But yesterday, Mr Prime Minister said that we have to keep this pandemic under control and that this requires a huge discipline on the part of all of us. What we would really like to know is how there can be discipline without consistent and consistent rules. And we ask: is it consistent to require a minimum distance of 2 m in certain contexts and, in schools, 1 m or, quoting the standard, "what is possible"? in this sense, several school directors have warned that it is impossible to ensure the minimum distance within the classroom. It seems to us that the Minister of Education, in view of the inconsistencies, takes refuge in the argument of the use of the mask, while wasting the opportunity to reduce the number of students by class, claiming that children will be protected by the use of the mask. But we have already seen this film happen before: the rules are changed, when it is interested to spread needs. In March, even when masks were missing, it was said that these were not important, now, as there is no space, the distance is reduced rather than the number of people in the classroom context. So what are we staying on? Two meters, one meter or whatever? Oh, my God! Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members, the risk of contagion at this current stage is higher in age groups from 20 to 39 and from 40 to 59 years old, which coincides precisely with the ages of teachers, non-teachers and even families. The truth is that 2 million people will resume this activity and the government communicated the rules to schools on 4 September, considering that 10 days were enough to be able to implement and ensure that everything went well. This, of course, because you know that educational communities will do everything they can to make it all right. But what we want to know is whether the government will do its part. It is that this is the same government that does not directly involve schools in decision-making processes, that does not promote the strengthening of operational assistants in sufficient numbers for the increase of tasks and the extension of hours in schools and that does not affect the balance between health protection and the healthy development of our children and young people. This is also the same government that, with rules of confinement in the classroom, will retain 28 students between four walls, who will only be able to leave at short intervals, once in the morning and again in the afternoon. This is clearly limiting the development of our children, it also prevents the renewal of the air and, of course, will impact very negatively on the behavior, learning and mental health of children and young people. These 5-minute intervals, one in the morning and one in the afternoon, collide, in our understanding, very clearly with those that are the right needs for learning processes. Furthermore, on Monday, we had the opportunity to see the presentation of the position of several specialists who simulated mathematical models, which show that the reduction of personal contacts is essential to reduce the risk of transmission and even to avoid a second wave. But this is not done with 28 students inside the room or with a strangulation of the intervals, it is framed, finding suitable solutions for both the spaces, either for the hours, or also for the modes of organization that allow to enjoy the leisure outdoors. The truth is that the government has said that no one supports a new confinement, but chooses to confine our children, young people and teachers to schools. And at the same time, it still requires children as small as those who first enter preschool or 1. the cycle, are obliged to a process of unaccompanied transition of parents, mothers or other significant persons on the first day or at an initial stage. in this sense, the NAP has already made a recommendation to the Government to revise this guideline, because these transitions are not made by force, they are not imposed in this way. It is essential for us to ensure the well-being of children and that the process of adaptation of those who arrive for the first time in pre-school and 1. the cycle occurs in a balanced way. Finally, we can only conclude by saying that the Ministry of Education does not want to make much-needed structural changes to educational policies, needs that the health crisis has only been exposed, such as the review and reduction of programmatic content, as well as the reduction in the number of students per class.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-10.u46	You now have the floor for the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Joana Mortagua.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-10.u47	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : I think there is a conclusion that we can already draw in the middle of this debate: no one here doubt that schools will do everything they can to ensure the safety of children, to ensure the safety of young people. Knowing that schools are doing everything they can, there is a security message on the return to the presence classes that have to leave this Parliament and the Left Block wants to participate in this message. That does not mean, however, that the Government has done everything within its power to prepare for the beginning of this school year and certainly has not done so in solving structural problems to which this pandemic has been overcome, exacerbating these same problems. I want to talk about two in particular, one of which has to do with the aging of the teaching class, which causes us to be in the front line of the pandemic—because teachers and education professionals, from September onwards, will also be on the front line—a large majority of teachers who, by their age, naturally have a higher propensity to belong to risk groups. These teachers, due to the characteristics of their profession, are not only exposed to people as they are exposed to 25, 28, 30 teenagers within a room that is not dimensioned to keep them inside with the distance of security. And they do it for many hours of the day. Therefore, it is natural and legitimate to realize that there is here, for risk groups, a situation in which these professionals feel in danger. What's going to happen to these people? It seems reasonable to me to consider that, although these teachers cannot be in the classrooms, they are not incapacitated for all the pedagogical work that can be developed within a school. They can individually accompany students, they can even follow at a distance those students who, as well as belonging to risk groups, need follow-up and cannot go to classes. And now, for these, we do not understand what kind of follow-up there is. However, what the Ministry has said is that it is everything or nothing, that is, for risk groups the only solution will be the low. Now, what schools are afraid of, and we are also afraid, is that a dropout, in a class that is already aged and which is also with a large incidence of burnout, is exacerbating the situation of lack of teachers, especially in some recruitment groups that no longer have teachers available. And here we have to say that the problem is not only solved with the replacement mechanism, the problem is not solved with just a few incomplete hours, with some time supplements, telling the teachers of Porto or Minho who come to lecture for Lisbon or who will teach for Santiago do Cacem with incomplete hours. The problem is that there are groups that no longer have teachers available even in initial placement. The Group 220, of Portuguese and English, 300, of Portuguese, that of ICT (Information and Communication Technologies), which is the computer group, no longer have teachers available and, for them, structural solutions are needed, incentives for these teachers to enter the system again. at this time, we will need more teachers and not less, because we will need more support, because it is going to be necessary to teach classes that have out-of-date hours—for students to have out-of-date hours, teachers also have to have, because there will be a need, on suspicions of cases, for some classes to go home, for quarantine, and it is also not expected how these classes will have lessons at a distance. So we need more teachers and not less teachers. The government announced the 2500 contract, but how many have been reformed in this period? What is the significant and effective increase of teachers? The problem — it seems to us — is that teachers who are now going to the front line have no back-up, and this is a problem that the Ministry should have solved in time. The same is true of employees. Seven months ago, the Ministry of Education has been reviewing the gate of relations, in the face of the lack of employees who already existed and had schools closed before the pandemic. Now, the guidelines that come from the Ministry itself say that it is necessary to extend school hours, that it is necessary to strengthen the hygiene of restaurants and spaces, until they say that two teams of employees need to have, if there is a disease or, let's say, an outbreak of absenteeism. Well, schools have no employees for this or for much less than this. António Arroio, for example, is an artistic school with workshops, laboratories, etc. , which has 13 000 m2, on six floors, and 50 classes, currently has 22 operational assistants. There are schools with 80 children who have assigned two operational assistants. The gate of ratios is to be reviewed seven months ago. Therefore, to say that the government has prepared early the return to classes would no longer be true in times of normality, much less in times of pandemic, with problems that were foreseeable. What we understand is that the guidelines began to be given late, the preparation began late and there were structural problems that should have been attended with much more attention and much more responsibility.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-10.u48	Mrs. Deputy, you've outlived your time. He wants to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-10.u49	I'm done now, Mr. President. As far as the government is concerned, there was a great margin for « soon to be seen », which represents a risk to schools because they will have to manage this risk. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-10.u50	For the Parliamentary Group of the CFP, Mrs Ana Mesquita spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-10.u51	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is time to return to face-to-face education. More than ever, this must be the time of a truly public school, free, universal, quality, democratic and for all. The role of teachers in the classroom is essential in the follow-up of students. Interaction in the real world is an essential condition for the formation of the individual and the socialization of the human being. The CFP considers that present education has a centrality and importance in the teaching-learning process that is not replaced by experiences at a distance. Therefore, the exception that occurred in the past school year cannot be the rule. Normalizing the teaching-learning process and recovering delays is possible and necessary, but requires strict measures to ensure all safety standards to protect the health of students, teachers and all education workers. The inequality in life that guides the day-to-day lives of many students outside the school conditioned many in the follow-up of the subjects taught during the exceptional measures. Equality, which only the public school promotes, is therefore also an urgent right to be fully met.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-10.u52	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-10.u53	The proposal that the CFP advocates is the clear strengthening of public school, in the immediate and in the future. And it is not with statements of intent or dubious guidance, it is even with more means! More investment is needed, more workers, more technical and material means, better school park. If, before, the reduction in the number of students per class, so many times proposed by the PCP, it was, for a long time, necessary, now, it is more than urgent. If the strengthening of school social action was already pressing, with the worsening of the economic and social situation, it is urgent to extend the universe of subjects and the support granted. And democracy, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, you can't forget. There must be dialogue with the various educational actors, particularly with the unions, ensuring respect for collective bargaining, especially in matters that are mandatory negotiation. Also the processes of participation of students cannot be embedded in the drawer. The PCP does not give to the petition for the attack on public school. But there are too many questions to be answered by the government. at this time, how many teachers, of the strengthening promised by the government, have been effectively hired? And how many are going to get out? We know the balance is negative. And there are so many outside the system, who went out because they were tired of the precariousness and could be recaptured because they are effective needs of the public school... Why does the Government dismiss workers hired in 2017 and to whom contracts have been extended in a context where they are more than ever needed? Why do the announced numbers of contracts not even compensate for retirement exits and projected lows on health issues? In a context where about 5,000 assistants were already missing, how do these government options explain? If researchers point out as priority measures the reduction of contacts between students, the non-use of the same spaces, the systematic disinfection of classrooms, the control of the use of masks, how can this be done without sufficient workers? Where, in particular, is such a strengthening of specialized technicians, administrative technicians and senior technicians? Considering the degradation of mental health of many young people, due to the confinement to which they were subjected, after all, how many psychologists will be strengthening schools on the first day of school? How will the development of safe activities of free time occupation and practice of physical education and school sport be ensured, which are fundamental to a question not only of physical health but also of mental health, under appropriate health conditions and that exceed individual practice in the room? How, rather than simply saying that there are no lessons with instruments or that materials are not shared at the level of music, does respect for the specificities of art teaching and artistic education, as well as those of professional education, be guaranteed? How will special education and inclusive school have all the necessary resources, combating segregation, when there were so many difficulties in this stage of exceptional measures and so much lack of education at this time of what parents and teachers tell us? Besides masks and disinfectants, they are also needed visors, gloves, dresses, aprons, among other personal protective equipment. How is it possible—and it hasn't even started the school year! — are there any schools already expecting that the money will not come to everything? How can there be managers to equalize children to replace workers in the cleaning of rooms and prohibit going to the bathroom at intervals? How many years do we go back with these ideas? And what does the government say to this? The deficiencies identified today in schools are not only the result of an unforeseen pandemic, they are the result of many years of devaluation of public school, of the underfinancing to which it has been subjected, of the lack of workers at all levels, which is now also added to the existence of workers belonging to risk groups, a situation that we need to know how it will be solved. It is up to the Ministry of Education to present very clear solutions and guidelines that eliminate factors of uncertainty and reassure families. And yesterday it was already late, because the delay is already great. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-10.u54	Mrs Ana Rita Bessa of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-10.u55	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: It seems to be consensual—in fact, we already knew it and the OECD itself also defended it yesterday in the Education at a Glance report—that the return to present classes is fundamental. It is essential because, as we have already seen, it is beneficial for students in all dimensions, learning, socialization and correction of inequalities. But it is also fundamental and beneficial to the economy. Returning to school is a critical part so that parents can go to work and that the country resumes its activity. Schools, therefore, must even be a safe space, must be reliable for students, parents and educators. And in the different types and real limitations that our schools have of space, of human and financial resources, we know that, together with the authorities, they have sought to prepare themselves and I know that they will open for the week with the firm purpose of teaching in security. the parents will be able to comply with public health rules, trust and accept an inevitable risk margin. students will be relevant to maintaining the learning process, incorporating new habits of hygiene and living, realizing that the limitations they will be asked to protect them, their friends and their families. And teachers will have the opportunity to demonstrate to the country their fundamental role, because they will be the new front line that will ensure that these generations will no longer lose in their formation. And if everyone has a role, the government also has its own, in a task that we know and recognize is not easy, but to which the government could never miss. We hoped that he would learn from what happened in the confinement—and we remember that many schools began closing before the confinement itself. And we also hoped that the government would have learned how the confinement took place and that it would have incorporated all of this into a complete, time-consuming school plan, which the CDS urged many months ago. But in the days of the beginning, there are many doubts that are relevant, there are no solutions, some of the proposals fail, including those with which the government itself has committed itself. Furthermore, a few days ago, we received the guidelines from the Directorate-General for Health in a document setting out what happens in the case of a student's or an educator's injuries. It is a document full of flowcharts, which are generic for any context, which has no objective parameters defined for school reality...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-10.u56	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-10.u57	... and that it sends to the health authorities casuistic decisions, as if these health authorities—and we know them already on the ground—have infinite resources and agility. In the absence of the Minister today, I ask you, Mr Under-Secretary of State and Education, the following: if the student of a class is not all students of that class, according to the very definition of DGS, high-risk contacts and should therefore not be all tested, not only to reassure parents but also because they were surely in contact with their brothers and others? How do you intend to break transmission chains and avoid spreading in the community without doing this test? If this class is home — prophylactically, for example, isolated — how will the educational continuity be guaranteed? Is it going to be with this enormous innovation of the 21st century that is teleschool, that you announced yesterday again? Oh, my God! ...Where did the digital transition get, which I well remember hearing Mr. Prime Minister say would be the great progress for the next school year? Where's the computer for the student, which was promised on April 9th?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-10.u58	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-10.u59	It is that, of the 1 million computers promised at that time of tightening, we are now going to have about 100,000 computers, perhaps during the first period—we don't know, we'll see. And even those about 1000 computers, which will serve the 10 pilot schools of digitization, have not yet arrived. Now, you can't pass a prime minister making an ad to the country of 1 million computers for September, nothing happens and we all whistle to the side as if it didn't mean anything at all.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-10.u60	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-10.u61	And what will happen to the brothers of these students and their parents? Are you going to stay home? Are you going to stay at home with what support? What about those students? What's the process? Who are they supposed to talk to? We also know that there are many families who, to survive, have to go to work and that, if they do not have support, they will not stay at home and, if they do not stay at home, spread in the community will happen. None of these processes have a response in DGS documents or in the Ministry of Education documents. Schools will probably be very safe places by the week. But, as in the home, the government did not have a cross-sectional approach to returning to classes, it did not set clear parameters for testing, it did not establish the criteria for supporting families, it does not guarantee classes to those who have the chance of getting infected or in prophylactic isolation. The Government did not prejudge the transport system in good time, did not learn, did not prepare properly, did not prepare in good time. And the cost of this lack of government is going to be placed on all of us. And this time, Mr. State Secretaries, they can't say they weren't waiting! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-10.u62	For an intervention, you now have the floor of Mrs Mariana Silva of the ENP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-10.u63	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: We are a few days from the beginning of the school year 2020 - 2021, a very important moment for all. As has already been said today, there are several plans, with different scenarios. But there are also parents and students who do not yet know their time and the conditions in which they will go through their new school year. Many are the doubts for which there is no answer, some because it is not possible to predict them in the current scenario, others because the Ministry of Education resigns itself from thinking and solving. However, we consider it very important for the school to resume its role, one of the noblest of all, that is to educate and teach. The noblest of all that public school offers to everyone, without exceptions or exclusions. It is important for teachers and for all professionals who perform in the professions they have chosen and who, in the previous school year, did everything to keep the students connected to the school and to the intended contents. Beyond the difficulties that may exist, uncertainty and fear, it is important for parents to see their children and educators supplant another phase, grow and socialize. But it is particularly important for children and young people who, in school, develop in a healthy, equal and equitable manner. The school exists—and it is never too much remembered—on account of them, of the students. Without them, school makes no sense. The school is not just learning, it is education, socialization, it is contact. Nothing replaces the present classes in school, with a close link to teachers—especially with students with special educational needs—which identify the difficulties and capacities they adapt, which accompany closely. What happened in the third period of last school year, however we knew that it was necessary because of the health prevention measures that the epidemic required, was not a success. No, it wasn't all right. It was a lesser evil, with a great effort and dedication of teachers, families and even students, but with effects that are difficult to calculate. Returning to school, with all security guarantees, is essential. Thus, returning to school, with all guarantees, requires the hiring of more teachers and unworked classes, so that closer follow-up of students is possible to fill difficulties at all levels; requires the hiring of more employees so that it is possible to ensure the hygiene of all spaces regularly and frequently; requires more means and more investment. Masks will be needed for teachers and students, as well as disinfectant carpets and individual protective material for employees. Investment will be required to buy individual tables, divisions or other materials. Is the Ministry doing the necessary financial reinforcement to meet the needs of a mostly aged and degraded school park? Starting with all safety rules requires the reduction of the number of students per class; it requires finding solutions for physical education and sport practice, which are not compatible with degraded indoor and outdoor spaces; it requires solutions that take into account the children's own nature and their right to play, dream, joy. The isolation that the pandemic situation caused has effects that are not fully evaluated and should be at the top of the priorities the concern for the mental health of students. We therefore believe that it is necessary and urgent to strengthen support and psychological monitoring teams, not only to react to problems, but to detect them early. Returning to school requires, on the other hand, the strengthening of social action at school. With the economic and social problems on the rise, what we have had so far is not enough. With the redundancies we are attending, there will be families who today have stable financial conditions and who, one day at a time, will be homeless. Above all, it is necessary to speed up respect for the new situations. It is necessary to ensure quality in school meals so that no child is hungry and, in the case of schools opting for meals to take home, it is necessary to promote the use of reusable boxes rather than disposable single-use packages. It is necessary to ensure that public transport or school transport is adequately suited to the new safety measures required. It is essential to ensure sufficient and safe public transport for students across the country. To ensure the proper functioning of the school in the coming school year, it is necessary to value its workers — teachers, assistants, senior technicians. Yes, it is necessary to guarantee their rights and the value of their wages and careers. There are many issues that need clear government answers. Finally, will the Ministry of Education now take advantage of the opportunity for content on public health, which is so necessary in the present and in the future, to be addressed in education in Portugal? Or how long do we have to wait?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-10.u64	Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-10.u65	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, Mr. Members: I would not like to spend this return of the 'liberal minute' to repeat many of the examples that have been given, for which, at one week of the start of the classes, everyone, without exception — parents, students, teachers and employees — has doubts and anxieties and nobody has confidence and confidence. This is a good time to give schools back true freedom and autonomy to, of course, within the technical and health guidelines that they justify, decide on matters they know better than anyone else, because it is the schools and families who, in fact, better know the context in which they are, the students they have and the particular problems they face. But for that, it was necessary that the guidelines of the Ministry of Education had come out in time. Flexibility in the rules, in order to prevent the closure of schools, and the weighting that was necessary, for the benefit of students and their right to education, are now in fact damaged. Students have already lost half a year, with impacts on their mental health and development, because the time needed to recover learning is — all studies indicate it — very long. We can't have the students out of school any longer. It is consensual that this mainly affects the most disadvantaged, thus increasing inequalities that are already large, and breaking the social elevator that the school should be. I know that children and young people do not vote or bother like unions, but I ask the government not to give in to union pressures—which will be many—because this is not just a liberal idea, it is a sensible idea: put the interests of the students first.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-10.u66	On behalf of the Government, the floor is Mr. Under-Secretary of State and Education, João Costa, for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-10.u67	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There is no doubt that this is probably the most difficult school year that many professionals and many of us have memories. The difficulty is the reality, which contrasts with the certainties, the certainties that were brought by the PSD, the certainties that were affirmed by Mrs Bebiana Cunha. These certainties contrast with the complexity of the day-to-day life that we're going to be managing. It's fake that we're late. Since 3 July, there have been guidelines in schools on the organization of spaces, on the organization of classes, on transition models, if necessary, for other schemes other than the present regime. Guidance was provided for the consolidation and recovery of learning, guidelines on the curriculum and centrality of essential learnings, as an effort to reduce curriculum, so that we could have a greater focus on dimensions that are absolutely essential for progression and recovery in learnings. throughout the whole of 3. the period, we produce, together with the schools, but not only by schools, platforms, training, resources, support. Meetings with all directors of the country are recurrent. Yesterday, with the Director-General of Health and the Secretary of State of Health, we had the opportunity to clarify and open more channels of communication. Now, we know that we are managing a health issue, but above all we are managing a question of balance to ensure health in a context where the physical capacity of schools is not doubled by miracle, in which the number of professionals available does not appear by spontaneous generation, but in which we have much more affected means, as my State Secretary colleague will state. We know more about the disease than we did in March. Just listen to the experts. We are managing three realities: health, education and the right to education — welcoming this consensual recognition that we cannot have children at home again — and also fear. And in order to manage fear well, we must trust professionals, monitor, give autonomy, give guidance, give means, and that is what we have done. With the permission of Mr President, I would like to speak to the Secretary of State for Education to set out some measures. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-10.u68	Even for an intervention on behalf of the Government, Mr. Secretary of State for Education, Susana Amador.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-10.u69	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues of the Government : It is true that this school year will be of great complexity and great adversity, this debate and its motto are very timely, which is the proper functioning of the school year. That is what we are all committed to, and it is for this purpose that the whole society is also called. It was therefore necessary to plan, organize and strengthen further. Contrary to what was said, we planned early, organized early, strengthened in time and immediately communicated the main guidelines to the country at a press conference on 3 July. Therefore, the lack of information did not exist, the lack of planning or organisation did not exist either, knowing that we are daily making this reinforcement and this continuous improvement, in an area where resources are not infinite, but where they will be optimized and enhanced to the maximum, at work, in partnership and in partnership with all the actors in the sector. I would like to tell you that we left for this school year with an experience gained, because we reopened the present regime no 3. the period for 11. o and 12. the year and for the pre-school, with cases of residual COVID-19 in a universe of 200,000. Throughout the year and throughout the state of emergency, we ensured meals to more than one and a half million students. They have been open reference schools, always with the control of the pandemic totally under our aegis, without cases of greater, especially with the school fulfilling its unreplaceable social role. And so it will be, because school is not just learning, it is not just educating. The school is social protection, it's social radar every day. I mean, ladies and gentlemen. Members, that this experience of reopening, with the national examinations, which have been carried out with the highest regularity, without cases and without disturbance, with more than 200,000 tests carried out, in a period of cases and pandemic situation, with all this preparation and all this history done, gives us additional conditions and confidence to say that we are preparing and that we have the necessary means for this school year to be carried out as recommended to UNICEF (United Nations Children's Fund ), UNESCO ( United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization ) and all international bodies, i.e. in the present system, because only this is the guarantor of equal opportunities and only the presence guarantees relations and guarantees what we want: an inclusive school for all and with everyone. Throughout this period, which began on 3 July, guidelines made by DGE ( Directorate-General for School Establishments ) and DGS arrived at schools for the organization of school space and meals, contingency plans, health measures. All 812 groups received these guidelines on 3 July, I repeat, to realize that for months this information has existed with the group directors. at the same time, working with them, we guarantee protection and security for the opening of the school year,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-10.u70	The Secretary of State has already exceeded her time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-10.u71	... with EUR 7 million for individual protection, which will be EUR 20 million throughout the period of education. It will be appropriate, it will be the necessary value, there will be no missing masks, no face, no other kind of material, and there will be more human resources.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-10.u72	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-10.u73	Mr President, I shall conclude immediately with your tolerance. We have more teachers placed, more linked teachers and 38% of vacancies in this competition for teachers. The competition is already running for 700 professionals and the office is being reviewed.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-10.u74	Mr. Secretary of State, my tolerance is the same for all those who take part in this meeting. I'm asking you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-10.u75	Thank you very much, Mr President. We all have a strengthened social action. 6 million vouchers have already been issued for the purchase of free manuals for all children. This is the school in which we believe, strengthened, with an environment of confidence and security, for which we all count. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-10.u76	We will enter the last point of our agenda, which is a debate, marked by the CDS-PP, about the outbreaks of COVID-19 recorded in the homes of the elderly. Mr João Almeida has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-10.u77	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : I think the reason for being this agenda of the CDS is understandable to all. It has nothing to do with the case of any specific home, especially those that have been most spoken of in recent times, nor with the reality that lived in the homes during the summer. It has to do with a structural issue in the fight against pandemic, which is the problem of, for both the elderly and the homes, there is an incidence and risk greater than the generality of the population. Therefore, the fact that there are still problems justifies that, in this first debate of Parliament after the summer, we pay particular attention to what is happening in the homes. from the CDS, this is not even the first time we do it. Since the beginning of the pandemic, whether through draft resolutions, or through interpellation to the government, we have always brought the problem of homes, alerting what was going on—and it has happened since the beginning. I've got news here on March 24th and March 26th. We all remember what happened in the home of Vila Real, probably the one who had first media attention. All these months have passed and, unfortunately, what the officials at the time said at home of Vila Real, who was « help us! », it remains something we have heard in many homes throughout the country. The Government, the State, the country has not been able, during this period, to create the conditions for these situations to cease happening or at least be reduced in the homes. During the summer, much was said about the issue of Reg goings and, of course, the unfortunate interview of the Minister of Social Security, following what happened in Reg comings, helped get the subject under discussion. In this interview, the Minister said: "I am not talking about specific cases, I am only talking about the structural issue. » The problem is that the specific cases were at the time so many that the problem was evidently structural. In addition to the cases that existed at that time in Regundus, in which there were 162 cases and 18 deaths, there were: 100 cases and 24 cases killed in Matosinhos ; 88 cases and 8 cases killed in Vila Real ; 76 cases and 6 cases killed in Foz Côa; 41 cases and 2 cases killed in Alcobaça; 38 cases and 2 cases killed in Sintra; 87 cases and 1 cases killed in Caneças ; 47 cases and 1 death in S. Domingos de Rana ; and 55 more cases in another institution in Sintra and 50 in Alcabideche. So what the Minister thought was a problem of one home and another is, of course, a problem of the whole country and of all households. Even after the situation of Reg allos, of the most mediatic case, of Porto, there were cases in Santarém, there were cases in Alvarenga, Arouca, and there were cases in other places in the country that probably none of us know. And what do we know now? After all, the government will set up brigades. I am sorry, but I think this government decision is offensive at this time for everyone working in the homes, for the elderly living in the homes and for the families of these elderly people. Creating rapid intervention health care brigades is an emergency measure. How is an emergency measure taken six months after the problem starts? Oh, my God! If you need brigades — and they are! — How did the government only realize this after six months? Oh, my God! How come you didn't get that in time? How come you didn't create them immediately? How did you get involved in a word war with the Medical Order and all the doctors before you realized that it was in the government itself that you had to be the initiative to respond to this problem? So what we say is this: at this time, it is not enough to look at the problem of each home, we must realize that 40% of the total deaths in Portugal happen in the homes, that 45% of the active outbreaks are also in the homes, which unfortunately the existence of more than 100 active outbreaks has been the daily reality of the homes. In view of this, it is necessary to give an exemplary answer and an answer that does not remain for some brigades that have appeared now, when they should have appeared from the beginning. We need to ask what confidence we can have in those who have not noticed this from the beginning and if those who have not been able to solve this situation at the beginning will now solve it. It is very important that, at the moment, the Government is able not only to promote all the necessary measures, but above all to rehabilitate the credibility which, in the meantime, it has lost because it has dealt so badly with this situation and because it has not been able to respond to the most deserving of reply: the elderly, the most vulnerable, those who could never have stayed behind, six months, waiting for brigades that can save their lives. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-10.u78	Mr Diana Ferreira of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-10.u79	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members : The reality of the outbreak of COVID-19 has exposed a number of weaknesses and structural problems in our country in several areas, including in the responses of social equipment and, in particular, the homes for the elderly, who have been facing various problems for several years. The situation felt today in the homes for the elderly has merited attention, concern and intervention, at different times from the CFP, which questioned the government about the situations in the institutions of the Social Services and Equipment Network. We have already asked this question in March and we have also asked the Government about the situation in Matosinhos' home, or by the beginning of July, about the situation of the homes, particularly in the Evora district, to which, even today, the Government has not yet given any answer, even if the CFP insisted on the same question. It is clear to us that the development of contingency plans, as well as the existence of the means by each institution to achieve them, are fundamental aspects to ensuring the safety of the elderly population in the homes.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-10.u80	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-10.u81	As the first responsibility of the institutions for the preparation of contingency plans and the mobilization of means for their implementation, the Government also has responsibilities, of which it cannot, however, rule out the verification of these same plans as regards their implementation, but also of the conditions in the institutions to meet the needs of its users. It is essential that social security, especially through its means of inspection, check and ensure that, in each institution, adequate contingency plans exist and the means — human, material and other — for their implementation. It is essential that social security closely accompany the institutions, but we do not forget the impoverishment that has been made in social security from the point of view of its workers,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-10.u82	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-10.u83	... moreover, a loss of workers that the CFP has denounced, presenting proposals to be overcome. And this lack of workers is also seen today in the poor follow-up that social security gives to this same matter. It is also essential that the institutions comply, of course, with their obligations in drawing up contingency plans, ensuring conditions for the provision of quality care for the elderly and also in the human resources in sufficient numbers to meet the needs of the users. But we know that the lack of workers in the IPSS (private institutions of social solidarity) is not a reality today. In this context, it is also important for workers of these institutions to be properly valued and to have access to personal protective equipment so that they can perform their functions in conditions of hygiene, health and safety. We also do not ignore that the reality of IPSS is quite different and that there are institutions that face deep problems, that occurred well before the outbreak and that have been exposed and deepened in this context, and that these differentiated realities must be taken into account in the measures to be taken with each institution. It is, of course, necessary to ensure an immediate response to the problem by implementing measures to prevent and prevent what is happening today in the homes, measures to ensure the rapid mobilization of the resources necessary to combat the outbreaks that have occurred in this context. It is necessary to respond to problems and difficulties of conjuncural character for an exceptional picture such as what we live, but they need to be included in a response to structural problems that affect the network of equipment and services in the area of social action. This more immediate response, which enables the consequences of the outbreak to be mitigated, does not inhibit or conceal the need to take substantive and structural measures, the urgency of which is demonstrated precisely by the reality we are discussing today. A reality resulting from the political options of successive PSD, PS and CDS governments, which over the years have downloaded above the IPSS competences and responsibilities that should have been assumed by the State. The CFP recognizes the important role of the IPSS, but as a complement to the public responses to which the State is constitutionally bound and not replacing the State. The guarantee of social rights, including the existence of support equipment and services for the elderly, is a primary responsibility of the State. For the PCP, new solutions are needed that respond to structural problems that persist, are being dragged down and are getting worse over time. There are problems for users, families, social sector workers and even institutions that have not disappeared or been suspended, such as the lack of vacancies, with associated waiting lists, the isolation of many of these elderly people in these contexts, the problem of the so-called "illegal homes". All this, among other situations and other problems that remain, naturally has to have an answer. There is a need to strengthen the means of IPSS that currently manage the responses in this area so that quality of service is ensured to its users, but also to safeguard the rights of all its workers. It is necessary to carry out an appropriate articulation of all social responses to support the elderly in situations of illness and dependence, such as home support, homes, day centres and other responses. And it is necessary to extend the home network, with the creation of a public network, managed by the public sector. This is a fundamental answer to solve a wide range of problems and a path that the CFP will continue to defend. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-10.u84	I now give the floor to Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo of the Liberal Initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-10.u85	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members, last August 24 – therefore, just over two weeks ago – the home of the Maria Inácia Vogado Perdigão Silva Foundation, in Reg Kalles de Monsaraz, was visited by a monitoring team, composed of technicians from three public entities: social security, civil protection and the Regional Health Administration of Alentejo. Conclusion of this visit: the standards applied at home are adequate and sufficient to ensure the well-being of the users. Two months earlier, 18 people had died in that home: 18 people, 18 deaths, 18 families of mourning! Daughters, children, grandchildren, grandchildren, friends were deprived of a loved one. And the families of all these elderly—of Regants, as well as those mentioned here, of Alcobaça, Caneças, Viana do Castelo and so many other places— believed that the state would be able to control at least one home of the elderly. They believed that the State would be able, at least, to ensure that, in the homes, the standards of prevention of COVID-19 were met. But the state was unable. The State has failed and continues to fail with the most fragile, with those who are already lacking the strength to claim or demand more dignity, more care, more respect. Now all the forces are no longer missing, there is also the time, the days of life stolen by state incuria.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-10.u86	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-10.u87	So it was in Pedrogão, in Tanks, in the case of gorges and so it is now, again. This is the state we have and, worse, this is the state that the Socialist Party liked it to be growing.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-10.u88	For an intervention on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Clara Marques Mendes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-10.u89	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, Mr. Members: A few days ago, the Government announced the intention to set up 18 emergency brigades to support the elderly, if necessary. Paradoxically, this is a measure that speaks well of the disorientation that prevails in the government. This is a certain measure taken at the wrong time. This is a decision made six months after the pandemic arrives in Portugal,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-10.u90	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-10.u91	...which means that this measure should already have been taken four, five or six months ago.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-10.u92	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-10.u93	It was necessary to wait for dozens of outbreaks in the homes of elderly people to wake up. It was necessary to see the existence of several fatalities in order to give the Government a sign of sensitivity. There was a need for the shock of Reg durs' home to the government on the matter of the elderly to try to prove life. In other words, the government does not have the capacity to act, it simply reacts, always the tow of events, always after fatality. Mrs. Members, in the homes of the elderly, there are fragile, vulnerable, especially sensitive and very dependent people, people who need special affection, attention, dedication and competence. They are citizens with every right to be happy and to live in dignity. They are poor citizens who require a lot of effort in monitoring. They are men and women who rarely complain and who can hardly make their voice heard. That is precisely why we do not provide any more support, greater sensitivity and renewed solidarity.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-10.u94	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-10.u95	In the elderly, there are employees who daily do a commendable job to maintain the safety, health and well-being of the elderly. That's why, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are outraged that there has not been, at least since the beginning of the pandemic, a strategy or programme of a comprehensive and coherent action for the elderly. What we all see — what we all see — is navigation in sight, with one or another punctual measure, torn apart, assumed, usually late and late. That is why we are outraged at the lack of cooperation and linkage between the health sector and the sector of solidarity and social security. The elderly always stay behind, always in the background. That is why we are outraged at the case of Reg ALLES home, where everything failed: the State's surveillance failed before the tragedy, the Directorate-General of Health failed during the tragedy, Minister Ana Mendes Godinho failed at the end of the tragedy. The problem, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is unfortunately not only Reg going home. As mentioned earlier, we are faced with very serious situations in our homes every day. The truth is that the government, with the will to hide everything and to clarify nothing, was unable to draw up the illusions of these events and was unable to learn lessons for the future. That is why we are outraged by the lack of investment in this sector, in homes of elderly people or even in the benefit of existing homes, and the lack of a broader and more effective home care network. That is why we are outraged by the government not being able to make all entities, particularly the Union of Portuguese Mercy and the National Confederation of Solidarity Institutions, the real partners for this work, which is national, priority and urgent. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members, this matter is of paramount importance and requires the cooperation of all — in society, in the state, in the government and in the opposition, from right to left — so here in Parliament we will propose the creation of a subcommittee to monitor the situation of third-country households, in which there is a real link between the Committee on Labour and Social Security and the Committee on Health. After all, this matter, now more than ever, needs to be on the political and parliamentary agenda. The elderly, now more than ever, require our greater attention and sensitivity. After all, the cause of old age, now more than ever before, requires priority in attitude, decision and solidarity. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-10.u96	It is the turn of the Left Block Parliamentary Group. Mr. Moisés Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-10.u97	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr.a and Mr. Secretary of State: Forty percent of deaths by COVID-19, in Portugal, occurred in homes. Since March, dozens of active outbreaks have been registered in homes. currently, there are 25 outbreaks with about 900 infected in homes in Portugal. No one can be indifferent to these facts, as no one can be indifferent to the situations that have been reported and that we have seen and heard in Reg Runs of Monsaraz, in the Home of Trade, in Matosinhos, in the Home of Mercy, in Aveiro, in the Home of Montepio, in the Port, among so many others, where unfortunately many people have died. Hundreds of infected, high rates of lethality, lack of resources, many doubts, in many cases, about the care effectively provided to the users of those homes: no one can be indifferent! But the truth is that the problem of homes was not created by the COVID, the problems already existed. Did COVID make problems worse? Certainly, he exacerbated them and explained them, and today they are much more visible, but already existed and are, indeed, intrinsic to the model itself. This is because the total outsourcing of the response, in which the State is left solely with the financing role, without monitoring and without responding, is a problem that already existed. EUR 600 million per year is spent on IPSS agreements for answers in the area of old age, but the quality of this response will not always be measured and that is a problem. The institutionalization model itself that exists, with an architecture and organization of space where there can be no individual space, distance, isolation in case of suspected infection or disease, is a problem that already existed and was exacerbated. Also the lack of professionals, low wages and precariousness of these professionals, their excessive turnover is a problem that already existed and that has been exacerbated. This is a very relevant fact, indeed, because when we talk about the precariousness of these professionals we often talk about the multi-employment and the problem that this brings too, because these workers can be the vectors that carry the virus from one place to another. The poor response, as far as health care is concerned in many of these homes, was a problem that already existed and was exacerbated. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, therefore, we all have an obligation to look at all this, if we want first to prevent a possible second wave from having the same impact as the first one had on home users and, secondly, on a longer-term objective, if we want to build another model, more humanized and more quality of life for these people. Therefore, the country needs to set up teams to monitor, monitor and monitor the homes, certainly to ensure that all the rules of the Directorate-General for Health are applied and met, certainly, to ensure that the conditions are sufficient and that users have access to the necessary health care, certainly. It is necessary to ensure the testing of users and workers of these homes, of course, at all times, as it is necessary to ensure the creation of alternative spaces when they are without conditions and the creation of public responses to be alternatives to these homes. It is necessary to monitor the professionals of the National Health Service itself, of course, but also the hiring of professionals who, in the state, should ensure this response and also take care of these users. It is also necessary to increase the requirement of the number of professionals and the working conditions of the homes and to ensure the provision of care by the same households. The public recruitment of teams that allow home users who should not be institutionalized and which could be deinstitutionalised should be an objective. In conclusion, intervention in households at a time when cases of infection are increasing in Europe and Portugal is a priority. But this is done not only with DGS standards, but with more professionals and more state to safeguard the rights of these citizens, users of these residential structures; more professionals in the home teams; more professionals and more state to build public responses; more professionals and more state to deinstitutionalize and allow monitoring and care at home; more state because it is up to the State to guarantee the fundamental rights of all, but all people. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-10.u98	I have the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the PAN, Mrs Bebiana Cunha.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-10.u99	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Since March, we know that the elderly are a high-risk group at COVID-19 and we also know that it was necessary to guarantee their health and life. But we are in September and we continue to lack our elderly people properly respected and properly protected. On the other hand, only today, Mr Prime Minister has come to commit himself to the rapid intervention brigades. It is clear that contingency plans cannot only be papers with guidance, disclosed on a DGS website. They must be accompanied by plans from the beginning of their preparation until their effective implementation. The strengthening of public health specialists, whether they are doctors, nurses or other professionals specialists in this area, cannot be forgotten on the 2020 Supplementary Budget pages. These contracts shall be carried out as soon as possible. But in Portugal, it is still reacting much more than planning. In the recent case of Fonte Serreã, after identifying positive cases, there was too much time to find solutions for the elderly and, unfortunately, this is not a single case. These flows cannot be created in time, must be pre-defined and prepared. What we would like to see today is precisely the reason why it is not identified and previously established who will be available for the reception of elderly home users, as long as it is necessary to travel, in order to ensure the protection of our elderly. The fundamental human reinforcements found by the Ministry — in this case, of Social Security — to ensure the replacement of staff are important, but knowledge and experience cannot be reversed. On the other hand, it is also not entirely admissible, which continues to realize that we have elderly people suffering from dehydration, decompensation of medication and even lack of hygiene. In addition to the disorientation and distress experienced by these elderly individuals, there are even cases of lack of hygiene care which is completely unacceptable. Is it important to realize today that the guidelines set by the Government so far are giving the right answer to our elderly people? Since March, the NAP has been calling for a specific plan for the elderly population. Above all, we believe that the government cannot be quiet on the basis of the standards disclosed on the DGS website without an efficient inter-ministerial linkage, as well as a true approach to people and the Real Country. The institutions that receive the elderly have been very unsupported in both construction and implementation of their contingency plans. The responsibility of what has been happening all along in the homes cannot fall solely in its direction. But we cannot accept that an authority would say that it is not up to it to cooperate in solving problems with the elderly in its community. It's obviously everyone's duty. But it is essential that equipment for older age be safe places. Not planning and predicting all needs from the beginning, not conjugating all possible responses in the community is failure in prevention, it is failing these people. It's the difference between life and death of these people. On the other hand, we must remember that families need information and the elderly need to follow up on their significant ones. Services need means to be able to respond to families. What we know is that our elderly cannot be left to give up or die alone. In addition, the NAP has already directed a number of questions about cases where this has actually happened. Balanced solutions have to be found between the health care and the social. Of course, the problems in our homes don't come from now on. The current health context only exposed the difficulties that already existed, now aggravated by new needs and new procedures. From the perspective of the NAP, there are clearly no diversified responses for the elderly in Portugal. Some will always require very specialized care, others will require more social responses, many simply need works at home to make their lives easier, and others, completely autonomous, will need innovative and respectful answers to the phase of life in which they are. In any case, as a society, as political decision-makers we have an obligation to do everything in order to guarantee them the security and dignity which is due them by law.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-10.u100	Mrs Mariana Silva, from the ENP, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-10.u101	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The COVID-19 virus has brought various and different challenges and has served, in certain areas, to highlight the many weaknesses. The elderly, belonging to the risk group and being naturally more vulnerable, as data show that 77% of deaths occurred in people over 80 years of age, require differentiated monitoring and investment at all levels. The way we treat and care for our elderly was somehow naked with the problems faced by the homes of the elderly in their routines. It has become evident a scenario, often hidden and ignored, of structural problems in homes that receive thousands of elderly people. Many of these equipments are overcrowded and deprived of human resources and resources, which undermines the very conditions in which many elderly people live. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in the early phase of the pandemic when no outbreaks had yet been detected in homes, the Ecological Party "The Greens", presented a draft resolution to strengthen the protection of users to the COVID-19 in the homes of the elderly, recommending, among other things, the urgent need to take the look at the COVID-19, to ensure the material of individual protection, the reorganization of spaces or to produce clear information and precise standards on practices, care and actions in case of suspected infection, directed to the homes of the elderly in particular. The fact is that the concerns of the Greens, unfortunately, have been confirmed. If the virus was initially completely unknown, the way it spreads and its consequences, today, in view of the research and literature that has been produced worldwide, although we do not have a safe and effective vaccine or treatment for the disease, it is already possible to outline measures to make the homes safe and capable of offering the quality of life that is expected at this stage. Unfortunately, however, the latest reports indicate that there is a lack of control of home users' infections, when it was expected that all these months would have served to meet the conditions. It will not be alien to these outbreaks to spread the virus by the community, but the structural weaknesses of many of the homes are determining, from the outset, the lack of space, means, of human resources such as geriatric assistants, nurses, doctors and psychologists in appropriate numbers. It is not clear, therefore, that the strengthening of support teams has not yet occurred, since the lack of human resources continues to overload the workers of these equipment after an intense phase of work and fear of the unknown, in which many have been forced to work. We do not forget that many of these workers were asked to work hours and days in a boarding school and often under inhuman conditions, not forgetting that many of them receive only the national minimum wage and are at this time tired and demotivated. Is the government aware of the lack of human resources in our homes? How many geriatric assistants and nurses are expected to be missing in homes throughout the country? We believe that the growth in the number of outbreaks in homes will also not be different from the lack of training of volunteers and other workers who have been and are placed through government programmes to mitigate the lack of human resources, being questionable the quality of the service that is provided to users, as evidenced by users and their family members. Does the Government believe that the use of volunteering and workers when there is a clear lack of adequate training for these people to deal with the elderly is the right answer? Since the pandemic that many of the elderly have been sent to absolute confinement, some still with autonomy, but subject to social isolation and the impossibility of direct contact with their relatives. If the situation has caused psychological damage, which is necessary to take care of, to maintain in isolation, the feeling of abandonment and loneliness may be a factor in worsening the health status of the elderly. It is emphasized that the visit and affectionate word of family members is the rare moment of joy and motivation for many elderly people who are at home. Having said that, we cannot continue to ignore the need for efficient and urgent answers.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-10.u102	I now give the floor to Mrs Marina Gonçalves of the PS Parliamentary Group for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-10.u103	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, Mr. Members: The pandemic we have been going through in recent months has led and leads to an increased requirement for all those who perform effective public service functions, safeguarding responses to the population. This applies in every quadrant of our life in society and also applies in the response given to the elderly, particularly those in homes. We therefore consider this fundamental debate to discuss the existing responses and the changes necessary to mitigate, even more, the effects of this pandemic in an already more fragile population. But we cannot help but wonder that the debate is taking place in the hands of the CDS-PP. The CDS, which has already spoken in moral decline of this government and which says that in the homes the basic is lacking, is the same CDS that, at the time it took on government functions together with the PSD, considered that the increase in social response was due to the increase of elderly per quarter, assuming that this measure constituted a reduction in the criteria of requirement.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-10.u104	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-10.u105	It's absurd!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-10.u106	And it is the same CDS, which together with the PSD, said, and I quote, « which makes no sense we are more rigorous with a social institution than we are with a commercial institution ». The CDS, which today underestimated the « bazauca » and the government's social and economic response, is the same CDS, which in the Government, together with the PSD, at a time of crisis took on the strategy of unjustified cuts in the social state, supporting the Portuguese people.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-10.u107	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-10.u108	That's why, sirs. Members, as we are all working to safeguard that the pandemic has a small impact on our country and our people, we cannot fail to highlight the demagogy of speech and the ease in which they forget the state in which they left the social response to the elderly.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-10.u109	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-10.u110	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, fortunately, it was the left-wing parliamentary parties who, already in the previous Parliament, worked to ensure better conditions in the homes, trying to reverse the consequences of budgetary saving measures that affect the social needs of our population. That was essential. It was essential to build a faster and more capable response, at the moment we confront a pandemic that, it is important to remember, is not the responsibility of any of us. This does not mean that we devalue the need to find the best answers at every moment to safeguard the mitigation of the associated risks. Just as it does not mean that we devalue the importance of evolving in the answers, due to the experience that accumulates and the errors that are occurring. For the Socialist Party, it remains a priority to ensure the safety of all and of each of the household users, safeguarding the reduction of cases of contagion, in view of the already known data and which have had the consequences that unfortunately we know. But it is also unacceptable for us to disagree, in a political struggle that seems to forget what has been done since March, on the measures that have been set up to strengthen the responses. I am talking about the preventive measures applied in the homes and their employees. I speak of the circuits and procedures defined in response to suspected cases and virus transmission situations. I am talking about the creation of backup units to give a supplementary answer. I am talking about increasing the capacity of social responses, strengthening human resources and strengthening the means of financing. I'm talking about strengthening the response in health care. If we point out the answer promptly defined, we should also point out that it is vital to draw conclusions from what has happened so far. We agree with the concern that all parties here have shown about the undesirable consequences that this pandemic has already had, in particular in the homes, and the need to adapt procedures, strengthen responses and ensure that situations such as those living in some homes do not repeat. We must indeed learn from what went wrong and ensure that in the coming months, in a period where the risk is even greater, the answer is effective. This is indeed an burden that falls on the government, it is an burden that falls on the entities responsible for the responses, it is an burden that falls on the health institutions, but it is also an burden that falls on us, Members, that we should follow and recommend changes, whenever we consider that it is possible to improve some aspect in the response to the homes. So I can't finish without leaving a final note. The Government has already referred today to the measures it intends to implement in order to strengthen the strategy that has been in place since March and which continues to produce its effects. For the Socialist Party, it is also important to safeguard that there is a strengthening of the response in prevention and without neglecting what is the safeguard of our elderly people. But what I am asking is what CDS, which promoted this debate, proposes after all?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-10.u111	Now? Oh, my God! What do you propose? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-10.u112	What the gentlemen have been sucking! Don't you remember what it was? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-10.u113	What did the PSD, after all, propose since March, not to be what you proposed today: the creation of a follow-up committee? After all, what changed in the procedure that was defined by the government from the beginning? What are the proposals that differ so much from what has been defined by the government? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-10.u114	I now give the floor, on behalf of the Government, to the Secretary of State for Social Action, Rita Mendes.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-10.u115	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen: I have taken due note of all the concerns expressed here by the distinguished Members and the honourable Members, but I mean that the homes of the elderly and the outbreaks in the homes of the elderly and the protection of the elderly have been a concern and have been a priority of the government since the first hour. Concern because, in permanent coordination with the institutions of the social, solidarity and lucrative sector, we felt the main challenges emerging from the pandemic, from then on, the early detection of infection, the difficulty in identifying and implementing contingency measures, the replacement of human resources in an outbreak situation, access to the PPEs that, at the time, were scarce in the market and, still, the increase in the financial burden of the institutions for the protection of the elderly in this social response. Priority because, in a completely extraordinary and unpredictable context, we did what had never been done, which was daily to monitor, monitor and support the institutions which, from the signaling of the outbreak to their regular operation, had systematic attention on the part of the Ministry. We defined, in conjunction with the Ministry of Health, but always supported by the representative entities of the sector, those that we considered to be the most necessary measures for each moment. And, to this extent, we have done what, in consultation, has since been determined, the allocation of PPE to more than 2300 homes, the strengthening of human resources in situations of homes whose functioning was compromised. And it is not just now, with the brigades, that we are replacing or strengthening human resources that are lacking in an outbreak. In fact, through the IEFP (Instituto do Employo e Educação Profissionale) and the MEREESS (Measurement of Support for Emergency Relief of Social Equipment and Health) over these months we have allocated more than 6800 people to more than 1000 institutions. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I would like to say that with the Directorate-General for Health we prepared the guidelines that were necessary for the implementation of preventive measures and contingency plans, we disseminated them by the institutions and followed their implementation. Also through a preventive testing program, we tested more than 60 000 household workers. I would also like to say that, in support of the increased charges that the households had, for the first time, some answers had an increase of 5 %, which meant the greatest participation ever. I would like to say that social security has fulfilled, with the health authorities, with the municipalities, with civil protection, all the procedures and competences assigned to it, in the framework of the task force, with the households with outbreaks. I would also like to say that, thanks to this protocol of action, they have already been carried out, and the honourable Members have been silenced. Members, more than 1000 joint visits to health and also with civil protection, and also that the monitoring actions continued, even within the framework of the COVID-19. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-10.u116	You have the floor, for a very short time, on behalf of the Government, Mr. Secretary of State for Health, Mr.António Sales.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-10.u117	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in these 1, 5 minutes away, I would like to say, Mr João Almeida, that the CDS, as an applicant, speaks to the property of the commentators after the games.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-10.u118	You're in the government!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-10.u119	Mr President, we do not accept that this matter will turn into a ranking of sensitivity to the elderly, when he knows perfectly well that we are all in agreement on this matter! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-10.u120	Have shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-10.u121	Mr President, in addition, when a death is an additional death, what the elderly need is who defends them and that is what we have done and that is what we will continue to do. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP João Pinho de Almeida.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-10.u122	Mr. Deputies, the government has not stopped. The brigades are just one more measure, as you know.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-10.u123	One more! Is that what you're talking about? That's ball player talk! That's what's missing!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-10.u124	We're not late, we're going in the right time and we've come to respond to a complex period that you know very well what it is, which is autumn/winter, and it's in the right time. You know very well that these measures are dynamic, flexible and have to evolve according to the dynamics of the pandemic itself.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-10.u125	That's ball player talk! That's what's missing!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-10.u126	Mr Deputy, we have worked with the Ministry of Labour, with the authorities, with civil protection, with visits from multidisciplinary teams, we have the support of the professionals of the ACE (Endemies Affairs) in the homes, we have a monitoring methodology for the report. You know that we have these intervention brigades, which you very well mentioned,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-10.u127	You don't! You'll have it!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-10.u128	... the preparation of vaccination for autumn/winter, the identification of residents who do not have a family doctor and that we are prioritising on the user lists.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-10.u129	It has already exceeded the time of the Government, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-10.u130	I will finish, Mr. President. But, Mr President, we must react at the same time as we have to anticipate answers for the future. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-10.u131	We have thus reached the end of our discussions and the last item on the agenda of the Standing Committee. We meet again next week, Wednesday, September 16th, for 15 hours. At the first item on the agenda, we will have political statements. The second point will be followed by the assessment of Petition No 644 / XIII / 4. a (António Manuel Lima Coelho et al.) — Justice for military, GNR and Maritime Police professionals, together with Bill No. 486 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Integral accounting of the service time of careers and special bodies of the public administration, in general, and with the Resolution Project No. 484 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends that the Government correct the mechanisms for career progression of the Armed Forces military, professionals of the Maritime Police and the Republican National Guard At the third point, we will proceed to the examination of Petition No 13 / XIV / 1. a ( Transparency and Integrity) — By adopting a national strategy against corruption, along with Resolution Projects Nos 550 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government develop and present to the Assembly a national strategy against corruption and 546 / XIV / 1. a (IL) — Effective protection of complainants. Good afternoon to everyone and until the week. The meeting is closed. [[It was 18 hours and 4 minutes.]]
