ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 3 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority to open the gallery doors to the public. Before we begin the agenda, I will give the floor to Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha to proceed with the reading of the dossier.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, very late. I will announce that you have entered the Bureau, and you have been admitted, Bill No. 215 / XIV / 1. a ( NAP) — Removes the bream rabbit from the species subject to kinegetic exploitation, which falls to 7. the Commission. They also entered the Bureau, and were also admitted, the Resolution Projects No. 260 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends to the Government the construction of a basic school( 2 ). o is 3. the cycles) and secondary in Fernão Ferro, 261 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends strict control of landfills and measures to ensure the drastic reduction of waste channelled to landfills in Portugal, which falls to 11. the Commission, and 263 / XIV / 1. a ( CH) — By clarifying Law No 66 / 2015 and by banning the collection of fees and commissions in bank transfers made through the application MB WAY, which falls to 5. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u3	Mrs. Members, let us then begin the first item on the agenda, which consists in the joint assessment of Bill 4 / XIV / 1. a (BE) — defines and regulates the conditions in which the anticipation of death, by decision of the person himself with definitive injury or incurable and fatal disease and who is in lasting and unbearable suffering, is not punishable, 67 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Regulates Access to Assisted Medicine Death, 104 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Proceeds to 50. the amendment to the Penal Code, regulating the special conditions for the practice of non-punishable euthanasia, 168 / XIV / 1. a (PEV) — Defines the regime and conditions under which assisted drug death is not punishable and 195 / XIV / 1. a (IL) — regulates the anticipation of the end of life, in a dignified, conscious manner and assisted medicine. We will initiate the debate with Mr. José Manuel Pureza, to present the bill of the Left Block. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: « The decriminalization of assisted death is the most humanitarian and democratic option we can adopt for the end of life: no one is obliged and no one is prevented, the only criterion is the choice of each one. After all, isn't this democracy? Do not keep on seeking. ” These words were written by John Semedo. And John Semedo was right. [[Congratulations from BE and PS Members.]] The debate about assisted death has come from far away and has existed for decades in Portugal. Rare was the theme, in almost half a century of democracy, which has been discussed as long as this, with intense debate throughout Portuguese society, in the medical community, in legal knowledge, in the association world, in political parties, in religious communities and also with deep and demanding debate in the Assembly of the Republic, as it had to be. The whole country has learned from this debate. The positions are known, the arguments are identified and, therefore, now is the time to decide. What we have decided in this Parliament today is this democratic step that John Semedo spoke of not forcing, nor preventing anyone from deciding when life, which is coming to an end, plunges into a survival exercise that, day by day, hour by hour, violent so many men and so many women. What we have decided today is the responsibility to adopt a balanced, prudent, rigorous law that respects the individual's decision on the end of his life when he is there, immersed in suffering. What we have decided today is whether we accept that only those with money can go to a foreign country to see their willingness to anticipate the death accomplished or if we recognize all, rich and poor, the same right to have the end of life that best respects their sense of dignity. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, made this journey, known in detail the contents of all projects, our free and serene decision cannot be conditioned either by opportunistic political maneuvers or by emotional blackmails. On the one hand, there is no cynical use of the democratic instrument, which is the referendum, for whom he did not want or remember when he had a majority in this Parliament, deserves another qualification than that of purely political play. [[Congratulations from BE and PS Members.]] To this play, democracy responds with a responsible, rigorous and tolerant law. On the other hand, those who, whenever there is an extension of freedoms, want to make Parliament a symbol of their fear of social disparity are now testing this strategy again. of the ghosts of'slip ramps' to the euthanasia of those who do not ask for it or even to the death of lovers in hijacking, it is worth all to throw the social fear. To these and their tricks, democracy responds with seriousness and serenity with a law it considers—as it must consider! — all these scenarios as indisputable crimes. It is not, therefore, about the proposals that are under discussion that the arrears of fear speak, but only about their own nightmares, since, from the height of their immense pre-monitoring capacity, they seem to become law one day. Everyone has the right to guess, what they do not have the right to make their guess justification so that the sentence of three years' imprisonment of the doctor will be maintained in the law that, in solidarity, helps someone in unbearable suffering to anticipate his death. [[Congratulations from BE and PS Members.]] The country knows that this debate is not about palpites or general and abstract principles, but about concrete proposals. The project presented by the Left Block is very clear and I summarize it, citing it in five fundamental points. First point: the project of the Left Block « defines and regulates the conditions in which the anticipation of death by decision of the person himself with definitive injury or incurable and fatal disease and in enduring and unbearable suffering, when practiced or assisted by health professionals, is not punishable, which means that, where these conditions do not arise, we will be faced with a crime. Second, the request for an advance of death « may only give rise to a clinical procedure for the anticipation of death if made by an older person, able to understand the meaning and extent of the request and conscious at the time of its formulation», which means that the requests of minors or mental patients are not accessible. Third: the verification of the existence of definitive injury or incurable and fatal disease and of lasting and unbearable suffering is attested by two doctors who have the obligation to provide the patient with "all information and clarification on the clinical situation affecting him, the applicable, viable and available treatments, particularly in the area of palliative care, and the respective prognosis", in addition to ensuring that the patient's decision is free and does not result from any external and illegitimate interference or cohesion. Fourth point: the opinion of a specialist in psychiatry is required whenever one of the two doctors has « doubts about the ability of the person to apply for the anticipation of death », and the procedure « cancelled and given for closure » if this is confirmed. Fifth, and last, point: the decision to take the death anticipation procedure to the end is the sole responsibility of the patient and, of course, revocable at all times. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, over the past few years, I have talked with many doctors and nurses who know as well as the frontier between the anticipation of death and the death of death is so artificial in the daily life of hospitals. I have talked to believers and non-believers who share in the same culture of care and who have often confided me how the complicity of those who care cannot, in consistency, exclude the help to put an end to a life that is pure agony and disrespect for those who live it. I spoke with many people with different formations and stories of life about rights and dignity at the end of life and talked, above all, with family and friends of people to whom the degeneration of the body destroyed in many ways the minimum reduction of self-respect, having lived the end of life with an immense and unerring violence. I talked to people who wanted to tell me these stories of pain and share with me their fundamental revolt for not having been respected the will of their loved ones to die in accordance with the requirements of dignity that they themselves have set for themselves throughout life. It was these people who taught me not abstract concepts, but, yes, the essential thing to know about this subject, i.e., that there is nothing legitimate to force anyone to have a farewell of life that violent it. It is precisely for the concrete lives of these concrete people today that we are called to legislate, with the responsibility of everyone who knows that life is a gift that belongs only to himself and that this — and only that! — is the meaning of saying that it is inviolable. Yes, what we are doing today in this Assembly of the Republic is not a discussion about abstract life, but about a choice for concrete people with their concrete suffering and their sense of concrete dignity. What we will decide today in this House of the Republic is whether or not we accept that, in extreme circumstances of illness and suffering of someone concrete, the doctor, who helps this concrete person to die — because that is the personal, free and repeated will of that person — must be sentenced to imprisonment for up to three years. What we will do today in this Assembly of the Republic, aware of the complexity of the issue and the importance of the decision, is answer to a question: do we choose the pre-power to impose on all a model of end of life which means an unbearable violence for many or, by refusing any imposition, decide to respect the choice of each one over the end of his life? By the side of the Left Block, when the five projects that propose the decriminalization of assisted death are voted, we will be on the side of the dignity of each choice and will decide for tolerance against taxation. It is our responsibility today to decide for a law that, by rejecting the prejudice that condemns those who do not want it to be a useless suffering, allows us to extend the field of tolerance in Portugal and thus we will make today a great day for Portuguese democracy. [[Congratulations from BE, PAN and PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u5	To submit Bill No 67 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) and to intervene in the debate, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u6	Good afternoon, Mr. President and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, today's debate is about empathy, about the ability to put ourselves in the other's place. The debate we are having today is about solidarity, about how we relate to each other, whether or not we should be supportive of those who are unable to use the aid, the understanding of their fellows to get rid of the tragedy in which they live. The debate today is about courage, if we have the courage and responsibility to build a just, serious and rigorous law that respects the will and decision of each person. The debate we are having today is about the dignity of the human person, who is felt and experienced differently for each one, but which is full only if there is freedom, autonomy and self-determination. Currently, the Portuguese State prevents freedom of choice, prevents aid for the expansion of autonomy and prevents self-determination to conform our lives according to our globalization. A State that does not grant freedom, autonomy and self-determination to a person who clearly finds himself in an end of an excruciating life to choose to anticipate his death, according to his values, is a State that does not admit that these people die according to his concept of dignity. It is a state that imposes on all a model of end-of-life, cruelty and intolerable violence for many. It is a dominant and authoritarian state. The debate we are having today is about justice. at the end of the afternoon, we will decide whether we want the Portuguese State to continue to judge as criminals and to anticipate the imprisonment of those who, out of compassion, practice an act of kindness. The debate we are having today is about equality. Is it acceptable for a wealthy Portuguese to be able to guarantee his will to anticipate death, leaving the country, and that this same country does not give the universal response that is imposed in a rule of law, democratic and plural, i.e. the conditions for this will to be respected here, in the company of family and friends? Today's session is the culmination of a debate that has been held for several years, which has been intense and very involved in the last four, by all sectors of our country, and even in May 2018 the President of the Republic confirmed that "a debate has been held very much attended by all political, religious and social quadrants". From there to today, the debates on this matter have continued to multiply and, as well, we are in a position today to be able to choose, with responsibility, with rigour and with courage. Anyone who defends today that the discussion continues to do and those who refer to a civilizational advancement as « hurry», is merely hiding its true objective, which is to prevent him from being held in prison with imprisonment the act of helping a human being who, despite his lucid and conscious, suffers from an incurable disease and faces an intolerable and indisputable suffering. Those who have always defended that life does not refer to now defend that the referendum comes to Parliament, even if it is down. Those who have always said they believe in representative democracy now say that Members have no legitimacy to legislate. But if the referendum is a fundamental requirement to debate and to decide the decriminalization of assisted drug death, if all parties knew that the issue would come back to votes,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u7	I wasn't on the show!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u8	... because this was announced by the NAP and other political forces, why is it that the defense of the referendum is not in any electoral programme, nor has it been defended in campaign by the parties that have proposed it in recent days? [[PAN's applause.]] The referendum is an important instrument, which must be respected. It cannot be a mechanism to be used and trivialized as the last reduction of those who want to prevent the extension of people's autonomy and self-determination. Let's not be fooled! The referendum argument has a clear political purpose, serves to divert discussion and our attention from discussing the problem and the options of the end of life and we will be discussing whether or not there is a referendum. This can be called the « strategy of the sliding referendum », which aims only to postpone the response that a democratic and plural state has to give to those who live in constant, daily torture, a slow and suffering agony, aggravated by dependence and physical degradation. What at the end of the afternoon we will vote are bills with very concrete and precise content. The legislative initiative of the NAP is quite clear and objective. First, the request for an anticipation of death is admissible only in cases of disease or incurable injury, causing intense physical or psychological suffering, persistent and not due or attenuated at acceptable levels and accepted by the patient or in cases of clinical condition of absolute and definitive disability or dependence, and when practiced or assisted by health professionals. Secondly, whenever these conditions do not occur, we will be facing a crime. Third, the request for anticipation of death results only in a clinical act if it is made by an older person, conscious and lucid, freely and repeatedly, which removes the requests of minors or persons with mental forum disease. Fourth, the verification of the requirements is attested by three doctors, one of whom is a psychiatrist, who have an obligation to inform and clarify the patient about their clinical situation, about the treatments available and applicable, particularly in the area of palliative care, and to ensure that the patient's decision is free and does not result from any external and illegitimate interference. Fifth, in cases where the favourable opinion of the three doctors is cumulatively verified, and confirmed the patient's will, the committee for monitoring and evaluating the application of the law issues an opinion on compliance with the requirements and previous stages of the procedure. Sixth, the death anticipation procedure is revocable all the time and the right to conscientious objection is guaranteed to doctors and other health professionals. These are the principles, criteria and requirements that each and every one of us will vote today. The decriminalization of death on request, in the context of illness, thus provides for compliance with a set of rigorous clinical criteria indissociable. Because we live in a democratic society and in a rule of law, the patient cannot want his request to be accepted without discretion and society cannot accept all requests without reservation. We know that the decision on assisted drug death is definitive, with irreversible effects. Yeah, we know it's got risks. Therefore, the NAP proposal and the other texts under discussion are based on greater rigour and caution and ensure the formality and safety of the processes through an enormous scrutiny and regulation, but the complexity of a matter cannot inhibit the Members of their responsibility to decide and legislate. Fear cannot take away our courage and prevent us from moving forward in the field of the consecration of rights, extending freedoms and caring for the most vulnerable. Those who criticize the NAP proposals and the others, guessing the end of the world that comes there, who accuse us of total perversion and disorder, are the same ones who cannot bring to the debate the unsuspecting opinion of the 2018 National Council of Ethics for Life Sciences on the initiative of the NAP, which, on page 5, says that the « procedure provided for in the NAP proposal has the merit of being able to reduce the risk of applications that do not correspond to a genuine and consistent use of the will itself, and also that of limiting bad judgements on the conditions imposed by the law ». Those who, as in the past, when there is an impulse to extend rights, devote themselves to spreading a mantle of fear and announcing sliding ramps of civilizational retrocessions, the NAP responds firmly and courageously, with a ramp that rises and achieves responsible solutions, with a ramp of dignity and peace, which does not throw anyone into clandestineness, nor to the cruciful definition of a life that is already only biological. These are the answers and the guarantees we are going to vote on today. Defining "intolerable suffering" is not difficult, it is multifactorial and recognizable by health professionals. And it is not true that all suffering is treatable, as those who argue that palliative care is the only solution and a response to all cases. Suffering is a personal and intransmissible experience. Much more than a physical or psychological symptom, suffering is a dependence, an indignity, a lack of being, a lack of sense, and it is agonizing to suffer for knowing that, after suffering, there will only be suffering. It is extremely paternalistic and insulting to tell those who are in these conditions that the answer is palliative care. Palliative care should be guaranteed universally, as we do, but this issue does not conflict with this debate. in a rule of law, each of us should be allowed, both in the most trivial aspects, and in the most intimate areas of human existence, the power to conform our lives according to our own convictions. A life that lives on its entire includes its entire end. To prevent one from having a word to say about how not to want life to end is a restriction of the full right to life. A pluralized and evolved society respects the primacy of freedom, autonomy and self-determination throughout life, especially at the last moment, when, according to the grid of values and convictions of each one, this life is empty of any meaning and considered an indignity. To fail us autonomy at the time of the end of life is to betray us the whole life. Decriminalizing assisted drug death is defending a fundamental human right that is to be fulfilled, it is deciding who belongs to the life of each person, it is recognizing the last individual freedom of someone and being able to be helped at the moment, perhaps, more difficult, of his life. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This is the time to decide. What we will decide at the end of the afternoon is whether we want an act of kindness to continue, or not, to be a punishable crime with imprisonment. What we are going to vote here today is the decriminalization of freedom. [[Congratulations from the PAN, BE, PS and MP not included Joacine Katar Moreira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u9	It is Mrs. Isabel Moreira's turn to present the PS bill and intervene in the debate. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: The road down here has been very long. We are asked what changed from the past legislation to this one, I answer you with what remained: a disproportionate, unjust, cruel and inhuman criminal persecution remained. We, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, have not changed. There are no more worthy lives than others. There is certainly no concept of abstract dignity that imposes on everyone, because that, yes, is to devalue the life and autonomy of each person. All rights are, in abstract, absolute, but, in concrete, they are subject to weighting. We are debating a specific project, which will include a law of the Republic, and there are no imaginary derivations that do not exist from any future, because it is always blocked by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u11	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u12	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u13	We honor our tradition of seeking decisions on criminal policy based on individual autonomy, so that there is room for each person's intimate choices, without violation of the Constitution, in the space where this weighting has to be made, in this space where Portuguese and Portuguese are, here, in this House called the Assembly of the Republic, which cost the freedom and life of so many. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]] over time, each individual is called upon to make countless vital decisions about his or her life, which concern only his or her own. This is the case in the rule of law. The State cannot impose a single concept of life, a single path of individual choices, which can frame this decision-making. To do it would be totalitarian. Each person is, as long as it does not harm third parties, the free architect of his destination. Its autonomy must cover some kind of decision on an essential dimension of life: its death. Thus, this bill regulates the special conditions for the practice of non-punishable euthanasia, with respect to the Constitution, because it is concerned about decriminalizing euthanasia under special conditions and of course not liberalizing euthanasia. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]] The duty to protect the human life of the person against his will has a different dimension from the duty to protect the human life of the person against third parties. I need a duty to live in the limited situations provided for in this bill, in view of the individual autonomy resulting from the dignity of the human person, leads us to have this profound conviction: criminally pursuing who helps a patient with an incurable disease is a claim of intolerance.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u14	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u15	It is inhuman to say to Luís Marques, ventilated tetraplegic, who repeatedly asks for help in shortening his death, that the State believes that he has an obligation to live and that, if he has help, that is a crime. In the name of what? On behalf of what, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen? [[All right!]] [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u16	It is a resignation to continue to close our eyes to the intimate stories that we have kept or that we have news of those who have been able to help to die underground, of those who have gone abroad, as fugitives, and of those who have failed and had to endure conceptions of foreign dignity. That is why the debate makes sense now! It's always time to put an end to injustice!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u17	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u18	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u19	It is said, as I have heard in a debate, that this law is not necessary, because people can always kill themselves is a revolting, repeated, revolting cruelty. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]] It is essential that the decision of the patient, I repeat, of the patient, be effectively the result of the current, serious, free and informed will. Sad those who brought to this debate cases of dementia, depression or unconscious people — cases obviously excluded from these projects, cases that will always be a crime, now and in the future, by constitutional imposition. As has already been widely disseminated, four detailed phases and a possible fifth are planned and, at all stages of the clinical procedure, the patient's always conscious will is recorded, dated and signed. « Helping die calmly and quietly, ending useless suffering, is an attitude of high moral value and great humanism», quoting the doctor, the Member, friend João Semedo. [[Congratulations from the PS, BE and MP not registered Joacine Katar Moreira.]] There are those who look at the legal order and do not feel the whole person. That'd be enough of a case! It would suffice to say « present». Defending life to the end, I hear you say. They divide us, first, between those who defend life and those who attack it. We don't accept it. We do not accept the debate on these terms. They deliberately confuse a debate on decriminalization of euthanasia with health care that no one denies. How to decriminalize euthanasia in these terms would take a penny of any health policy or replace it. Sometimes they call us radicals. But what we have for radical is a unique vision of dignity, imposed, unbreakable, in front of someone who wants to shorten his life in a moment, for himself, without possible compensation. Faced with this decision, it is radical to say "he suffers, he suffers until your heart stops beating, he suffers while you are a body, because for us this is how he dies. Just like it's born. No choice”. Today's vote, in favour of this bill, does not crush the convictions of anyone; the opposite vote only allows some to survive. We prefer the place of everyone's choices. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u20	You now have the word, to present Bill No. 168 / XIV / 1. a (PEV) — Defines the regime and conditions under which assisted drug death is not punishable, and intervenes in the debate, Mr José Luís Ferreira, of the Greens.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u21	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: About two years later, we are again discussing the decriminalization of drug-assisted death. It is a delicate, sensitive matter, which involves fundamental values rooted in our society, which concerns the legal good that is life and which, therefore, makes us fall even more demanding in terms of responsibility and seriousness with which to be addressed and discussed. This is a discussion that is not easy, we know, but we are also sure that it will become as difficult as it is less serious as it involves the discussion. That is why, too, in presenting the draft law of the Green Party, which we now do, what is asked of those who listen to us is that our proposal is understood in the exact terms in which it is formulated and not as if it contained rules, provisions or measures that are not really part of the proposal. It tells us the common sense that it is only in this way that it is possible to have a serious and responsible discussion, in such a delicate and sensitive matter, as is the one under discussion today. We discuss what's proposed and we leave out what's outside. This is the appeal that, with all the sense of responsibility, the Greens here want to leave. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: When, in February 2017, we discussed in plenary the petition, promoted by the Civic Movement « Right to Die with Dignity », through which the decriminalization of assisted death was requested, the Greens informed, during this debate, of their intention to present a legislative initiative proposing to the Assembly of the Republic the definition of the regime and of the conditions under which assisted drug death was not subject to criminal censorship. However, we had already discussed and produced a deep internal reflection, having constituted a working group that was untiring to hear a group of people mainly in the areas of health and law. It was in this way that we built the Bill No. 838 / XIII / 3. the, which defined the regime and the conditions under which the assisted drug death could be practised without prosecution of a criminal nature. in this draft law, the Greens Ecologist Party proposes the definition of the conditions under which assisted drug death could be practised, thus publicly assuming a clear position on the issue, and contributing unequivocally to the intensification of this debate and the search for results. In other words, the Greens contributed to the debate not only theoretically, but also supported by concrete proposals. However, since the bill was rejected, there was, however, the deepening of a discussion that involved the hearing of a significant group of people, who, in fact, contributed to the elaboration of our bill. Adding this to the discussions that took place and to the hearings promoted in this House, not only when the projects were discussed in the Plenary, in the previous Legislation, but also during the process that involved the discussion of the petition, all leads us to believe that, about the lack of discussion regarding the assisted drug death, little or nothing will be said. In this Parliament, the Ecological Party « The Greens » decided to reintroduce the same bill, a product of reflection made, open to the most serious contributions, with the conviction that it constitutes a basis of work so that there can be an effective consequence in guaranteeing the dignity of the human person. In fact, our legal-constitutional building is precisely based on the dignity of the human person as referred to in Article 1. that of our Constitution, in the dignity of every human being in concrete and all as a consequence, which implies respect for personal autonomy, in a social context. In the face of a specific case of a person suffering, guaranteed and unequivocally, a disease without cure, irreversible and fatal, causing an intolerable suffering, who, knowingly that his tortuous agony is the only expression of life he will know until the end of his days, who asks him, out of compassion, not to live this way and to help him anticipate the end of his suffering in a calm and painless way, asks whether the guarantee of this person's dignity does not go through to his request, provided he reiterates and with the certainty that he is conscious, genuine, convinced, free and informed.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u22	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u23	Now, at this point, we need to ask ourselves: should the State determine that a person, in these circumstances, loses his autonomy, his dignity, his freedom to decide on himself and his own life, forcing him to live in suffering, opposed, when there is no other solution? Oh, my God! The Greens don't think so. In other words, in extreme cases and with guarantees of deep consciousness and capacity on the part of the person concerned, it is not the State to deprotect the person from the right to life, but rather to respect the will of the holder of the right to life. And it is above all not to impose on you the duty or obligation to live and suffer gravely and painfully. It is in this sense and in these exact terms that the Greens propose that the death of a drug assisted in extreme situations and under very well defined conditions and at the patient's express request should be phased out. But we also want to make it clear that this proposal at nothing, at absolutely nothing, contributes to reducing, smoothing or de-responsibility of the State with regard to its duty to ensure patient access to palliative care and to ensure a good network of continued care, with the aim of preventing and alleviating physical, psychological, social and spiritual suffering, and improving the well-being and support of patients and their families, when associated with serious or incurable disease, in an advanced and progressive phase. The Greens will continue, as they have done so far, to fight for enlargement and for the improvement of the network of continuous and palliative care. Let us also make it clear that this proposal does not imply forcing anyone to choose to advance their death. No one is obliged, not even incited, to make that option. Moreover, the guarantee of no influence or pressure of any order on the person concerned is a assumption that the Greens Ecological Party cautions on the proposal it submits. And not only is no one obliged to choose, as well as from the perspective of the Greens, so much must be respected the will of a person who, in the face of a limited situation of pain and intolerable suffering, caused by terminal illness, does not conceive of the anticipation of his death, as does the will of another person who, in this same situation, decides that it will end, briefly and quietly, through the procedures of the medically assisted death. It is the will of the person, therefore, that must be respected and for this reason the State, in our view, must not prohibit the possibility of making such an option in very well-defined situations and processes. What is meant, in effect, to ensure that the principle of prohibition of meeting the freedom and will of the person gives rise to respect for the principle of his dignity, his autonomy and his sovereignty, as a person capable and conscious of determining and choosing what he or she wants and what he or she does not want in his or her life. But in the same line of thought, health professionals are not obliged to accompany and assist in the anticipation of the death of a person who suffers, in no way, from fatal illness, in the event of this act wounding their own principles and convictions, be they of what order they are. For this reason, the Green Ecological Party provides for the right to conscientious objection by health professionals. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At a medical level, and at the level of the provision of health care, at the same time that the strengthening and investment in the ability to treat and respond to serious illness are required, the patient's self-determination has made its way, today being unacceptable the absolute permanence of the inherited paradigm of Hippocrates, which diminishes the patient in his will and dignity. An example of this is the prediction of informed consent, the definition of the regime of early will directives, especially in the form of vital will, and here too can be the rejection of therapeutic obstination. Assisted drug death is the possibility of the doctor to provide, in a controlled way, a dignified death, in peace, without suffering, to those who ask for it, being in a state of terminal disease or with deep inability, incurable, intolerable agony. And, as is naturally required, the patient's request cannot be considered as light, irreflective or hasty. If it is true that we are talking about the legal good that most legal protection must have, which is life, it is also true that, in good rigour, such legal good is not restricted only to the right to life, it also includes the right to decide how and when you want to end it, and if you decide to shorten it, since there is no duty or obligation to live, it also becomes understandable that it is understood to restrict this possibility to exceptional situations and to a weighted, careful and respectable process especially of the patient, but also of his family. It should be noted at this point that the hearings carried out by the Assembly of the Republic in the context of the examination and examination of Petition No 103/ XIII, which sought the decriminalization of the death of assisted medicinal products, were made clear to the Greens that there is no constitutional impediment to the decriminalization of the death of assisted medicinal products. It is, however, well known, an extreme decision which cannot be trivialized, and which, as such, must be surrounded by the most duly guarded and guaranteed, but which, at the same time, cannot be perpetuated in a bureaucratic hell that increases the anxiety and suffering of the patient. From the perspective of the Greens Ecological Party, it must be a clinical process, whose development, not excluding a doctor holding the process that accompanies it to the end, should involve other bodies, ensuring the sharing of responsibilities and security in the measurement of the situation and in the fulfilment of the legal criteria. It is thus ensured that several participants participate in the process, in a patient's decision logic but cautioning the weighting of a team of people, with broad knowledge and experience, who will not leave the patient to their fate, before they respect it in their dignity. The Greens Ecologist Party also understands that in order to avoid any business anxieties, assisted drug deaths should take place only in public hospitals and not in private hospitals. If there are materials that should be out and away from the market and business, this is one of them. On the other hand, only citizens with Portuguese nationality or official residence in Portugal who are to be accompanied and treated in the health establishment of the National Health Service can resort to the death of assisted medicine. Thus, there is a fundamental assumption in the whole process: it is essential and indispensable that the process should be initiated solely and exclusively by voluntary and free, serious, repeated, express and scrupulous request of the patient. And it is added that the request should be instant, current or immediate, and never anticipated. The guarantee that that is the effective, persistent and present will of the patient is absolutely decisive. On the other hand, the request can only be made by conscious, capable, informed and older patients. In no case may be requested by a minor or his or her legal representative, or by a person unable or to whom mental forum disease has been diagnosed. Finally, it must also be said that the request can be revoked at any time and without any formalism. The Greens thus present their bill, which can, let us say, be divided into two essential parts. The first seeks to amend the Penal Code in order to remove, under certain very particular conditions and circumstances, and at the request of the patient, the criminal prosecution of assisted drug deaths. The second part sets out the criteria and defines the whole clinical process involving assisted drug death. A process surrounded by cautions and ensuring respect for the established rules and the will of the patient. A clinical process involving several instances, with shared responsibilities, which ensures security in evaluation and respect for the law. This is the Greens' proposal. Define the specific conditions and procedures to be observed in cases of assisted drug death and amend the Penal Code to decriminalize, precisely, assisted drug death, upon serious request, free, personnel, repeated, instant, expressed, conscious and informed of person who is in deep suffering from serious, incurable disease and without hope of clinical improvement, finding himself in a terminal state or with a widely incapacitating and definitive injury. Finally, a final note on the remaining bills under discussion. The Greens will not vote against any of these legislative initiatives, and we also take advantage of our willingness to make sure that, from the approved proposals, if any, we look for a joint text that ensures the essentials. And the essential thing is to establish the conditions in which you can practice assisted drug death, but marked by the most demanding precautions and guarantees. Only under certain conditions, and in very particular situations, in the face of a free request, reiterated, conscious, genuine, convinced and informed request from the patient, and finally following a clinical process which, not requiring a doctor holding the trial to the end, also involves other bodies—in the case of the Greens proposal, a verification committee—who will compete with the application, assess the fulfilment of the established criteria and ensure the transparency of the process, but also ensure compliance with the law. The Greens believe that this House is in a position to make, without haste, thoughtfully, and with the involvement and contribution of all. This House is in a position to produce a strict, tolerant, balanced law that guarantees the essential. [[PEV, BE and MP applauded Joacine Katar Moreira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u24	You have the word, to present the Bill No. 195 / XIV / 1. a, of the Liberal Initiative, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u25	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, in this House, the decriminalization of euthanasia is decided. It's not an easy decision. It is not easy to talk about the end, it is not easy to know what each of us will feel on his death bed. It is not easy to weigh rights and principles. But it was what we sought to do in our project, ensuring prior access to palliative care, respecting an express, free, current, informed will of the person, protecting the rights of all health professionals involved, being clear about the situations in which the process is admissible, demanding a rigorous and disciplined process. But it was not just because of programmatic coherence that we presented our own project and that we will vote against the others. We do this because life is not just the passing of time between a principle and an end, life is what we believe in and what we do, what we believe in thinking about by our own head and what we do by free, informed, conscious choice that does not limit the free choice of others. In search of our path, decisions are ours. The decisions to which we want to go, with whom we want to go, the decisions on the struggles that we are fighting and the outcomes we have resigned, the decisions to change these decisions are, or should be, ours. Only we ourselves feel joy or pain, we ourselves feel fulfillment or frustration, we ourselves feel ecstasy or agony. Only we ourselves truly know about ourselves, only we ourselves know, and so, until the last moment, no one can, no one should be able, decide our life for us. [[Congratulations from PS and BE and MP not registered Joacine Katar Moreira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u26	The Bureau gave some flexibility to the Member's speaking time for introducing a bill, allowing it to slightly exceed its time. I now give the floor to Mr António Filipe of the CFP Parliamentary Group for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u27	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The opposition of the CFP to the initiatives under discussion today is well known. It is not a mild-hearted opposition motivated by manicauism or based on ideas made. It is an option that results from an intense reflection on a topic that, because of its complexity, by the concerns it raises and by the transcendent importance of the values in question, dispenses any attitude of intellectual arrogance or any invocation of moral superiority. The CFP has always refused to view the debate on euthanasia as a war of trenches of religions against atheisms, of left-wing people against right-wing people, of enlightened against obscurantists. The PCP is a secular and left-wing Party—I do not think there is any doubt about it—and it bases its positions on a reflection where there are no dogmas or preconceived ideas. The trial we are being asked today as legislators does not affect individual consciences. This is about deciding a legislative option, a state option, not individuals. We do not make any process of negative intentions of legislative initiatives, of their authors or of those who agree with their options. We admit, without any mental reservation, that the intent of the proponents is to save human suffering and respect the individual option of ending suffering by asking for support to put an end to life. However, what we are discussing, and what we will have to decide on, is not about the individual option of each one on the end of his life, but about the attitude to be taken by the State regarding the final phase of the life of his citizens.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u28	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u29	Individual autonomy is something that must be respected, but an organized society is not a mere sum of individual autonomys. The legislator cannot assume a legislative option on the life and death of people without taking into account the circumstances and social consequences of this option.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u30	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u31	This is not a debate between those who value the dignity of human life and those who devalue it. The dignity of every human being in the face of the circumstances of his own death is something that no one is able to judge. The question of whether a State which denies many citizens the means to live a decent life should offer them the legal means to anticipate death with dignity. All legislative initiatives are based on an idea of respect for the autonomy and individual freedom of people in extreme suffering. But in a country where palliative care is only available to 25 % of the population, and surely among these 25 % will not be less favoured citizens, what freedom is offered to the other 75%? The Portuguese State cannot continue to deny to most of its citizens the health care they need, particularly in times of greatest suffering. The creation of a network of palliative care with universal character must be an absolute priority. We will certainly agree with this, regardless of the final destination of the initiatives under discussion. No one here understands euthanasia as a substitute for palliative care, but for the PCP there is a question that is undisturbed: a country cannot create legal instruments to help die when it does not guarantee material conditions to help live. A country that wants to be decent cannot condemn citizens to have to choose between suffering or death. [[All right!]] [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u32	They will reply to me that the present situation, by not allowing us to anticipate death, condemns suffering. Let us then take steps to ensure that all people have the assistance they have right to, using all means that science and technology already allow to mobilize, but let us start with life, let us not begin with the anticipation of death.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u33	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u34	The evolution of science and technique has allowed advances in medicine that were unthinkable a few years ago. This evolution is inexorable and is increasingly rapid. The question is that the resources available should be put at the service of the whole community — that must be the way. The obligation of the State must be to mobilize all the technical and scientific efforts available to avoid human suffering in all circumstances, respecting the will of the patient. Through good medical practices, which reject the use of therapeutic obstination and respect the autonomy of individual will, expressed through the anticipated manifestations of will that the law already allows, the duty of the State is to ensure that death is always assisted but not anticipated.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u35	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u36	They invoke the autonomy of the individual will, the right of each one to have his or her life. But we understand: the right to life is a fundamental right, inviolable and irrevocable; death is an inevitability, it is not a fundamental right. If death were a right, it would not be lawful to make it depend on the anticipation of the death of a third party's decision, as is the case in all the initiatives under discussion. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u37	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u38	This is a contradiction that none of the proposed initiatives can escape. The process of anticipation of death is triggered by itself, in circumstances thoroughly described, as it is well understood, but the final decision to anticipate death depends on the favourable opinion of various entities and is, after all, taken by an administrative entity. Where, then, is the autonomy of will and what is the relevance of the unbearable suffering invoked by the committee itself if the committee decides that not all legal assumptions for the anticipation of death occur? It is thus in the face of an insanitary contradiction. It is clear that the proposed regime could not ignore extreme cautions, but such cautions refer to a secondary plan, when they do not condemn to irrelevance, the extreme suffering on which the request was based, and this problem, once created, has no solution. Mr. President and Mr. Members, euthanasia is a matter that deeply divides Portuguese society. Probably, most Portuguese have difficulty in formulating a definitive or perennial judgment on the legalization of euthanasia, taking into account the complexity of the issue and the deep questions it raises. The countries that have legalized euthanasia are a tiny minority. The question of legalization of euthanasia has been discussed worldwide for many years, but it is not by chance that the overwhelming majority of countries have rejected it. It is that the reality of the few countries that practice euthanasia raises concerns that cannot be responsibly ignored.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u39	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u40	They say the proponents of initiatives that would not happen in Portugal if these initiatives were approved, given their extremely restrictive nature. But it is unforgettable that what is happening in countries such as Holland or Switzerland, where there is growing banalization of this practice, in the first case, or a genuine euthanasia industry, in the second case, goes far beyond what their legislation would allow to suppose. This is not a process of intentions, it is mere observation of realities that we do not want for our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u41	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u42	in a framework where the value of human life often arises relativized according to criteria of social utility, economic interests, family responsibilities and charges or public expenditure, the legalization of euthanasia would add new risks that, in a society determined by capitalism, we cannot mislead.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u43	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u44	We are still in time to avoid decisions whose social and human consequences we have to regret in the future. [[Congratulations on the PCP and on the PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u45	Mr António Filipe, the Bureau registered Mr André Silva of the NAP for clarification. To that end, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u46	Mr President, Mr António Filipe, in today's debate, as in the debate two years ago, the position of the CFP continues to frighten us all. [[All of us?Oh, my God!]] [[All of us?Oh, my God!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u47	On this issue, the PCP said "don't kill" and ignored the words of José Saramago, one of his most distinguished militants, who, regarding euthanasia, said: "We don't kill, but we respect the will of those who say 'please help me'." We wonder how the CFP can position itself in this debate on the opposite side of the barricade in relation to its comrades of the international communist movement. I recall that the Soviet Union, led by Lenin, in addition to being a pioneer in 1920, in decriminalizing the voluntary interruption of pregnancy,... [[Rice from CDS-PP, CH and PSD Members.]] ... something which, in 1940, Álvaro Cunhal considered, and well, a brilliant experience, was also, in 1922, the first country in the world to legalize active euthanasia. Is the legalization of active euthanasia not for the CFP in the role of the great civilizational advances of the October Revolution and socialism? I also recall that the Spanish Communist Party was a pioneer in this matter, and it was the first party to initiate in Spain the debate on the decriminalization of euthanasia, with the presentation of a proposal for a law in 1998 which proposed that such decriminalization should be effective, stating: "When causes of a medical nature prevent the human being from developing his own life, or put him in a situation of severe damage to his dignity as a person, or suffer permanent and irreversible physical suffering, the opportunity should be provided to decide to end a life which is not worthy of who decides, who is the person in question. Do not keep on seeking. ” In Germany, the party The Left, Die Linke, brother of the PCP...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u48	He's wrong! Not brother Party!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u49	... and an assiduous presence at the Front Festival, in a bill together with members of the German Green Party, under the motto « more careful rather than more criminal law», defended the right to free and self-determined decision of those who wish to die and decriminalise euthanasia. How can the PCP ignore these progressive positions of its brothers and sisters parties and stand alongside the most taxed models of society? It is a shock to all that the CFP is on the side of the progress in the enlargement of rights, but we hope, as an institutionalist and responsible party, that it is, to be able to count on its contribution to the discussion in the specialty, so that the content of a future law on the decriminalization of euthanasia can be better and avoid some of the concerns that have been raised here today. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u50	The honourable Member has exceeded his time to ask for clarification, but, as was discounted in the party's overall time, the Bureau has allowed this flexibility. Mr António Filipe has the floor to reply.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u51	Mr President, I have very little time to answer, but at the level of the question, it is enough. [[PCP applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP rice.]] We learned that the NAP conditions its position by the position of communist parties from other countries. We decided by our head,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u52	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u53	... by our own reflection and not by other reflections. [[Congrats from the CH.]] You should have more respect for the memory of people who, having already died, cannot be here to deny it. Therefore, you should not invoke them in your behalf. [[Congratulations on the PCP and on the PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u54	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I have been asked the possibility, and I think I should have access to it from the honourable Members. Deputies António Ventura and André Coelho Lima, both of the PSD, then made their speeches. There is no opposition, that is how we will proceed. Mr Ventura has the floor, then, for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u55	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: My first words go to the President of the PSD and to the leadership of the Parliamentary Group, which in such a matter allowed everyone to express their views freely. In fact, it couldn't be any other way. [[PSD applause.]] However, I would like to acknowledge that it was a freedom without any trace of consciousness, without biased calculus or tendencies of political objective. Everyone's going to vote any way they want. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u56	This is true democracy and here is a concrete example, not of appearance. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, this is obviously a very sensitive issue on which everyone deserves respect and consideration for their arguments — those of the 'yes' and those of the 'no'. They will all have reasons and experiences of different order that give them the reasons for their political decision. As a political decision, I also have my justification for being against euthanasia or assisted drug death,... [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] ... that, of course, they also find an echo in society and even in this Parliament. I begin by alerting us to consider the fact that the Portuguese Constitution referred to in Article 24 ( 1 ). the, that « human life is inviolable » and, in Article 25. , that « the right to moral and physical integrity of persons is inviolable ». Then it should be said that in Portugal we are far from offering the necessary and appropriate palliative care to those who need it, especially to the poorest and most isolated. Only about 25% of the population has access to these health care. in this exact sense, often, those who ask for death are taking on a « cry for help», which comes from the lack of health care and the absence of emotional proximity because they consider themselves a weight for others. The experience of other countries and various studies has told us that, often when someone asks for death, it can result in a consciousness of occasion, likely to be overcome, or depressive states, capable of being treated. In other words, it is never absolutely certain that it respects the will, in a reliable way, of the person who asks for euthanasia. In Portugal, there is still much to do in providing palliative health care, strengthening human and financial resources of the National Health Service, providing services to our elderly and supporting families. The solution to these weaknesses cannot be the offer of euthanasia. No less worrying would be the temptation of some governments to drop or decrease investment in medical-scientific research, which would be a disrespect for all those who suffered or suffered dramatically. Agonizing, in Portugal, is knowing that you can come to suffer because of the state's failure. [[All right!]] [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u57	I also have no doubt that euthanasia, by being approved, even in a very limited or prudent or tolerant situation, can win wings. Yes, over time, I am already seeing the possibility of some claiming more comprehensive euthanasia. Quickly, chronic disease, disability, children and at any time in life — the so-called sliding ramp. [[BE and PAN protests.]] She's real, she exists! With the danger of Portugal being an aging country, see the example of countries such as the Netherlands and Belgium, it is imperative not to open this door because it can lead to an unknown danger to humanity. Thus, to make possible in the law « death caused» is the resignation of the State and the capitulation of what « is lacking». We must not forget that the only end of the laws produced in this House is to improve people's lives. In my understanding, life has dignity in any situation and therefore deserves protection. As a legislator, I want to improve people's lives. Finally, it should be remembered that the organized and consulted society has given a negative opinion to the bills under consideration — the National Council of Ethics for Life Sciences, the Order of Doctors and the Order of Nurses. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, for all this, vote against the bills that aim to legalize euthanasia, or assisted drug death, in Portugal. [[PSD and CDS-PP and CH applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u58	You now have the floor for the PSD, Mr André Coelho Lima.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u59	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we do not debate death but the right to self-determination about our own life. Today, we do not debate against each other, we debate different perspectives, we debate with elevation, because we all want what each one of us thinks is the best. Similarly: with respect, with moderation, without radicalism. I'm for life, I'm not for death. We're all here for life. The Constitution of the Portuguese Republic defends the inviolability of human life, but also defends the dignity of the human person.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u60	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u61	How do I solve it? As for me, it is not with complex legal and constitutional formulations but with very simple questions. As life is an inviolable right, whose right is that right? Who holds the right to life? Is it he who lives it or will the State be the guardian of the right to life of every citizen? Finally, should the right to life be understood as an individual right or a collective right? I believe that these are the questions we must ask ourselves. In my spirit, there is no doubt that life is a right of each one of us. On the other hand, it would not be if we considered that life is a divine gift, then safeguarded by the State, which, with all respect for the convictions of each one, should not be presumed to be based on the rational domain underlying the legislative plan we are discussing. We will then be in the field of self-determination. Being our life, we must compete with each of us to decide what to do with it. This position is, to me, absolutely structural and well founded for the position I stand for here. João Ribeiro Santos, doctor and former Director of Curry Cabral Hospital, suffering from terminal illness said: « I want to have the right to decide and I do not accept that Portuguese society decides how I should die». This is the cry for self-determination and respect for the self-determination of the other involves loving the next one more than ourselves. In this regard, I wanted to share with you an episode of a personal nature: my father is a professional doctor and one of the 40,000 Portuguese who filled the vital will. in this fulfillment he appointed me as his health care attorney, i.e., I am the person who has to fight for the fulfillment of what he determined. I asked him, "Why me?" Why hand over the sword of Damocles to a son? Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” And he said to me: « For I know that you will be the only one who will do my will above yours», and you are right. I was proud to hear this, and that's exactly why I'm here today. [[PSD and PS and BE applause.]] Because the act of allowing the holder of the right to life to decide his own death is, first of all, an act of altruism, an act of deep love for his neighbor, but also of respect—to respect that the will of someone on his own must be prevalent to those who suffer from seeing go. To do the opposite, to think first of us than of the other, could be an act of selfishness, it would even be an act of some sovereign think that we know more of the life of others than they themselves. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, death is a suffering, but inexorably greater for those who are left than for those who leave. So I ask: must we, in order to avoid our psychological suffering, impose a physical suffering on whom he does not want to suffer? I definitely don't think so. I am therefore a humanist and anthropocentrist conviction that places not only man but also human dignity at the center of philosophical thought and at the center of humanity. I am therefore completely against the fact that the State can decide on how and under what conditions someone should die — I consider this a civil barrier that cannot be overcome — but, following the same line of reasoning, I cannot be in favour of the State deciding to keep us alive even against our will.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u62	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u63	I am for life, I am for dignity, I am for self-determination, I am for love of neighbor, I am for a state that does not want to moralize society, I am for the principle of non-interference in the life of each one of us. I am all this because I believe that every human being - and his life - must be respected by everyone so that we do not want to be ourselves, the others, to have the claim to decide on it. Therefore, I continue, in essence, what teaches us of altruism the prayer of Saint Francis, with which I conclude: «O Master, make me seek more comfort than to be comforted, understand what to be understood, love than to be loved». [[PSD, PS and BE applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u64	Mr André Coelho Lima, wrote to request clarification from Mrs Mariana Mortágua and Mrs Bebiana Cunha. Mrs Mariana Mortágua from the Left Block has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u65	Mr President, Mr André Coelho Lima, I would like to begin by welcoming you for the intervention you have just made. This debate is not new, it is not new in society, where, with more or less silence, it has been present for many decades, but it is not new in Parliament, which in 2017 and 2018 promoted a deep discussion on the decriminalization of assisted death. No Member can therefore say, consciously, that he did not have time or conditions to take a position.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u66	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u67	As a result, it is legitimate for the Assembly of the Republic also to do so in the full exercise of its democratic powers. More than that: not only can you do it, because it is our responsibility to legislate, on behalf of the people and our mandate, on complex decisions like this. Today, we answer a specific question: a person who has an irreversible prognosis of fatal disease, who is in a situation of deep and irreducible suffering and who, in a lucid and conscious manner, wants to avoid this degrading agony, should we force him to endure the prolongation of this suffering, as violent as useless, preventing him from deciding how he wants to live his death with dignity? I don't think so. I believe that this is not a question of ideological conceptions of state or market, I think that this is not a question of our relationship with religion or a fundamental change in our conception of life as a gift and as a right. Yes, it is a very difficult discussion about free will, concerning the last moment of our lives. After all, what we are deciding is whether society should prevent or allow the health system to help stop a suffering that has no cure and which the sufferer considers intolerable. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, no one should be forced to define until he is no longer, until he is no longer aware of himself, and as such, it is a matter of respecting the dignity that each one has chosen for himself. This is, therefore, ultimately a matter of humanity and compassion. What about humans in forcing someone to suffer, against their will, when there is nothing beyond that suffering but death? It is about humanity that we speak, and that is why the decriminalization of assisted death brings together so many people—left, right, Catholics, atheists—and joins us in the desire to respect all. We respect those who freely choose to live their suffering to the end and also respect those who, in order to maintain their dignity, decide for an end without suffering. Mr President, I welcome you again and appeal to all Members and to all Members. Members to vote for the end of the criminalization of an act of respect for the will of those in suffering. A suffering that goes beyond the limits of what we, here, or anyone else, can judge. by voting in this way, I am sure that we will also respect the majority opinion of the Portuguese people. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u68	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Bebiana Cunha of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u69	Mr President, Mr André Coelho Lima, first of all I welcome your statement and Mr Rui Rio for the clear manner in which he stood in the debate we are having today in 2018. At the time he said, and I quote: « It is an imperative of the State, through its instruments of political intervention, to assume that the decriminalization of euthanasia should be a right enshrined in the Portuguese legal system ». He also stressed that « the States are responsible for correct reading of the trends of each time(...), which enshrines in the law the possible balance of the rights of each and every other, safeguarding the common good, without jeopardising the legitimate impulses of individual freedom ». We welcome you by maintaining this position and, above all, by showing that this is a matter of human rights. In 2018 he stated that « being the subject of euthanasia of the exclusive forum of the Assembly of the Republic, it should be recognised to each Member who votes in conscience and who is able to surpass his or her individual option what he or she believes should be the freedom of each individual, the individual freedom of each one ». In 2020 it maintained — and well — its position, on the one hand, rejecting the demagogic path of a reference to the question of assisted drug death, assuming that, because of the fundamental rights involved, this is not a referenceable matter. Consequently, you gave each of the Members freedom of vote. Members and Members of the PSD. In welcoming again your speech, we appeal to the Members and to the Members. PSD members vote in conscience,... [[Protests from PSD Members.]] ... that honor what are the fundamental values of the PSD and that follow the wind of respect for human dignity and for the valorization of individual freedom or, otherwise, will be placed alongside visions such as those of the Arrival, CDS and PCP. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, where will you stand then? [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u70	To reply, Mr André Coelho Lima has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u71	Mr President, Mrs Mariana Mortágua and Mrs Bebiana Cunha, I begin by thanking the questions that have been put, which have been statements more than questions, and taking advantage of the circumstances they have done to praise the speech of my colleague Mr António Ventura. In fact, his intervention, along with my own, demonstrates that which is the plurality of thought existing in this party and also demonstrates that which is the greatness of the position taken to give us that same freedom. [[PSD applause.]] Mrs Mariana Mortágua, your question has been, in what I could retain, on the criminal side and it is important to fix this very, i.e., what we are discussing here is whether, unfortunately, what many of our fellow citizens do for themselves should be done with the help of what we all represent, which is the State. To put the question to it is to ask the question itself, which is what is at the heart of the matter. I conclude by saying the following: my position was clear, my position is mine and I did not want to take this moment to reiterate it, out of necessity but also, above all, out of respect for my colleagues on the bench. Each, with his properly mature conscience, will do what he understands. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u72	For the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, Mr Telmo Correia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u73	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We are discussing today a set of proposals on euthanasia or assisted suicide. We are again called, a little more than a year and a half later, for a debate that, as the CDS has said, is a debate without the debate being matured in Portuguese society, without essential elements, no fundamental studies, no assessment of the impact and consequences of the National Health Service, but in which all the most relevant opinions in this matter—such as the Order of Physicians, the Order of Nurses and the Order of Psychologists—are against the draft laws on euthanasia that are presented here today. More: this is a debate which was not included in the electoral programmes of the parties that are now proposing and which obviously directly conflicts with Article 24. that of the Constitution, when it says that human life is inviolable. The CDS is a humanist party of a personalist matrix. That is why, in total freedom—because each of us will also vote as he understands, in total freedom—we assume that, for us, there are no more or less worthy human lives, there are no human lives worth living and others than not. Life always has the same value, from its beginning to its natural end. [[CDS-PP applause.]] This debate is indeed a civil debate and values, but, contrary to what its proponents want, the eventual approval here today does not represent an advance but rather a disaster of civilizational backwardness. Let us be clear: what is at stake is not the fight against therapeutic obstination, which already exists, or the shutdown of the machine. None of that is euthanasia. What is at stake in these projects is not even a supposed right to die, what is at stake is the possibility of, on request and under the circumstances described, someone being killed by another, by lethal injection or by an oral administration, for example, a fatal element. That is what is at stake, and that is what is proposed to us. Here is a first problem, the problem of health professionals, doctors. I want to tell you, perhaps in a personal testimony, that, many years ago, when I asked a question, I learned, with the answer, a simple and direct message, of which I remember as if it were today: "A doctor never approaches a patient, but not to treat him, to heal him, to help him! A doctor never approaches a patient to kill him». To admit the opposite would have, moreover, a tragic consequence, that would be to break trust not only between the doctor and his patient, but also in the National Health Service itself, because we would have a system that would not only serve to treat the patients, but would also be a system for which the patients would enter with the prospect of being killed by him. This is obviously not acceptable. Let us be clear: euthanasia is not, will never be, a treatment, nor will it ever be, a medical act!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u74	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u75	We are obviously not indifferent to the arguments, which we have heard here, of freedom or even compassion. No one is indifferent to human suffering. But this argument is a fallacy, which does not resist obvious questions. First question: how does a present and so-called 'intolerable' suffering compatible with the existence of a free and lucid choice at the same time? Does this suffering in itself not condition that choice? Doesn't it make you decisive? And, relieved of suffering, could choice not be another? Second question: who defines, and with what legitimacy, the value of this pain or suffering, and pain varies from person to person and, of course, the notion of suffering as well? On the other hand, we all know that medicine can, in the future, find solutions and cures for what today is incurable. Question, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, does that not make you think, in particular, of the euthanasia of the younger, since it is proposed from 18 years old? We obviously run several risks. How did it happen in the Netherlands and how it is recognised by the system control authorities themselves in the Netherlands, do we not risk creating such a "slip ramp", which leads to the fact that euthanasia has been extended much beyond what was stated in the law itself? We are at risk of being killed people whose will to die is determined on the basis of a depressive state, diagnosed or not, a sort of « tiredness of life», which overlaps with the natural human drive to live. In some cases, the risk of 'right to die' can be replaced by a kind of 'duty to die', determined by the concern not to overburden their own, their family or even society and the community by establishing a suicide culture. On the other hand, it is shocking to admit euthanasia in a country in which, at the level of the National Health Service, almost everything is missing! Indeed, we are in a country where patients die waiting for consultation.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u76	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u77	We are in a country where the elderly are abandoned in hospitals. We are in a country where only 25% of the population has access to palliative care. And it is clear that, between pain and death, what is in the middle of the road is palliative care, to which only 25% of the population has access. There are lack of doctors, lack of nurses, there are regions of the country without any palliative care unit. The average time of palliative care per patient per week is 45 minutes. in this country, it is particularly shocking to institute euthanasia. I shall end, Mr President, by leaving, on behalf of the CDS and in freedom, an appeal to this House: that we reject these projects in consciousness!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u78	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u79	They were not in the electoral programs and were therefore hidden from the Portuguese. They clash with our constitutional order, but also with the deliberations of the Council of Europe and the main professional orders, with religious confessions and with secular humanism and, above all, with our conscience as a society. That is why the appeal of a wrong decision which can be taken here, whether it is the constitutional remedy, whether it is the reference for the whole of the national community, is not only legitimate — and the CDS will be in favour, if it is the case and if it is proposed here — as is a duty of legitimate resistance, given the seriousness of the decision here defended today by some Members. Ladies and gentlemen. After all, what are you afraid of? — that is the question.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u80	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u81	Today, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we make a choice, a choice of life or death, a choice between helping, caring, always protecting or opting for death, a choice between ending pain and suffering or ending the person who is in pain and suffering. The CDS, as always, says "yes" to life. The CDS will vote free for life. [[Congratulations from the CDS-PP, CH and PSD Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u82	Mr Telmo Correia, Mr. Mr Moisés Ferreira, from BE, and Mr Pedro Delgado Alves, from the PS, signed up to request clarifications, but the honourable Member does not have time to answer. I don't know if you guys are. Ladies and gentlemen, in any case, they want to make requests for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u83	Mr President, if I may, we are available to give 30 seconds of our time to the CDS-PP in order to respond.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u84	You can't say it's a lot, but, finally, it's a sign.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u85	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u86	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u87	Mr President, it is only to say that it may be difficult to give the answer at that time, but we will not steal from it and, coming from the Left Block, for us, it is already quite generous.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u88	Any more parliamentary group wants to give up some time to the CDS? [[Pause.]] I don't think so. In any case, there will be the necessary flexibility here. Mr Moisés Ferreira has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u89	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Telmo Correia, only and exclusively, at the request of the patient, with follow-up by health professionals, requested repeatedly and consciously by someone with incurable and fatal disease and in situations of unbearable suffering. I found it very good to start here, because you have used many minutes of your speech to talk about anything else that is not. But this is what you are debating.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u90	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u91	That's what you're discussing. At the end of life, in very concrete situations and in the face of suffering that goes beyond what the person considers to be bearable, the person can decide or not on this very end of life. It is not about killing, it is not about deciding on another; it is about humanism, compassion and love. And believe that so many families, who have already experienced this problem, know that it is about humanism, compassion and love. It is about freedom, giving people freedom to decide how to spend the last moments of their lives. It is a matter of respect for that person’s decision. It is to help those who ask for help to avoid their suffering. And this is also about empathy for the suffering of others and, often, for the suffering of those who are closest to us. Life is a right. But it is not an obligation to live beyond the suffering that is considered to be bearable. And it's a person's decision, it's not a person's decision. Society will certainly be able to build the instruments to implement this decision; health care, of course; palliative care, no doubt, but also the possibility of anticipating its death.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u92	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u93	None of this is mutually exclusive. All of this must exist. The question, Mr President, is: why should we impose suffering? The question is, why hold the person to the pain and violence of being set against his will? The question, Mr President, is: why subjecting the other person to something that the person no longer considers to be his life? The answer, Mr, is: there is no reason for that.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u94	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u95	But I'd like to ask you something else. In his speech, he made a reference to a supposed appeal for resistance if death was decriminalised. I am very curious about what you mean by this call for resistance. [[Congratulations from BE and PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u96	Mr Pedro Delgado Alves of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u97	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Telmo Correia, the first question I put to you is precisely the legitimacy of this Parliament and this parliamentary debate which is taking place here, because I think it makes statements which do not entirely correspond to what is the facts. It is that, indeed, this matter was in the electoral programmes of various parties and I think that no one, in good faith, in this House, in this country, can have any doubt as to the position of any party, even of those who did not have it in their electoral program.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u98	Oh, is it? Oh, my
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u99	The position of the Socialist Party is clear, since its Congress in 2016 ; it was clear in the previous legislature; it was clear in the presentation of an initiative in the previous legislature. I therefore believe that, in good faith, this should be the substantial debate on the subject under discussion and that it really deals with the topic of decriminalization of euthanasia in special situations provided for by law. [[CDS-PP protests.]] Secondly, I also think that we should look at the debate, which is a complex constitutional debate, not considering that there are constitutional values that have to be shared between themselves, that the dignity of the human person means that each person is unique and irrepeatable and that it is not an object, one thing, is an end in itself. And, to be an end in itself, it means that I have the ability to determine myself, to choose what, for me, is the dignity with which I see the end of my life, so that I can have this free, clear and serious decision, so that I can advise myself with my friends and my family or choose not to advise me with my friends and family, so that I can follow the dictates of my conscience or my faith or the power not to follow the dictates of my conscience or my faith. In the Father's house there are many dwellings. In the House of Democracy there must also be many dwellings. All dwellings, so that all citizens can have in the law something that allows them to reflect their choice at a given time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u100	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u101	The law now closes the door to those who do not understand and do not share these values and to those who think they should be able to choose, and we are not protecting them. For those who have a different understanding, the law will continue to protect them in the same way and we will be all those who, in the first line, will be there to ensure that no one is forced into anything that he does not want. And the Penal Code will continue to exist to protect all people who want to face suffering at the end of their lives in another way, with stoicism, with the desire to have more minutes with their relatives, one more hour, one more second. But this decision, Mr Telmo Correia, is not yours, is not mine, is not from any of the people of this House. That is the decision of each individual human being, and that must be the decision that this Parliament must take. [[P.S., BE, P.N. and PSD Members' applause.]] I leave two brief final notes. We must not, therefore, be paternalist. Suffering and choice will be compatible and possible. Therefore, I cannot replace someone, I do not know how far the dose of suffering goes from one person or another, and that is why the law has the guarantees and precautions to ensure that, through the intervention of a medical guide, an expert doctor and, if necessary, a psychiatrist, someone says so. Will is free, will is clarified and that is the role of the State, to guarantee the freedom and clarification of that law. Another question which you put, and which is relevant, is this: "What if the cure happens? And if one day, the cure is possible? » Again, it is a judgment for each one, no one has to wait in the event of the cure being discovered. There are people who will make this choice, there are people who will be available to suffer, if necessary, because they have the faith and belief that the cure may appear, and there are others who may think that this is not tolerable and that they should not want to sacrifice the suffering, theirs or their relatives, waiting for that moment. But this judgment, once again, is not yours, Mr. Member, it is not mine, it is not from any of the Members in this House. This judgment is of each person individually and that is what the new law has to ensure. Finally, Mr President, at some point, I was asking about a duty to die. It's nothing like that, it's the other way around. There is no duty to live, associated with the text of our Constitution. And as someone very relevant in this debate, one of the subscribers of this petition, we may not want a lot of things, but surely no one wants to survive like that, when he already thinks it's not the person who wants to continue to be or who was. And this individual judgment must be the law to consecrate it, so changing the law I think is the only possible way to do it. [[PSP and PSD, BE and PAN applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u102	To reply, Mr Telmo Correia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u103	Mr President, starting with a reply to Mr Pedro Delgado Alves, I would like to say that this is not what is in your proposals.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u104	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u105	If that were the case, we would almost be talking about a sort of absolute right to life, a sort of right to suicide. That is not even what you are proposing.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u106	It's not, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u107	So pay attention to what is proposed. And if you want to ensure that the Socialist Party had this in its programme, or that some candidate of the Socialist Party in some electoral circle said this during the campaign, you tell me where, how and on what page this is from the Socialist Party Election Programme, because I saw nowhere. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]] Secondly, I would like to say the following: if you think I am a paternalist, I wonder why the overwhelming majority of the countries in the world and surely the overwhelming majority of the countries of the European Union do not have or, when discussed, have rejected euthanasia. Are they all paternalists? Are they all wrong? Is it just you and the Socialist Party that they're so forward and they've seen something else that no one else has seen? No, Mr. Member, they are not all paternalists, this matter inspires fears, justified fears, fear, Mr. Member! And, yes, Mr. José Manuel Pureza, it justifies fear. But it is better to be an ardor of caution and fear than an ardor of death—of the inevitable death they propose.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u108	All right! [[Hey!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u109	What a lowness!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u110	You better be careful, you better be afraid. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, by appealing to your serenity, I will say the following: you say that this is not going to happen and that it does not matter what happened in the other countries. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I have read and verified that you are responsible in the Netherlands for the monitoring of the monitoring and enforcement committee, which says that there are many cases, almost 30 %, on which the basis of euthanasia has not been sufficiently demonstrated. Mr. Moisés Ferreira, that is what concerns us too. And you know how the Dutch manager, Mr. Theo Boer, ends? You finish by saying the following, and it's good that all of you are. Members hear: « Do not repeat our mistakes».
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u111	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u112	What the Dutch leader has to say to this House is: "Don't repeat our mistakes! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” [[Congratulations from the CDS-PP, CH and PSD Members.]] Mr. Moisés Ferreira asked why he was insisting. I'll tell you why you should insist. First, because, contrary to what you say, talking to doctors, talking to palliative care specialists, like, for example, our former colleague Isabel Galliça Neto,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u113	Good independent sources!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u114	... speaking to so many people, what they tell us is that medicine today, increasingly, responds to suffering, answers to pain. Death is not an option, it is an inevitability and it is possible, today, to guarantee a life in dignity until the last moments of the patient. [[That's not true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u115	That's why we want to insist.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u116	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u117	I will finish, Mr. President. We want to insist that, in relation to someone who is desperate, who is in a difficult situation, if someone insists, if someone says "let's go for life", if someone doesn't want to give up a college of three doctors, two lawyers and no longer know who the decision about his life, maybe that person will recover, be treated and live not only a dignified life but also a life in total freedom. That's why we want to insist.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u118	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u119	Will we resist how, sir? Let's resist the constitutional arguments.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u120	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u121	We will resist, if necessary, giving the word to the people, because there is a people out there that,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u122	He's out! He's out!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u123	... in my opinion, I do not agree with your processes, having democratic humility in the decision. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u124	You have the floor, Mr Ventura, for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u125	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I wanted the story that we found today to decriminalize euthanasia on the day when Jacinta Marto died 100 years ago. The visionary of Fatima, one of the most respected in our country, will always be associated with the day when Parliament desecrated euthanasia. It is, at least, a historical provocation for the vast majority of Portuguese, who cannot stop looking at this day. That's true, sirs. Mr André Silva and Mr Moisés Ferreira, which euthanasia has a great historical disaster. In fact, he had here his great booster, Adolf Hitler, who in 1939 signed the decree that delineated euthanasia in Germany. Here he is, so that history does not forget those who promote these same practices.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u126	Don't offend your followers!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u127	There is no need to say much to realize that in a country where no palliative care exists, in a Parliament which refuses to criminalize the abandonment of the elderly, if it is now going to decriminalise their death and allow them to have the so-called 'assisted death'. Mr President, before I finish, because my time is short, I would like to say this: I no longer hope that this House will revert to this very serious decision today, but I appeal to the President of the Republic, to the President who will have elections soon, so as not to forget the Portuguese who are out there... [[PS and BE protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u128	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u129	...and that they want to have the chance, to at least be able to vote. If you have the courage, let's give the Portuguese the floor to speak about euthanasia. They deserve and those who are not afraid have nothing to lose with the path that will now be done. Let's see who's afraid and who doesn't have to listen to the Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u130	Mr Porfirio Silva, from the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u131	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Let me start by reflecting on the intervention Mr.António Filipe brought us here, focusing on the obligations of the State. At the initiative of the PS, respect for the autonomy of the person is a fundamental dimension. But there is undoubtedly a social, collective dimension of this value. There is an irreducible ethical dimension in this debate. And the truth is, I don't recognize myself in individualistic ethics either. By transposing a shared liability ethic to a reasoning about State obligations, I would not support legislation that was indifferent to the willingness to die for any reason and in any circumstances, because I believe that legislation should express a balance between the individual plan and the social impact of standards. I therefore welcome the PS proposal. But I also do not believe that it is productive to return to the theories of opposition between individual rights and collective rights, because, historically, such conceptions have resulted in regimes to crush individual freedoms.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u132	No one's been talking about it!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u133	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no room for any arrogance when it comes to life and death. And death is part of life, death is even a very important step in life. Doubts, we all have, because natural death has long ceased to be the most common death, surrounded as we are by drugs and machines, by a technical-scientific apparatus capable of transforming the right to life into a duty to live. But human life is not only biology and not all the technique and all the technology together can relieve pain. And who are we to judge the suffering of others?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u134	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u135	In such an important matter of weighting rights, we cannot close ourselves at false borders. So I call to this debate Catholic theologian Hans Küng,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u136	What a beautiful reference!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u137	... that defends the possibility of a person choosing euthanasia as a way to let us assume a personal responsibility on the passage to death. Küng quotes from the Book of the Ecclesiastics this phrase: « There is a time to live and there is a time to die».
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u138	It has nothing to do with it!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u139	Let me hear you!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u140	It is a thought that significantly brings together responsibility for our life and responsibility for our death. The debate in civil society and in Parliament is going on for several years about the decriminalization of assisted death. It is understandable that nothing definitely suspends all our doubts. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask everyone and everyone, of all the benches, including mine: do we have the right, in the face of concrete people, who hope to be able to take responsibility for their death, to wait one year after the other, one legislature behind the other, repeating over and over again the same cycle of arguments, just to delay a decision? [[Congrats from PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u141	Delay? Delay what? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u142	We all have doubts — and they have to be worked in the field of specialty — but we have no right to demand the martyrdom of anyone. I think of those who make a decision about their death, but they cannot carry out what they have decided because physically they are no longer able to do alone. Is it fair to leave for another year, for another legislature, a response to your option? No one decides to die because of it. No one decides to die out of a low mood. All life has dignity, but I don't want to impose my view of dignity on someone else, just as I don't want to suffer, I, this imposition. This is what moves us, so simply. [[Congrats from PS and BE and PAN Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u143	Mr Joacine Katar Moreira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u144	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Neither religious concerns, nor the anxieties of conservative or ultra-conservative political ideologies, nor the euphoria of foreign opinions, nor even the calm of some viewpoints can call into question the self-determination, freedom and dignity that each and everyone has in democracy. I will vote in favour of any initiative for the decriminalization of drug-assisted death, precisely because we deserve, each and every one, a death that does not dehumanize us. And that, at the end of our existence, we have the chance to die in a way that dignifies our existence. [[Congratulations from BE, PAN and PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u145	Mr Alexandre Quintanilla, from the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u146	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Since 2012 the current Vital Testament allows the patient to request the possibility of avoiding artificial prolongation of his life. But he does not allow them to help him end that life. It is thinking of one of these forms of help that PS presents its project. It is guided by the values of courage and humility as well as respect, dignity and compassion and meets an irrefutable and obvious reality. For PS, the most noble goal of democracy is to give each person the necessary conditions so that he can freely and independently choose his life project, giving the same freedom to others. Democracy teaches us how to value the way the other person wakes us up, questions us, challenges us, or even bothers us with their life projects. The PS project does not describe euthanasia, which is very clear. It defines, yes, rigorously and demandingly, the situations in which the help of health professionals can be requested by someone who wants to end their suffering, as well as the procedures so that such help is not penalized. The proposal shows courage, because, when it comes to a theme that gives rise to strong emotions, it meets a need recognized by many of our citizens, demonstrates humility in the care of their writing, in extremely restrictively delimiting the cases in which it applies, and deals with the other with respect, dignity and compassion required when making one of the most important decisions of their lives. The current demographic evolution exposes us even more to conflicting end-of-life stories. If, for some, the obvious choice is palliative care, for others, their repeated desire is to quickly end their suffering. But what many would like was to have truly the option of choosing when they arrive and is thinking about them that this project is presented. The dialogue between extreme positions is, and will always be, difficult. Some talk about therapeutic obstination, while others say about the prepotence of autonomy. However, among prestigious health professionals and eminent thinkers, including in the most diverse religions, the range of arguments and opinions is enormous. It would be, at least, levian or even defamatory to accuse some of being more competent or truer than others. The idea that those who are in favour of assisted death are against palliative care is insulting and fear that palliative care can be neglected presupposes that those who opt for other solutions may be less accompanied. The reports from other countries, of people who, having entered palliative care, can no longer exercise their right to leave. Defenders of palliative care claim that in situations of great fragility, it is easy to convince the person that it is not even worth doing anything else. But this argument also works to convince you exactly the opposite and only who is very ill-informed is that you do not know the numerous cases, through this outside world, of helping patients near the end who want to speed up their death, all done in hiding, outside the law, with enormous risks of denunciation and with very serious professional consequences, as well as the numerous cases where they do not get that help and suffer years before they die. One of our goals is to end these situations. the arguments of the sliding ramp, I think the previous successes in the area of drug addiction and voluntary interruption of pregnancy speak for themselves. For these and many other reasons, widely debated, the PS believes that there is clearly a political, social, professional and ethical space for this assisted death and defends, in the conditions clearly stated in this project, that the help of health professionals can and should be decriminalized. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It was by the will of others that we were born. May the same not happen to our plan of life and death. [[Congrats from PS and BE and PAN Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u147	It is now the turn of the PSD Parliamentary Group, of which the Bureau records two entries to intervene. The first intervention is for Mrs Sofia Matos and Mrs Cláudia Bento. Mrs. Sofia Matos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u148	Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mrs. and Mrs. Members: Many times, in fact, almost every time we go to this House and, consequently, to the Portuguese, we do so in the name of the causes we defend, in order to, through the word and letter of law, represent the Portuguese and get the other political forces to support our convictions. But today's not what I'm going to do. I do not intend to convince anyone to vote like me, or to see the world for the same lens as me. I do not come to see that you think as I do, because I do not believe that I have that right, in the same way that my party will not do it and exactly the way no other Member or parliamentary group should do it. I believe that we are all fully aware that today we do not vote on a current or daily matter of Parliament, but rather on a subject of unusual complexity and sensitivity. For the PSD today is not a day of unanimity and the best way to express democracy on fracturing issues is to give freedom to the diversity that will be reflected in the vote that we are going to carry out today. I am sure that, if this is the case in all parties, the vote of each of us, in this plenary, will well represent the democratic plurality of opinions and values, both inside and outside the Chamber. The diplomas we are considering today have in common a specific addressee, provide security and provide for the circumstances in which one can resort to the anticipation of the end of life. Without radicalism, I know that, about the people I do not want, nor can I deny this possibility, they are older citizens who are conscious and able to decide, who suffer from a disease without cure, irreversible and fatal, causing atrocious suffering. Regarding the guarantees and circumstances of the procedure, the diplomas still provide for several stages of decision, which undergo a medical, clinical and psychological assessment, several times evaluated and confirmed. But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, let it be clear to all that the regulation of euthanasia cannot at any time mean less investment by the State in the palliative care network, because the insufficient palliative care that exists today in Portugal should be the priority and first option for all those who suffer, being intolerable, with euthanasia, the State of its social functions and care with the most sick. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this system, our democratic system has been created to give space to everyone's opinion and conscience, and that is exactly what the PSD has done. I have the perfect notion of the importance of the subject we are discussing today, but I cannot help but complain to these people what I demand for myself: to be able to choose.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u149	All right! That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u150	Of all those who today feel here and outside about euthanasia, only those who are sick are really aware of what it is to endure an intractable suffering. My conscience says that I must vote in favour of these diplomas, giving these citizens the opportunity to choose to live or die, according to the dignity criteria that each of them has built throughout their lives. If the rule of law that I defend cannot dictate who lives and who dies, the model of society in which I believe and that I want to help build must ensure that all care to whom I am in the end of life is given, but must not force anyone to live to whom torment and pain will be the only expression of life he will know, until the day of his death. What we promise you, in the PSD, is respect for any position taken by each of the 230 Members, because the complexity of the issues of life and death, as we have today's responsibility to vote, cannot, under any circumstances, serve as a political Chicana. They're too important for that. We all know — from left to right — that we respect each one's decision. We all know how to honor the places we occupy in this Assembly of the Republic. [[Applause from the PSD and BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u151	It is the time of Mrs Cláudia Bento of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u152	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Portuguese society is confronted with several legislative initiatives, the ultimate aim of which is the legalization of euthanasia. Being a controversial matter, it requires reflection and weighting, since it violates one of the pillars of fundamental rights: the right to life. Given the freedom of vote which was granted to me as PSD Member and after much reflection, I explain the reasons that lead me to vote against these bills. One of the arguments for the practice of euthanasia is that of individual freedom and the right to die with dignity. It should be recalled that the Portuguese legal order already provides for several of these directives anticipated of will, in particular in the form of a vital will and appointment of health care prosecutor. The law guarantees everyone, through informed consent, the right to refuse procedures or therapies that do not match with their conception of life. On the other hand, there can never be absolute assurance that the request for euthanasia is truly free and unequivocal, but will always be irreversible. Often, it can translate a depressive state or be a call of attention for those who feel abandoned or consider themselves a burden to the family and society.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u153	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u154	Another argument in favour is the release of suffering. Suffering with euthanasia is not eliminated. With death, the life of the sufferer is eliminated. The path, in these situations, must be made through the elimination of therapeutic incarnation, forcing pain control measures and combating symptoms. Palliative care provides an active and planned response to problems arising from prolonged, incurable and progressive disease, in order to prevent the suffering it generates and to provide quality of life for these patients and their families. In fact, palliative care fails and does not reach 70% of Portuguese. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is not acceptable to put euthanasia as a therapeutic option when the National Health Service is so fragile. More: euthanasia is not a medical act; it is a violation of medical ethics. With the legalization of euthanasia, there are already consequences in countries that have legalized it, the first being that of the destruction of the medical-patient relationship. Medicine is based on its practice in the diagnosis and treatment of diseases, in the monitoring and relief of the suffering of patients, always for the purpose of protecting human life. In the presence of a doctor who performs euthanasia, the patient may be afraid that the patient will not provide him with adequate treatment or decide to stop treatment, compromising the confidence in which the patient's doctor-patient relationship is based. I believe that the doctor's response can only be to alleviate suffering and ensure well-being, but never to precipitate his death. The second consequence is the phenomenon of the sliding ramp. The first laws in Belgium and the Netherlands used a language that was almost identical to the bills under discussion today. over time, the alleged safeguards of legal protection have been extinguishing. They moved from situations of limited scope, with restricted conditions, to wider use. It passes from euthanasia consented by the victim himself to euthanasia consented by relatives of newborns, children, adults with disabilities, dementes or people in unconscious states. Examples of Dutch escapes fearing that the family itself authorizes the anticipation of their death are a warning. More: many cases of euthanasia never reach verification committees. How can a law define extreme suffering? The suffering results from an appreciation that only the self can properly evaluate and in none of the bills the degree of suffering is measurable, which ultimately means that the final decision on euthanasia will be of the doctor. What is a definitive injury? Will he be deaf? Will it be amputated? Thirdly, there may be moral cohesion on the weakest, who often feel like a burden on family members or on society. In this way, the legalization of euthanasia may encourage them to seek it. In the Netherlands, 18 years since decriminalization, the use of Drion tablet has already been discussed for those over 70 years of age who are tired of living.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u155	It's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u156	Parliament must avoid speedy legislation, inducing unwanted cleavage. Once decided, there's no turning back. Why ignore the reality of countries where euthanasia is legalized? Aren't we scared? Are we sure that the law will not evolve into more permissive legislation? Will the National Health Service prepare for the practice of euthanasia be found? New tasks and responsibilities will be required if these bills are approved. Finally, referring to an open letter from some health professionals to Members, in which I, as a doctor and Member of Parliament, also wake up and support : « We hope that Portugal will continue to be a witness to the protection of human life». [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u157	We're going for the last few interventions. I don't know if any party that hasn't submitted bills and still has time to intervene. In the specific case, only the PSD is in this situation. That is not the case, for one speech, Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Greens. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u158	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have heard during the debate some statements that, perhaps, needed some adjustment to put some points to us. The bill that The Greens present — in this respect I believe to be similar to the other projects, because it is common to all — is based on three central elements. The first is that medically assisted death is only possible in certain situations, that is, in cases of disease without cure, irreversible and fatal, in which there is suffering, awareness that this will be until the end of life and that the person is over 18 years old. The request must also be repeated, free, conscious and convincing. Finally, the process must be surrounded by appropriate precautionary and guarantee measures. I believe that both the Greens' proposal and the others are careful of the essentials to be guarded. Another thing that also needs to be clarified is that none of the proposals under discussion force anyone to choose. No one is forced to choose.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u159	It was also what was missing!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u160	What we consider is that this option, or that right, should be available so that people who want to make use of it can do so under certain, very particular conditions. In other words, I think that the question that must be raised is this: does the State have the right to force someone to live with an incurable disease, suffering and upon his own request to die? Does the State have the right to force that person to continue living? We don't think so. We believe that the State should not only force the person to continue living, but should also hear him and, above all, respect his will.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u161	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u162	We know that we are talking about a legal good that is supreme—we are talking about life. But what we cannot do is to confuse the place of the right to life in our legal order, as a fundamental right that is, with a supposed duty or obligation to remain alive, and to remain alive even when a person has the prospect, which is his, personal and untransmitted, of having only to expect more suffering, perhaps even more painful than he who has suffered for a few years, and no longer recognizes in his own life the minimum dignity of the condition of the person and the human being. We know that this is a difficult and delicate matter and that this is a difficult process, but we also know that it is in difficult processes that we must assume that precautions must be taken to ensure that certain limits are not exceeded and that there is no sliding beyond what is intended. And I believe that both our proposal and the others that are under discussion assure you that. I wanted to leave another note on an association that some Mr. Members suggested between the death of assisted medicine and the quality of palliative services. The Greens believe that one thing has nothing to do with the other. [[But it does!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u163	There is a Basic Law on Palliative Care, and if there is no greater investment in such care, as in continuing care, it is because, over time, there have been those who exchange this investment for the deficit values and always put the deficit in front of everything. And there were others who, without speaking of deficit, also cut in health, palliative care and continued care. This means, therefore, that the proposals that are under discussion in nothing, but in absolutely nothing, contribute to reducing, smoothing or even disresponsibility of the State with regard to its duty to ensure patient access to palliative care and to ensure a good network of such care. It is not the decriminalization of assisted drug death, at the request of the patient and in extreme cases, that will withdraw any money that is to invest in palliative care, until the assisted drug death does not imply the hiring of more doctors or nurses or investments in hospital equipment. what is involved is to allow a person, in very well defined cases, to decide what to do with the end of his life. It is not the State which must decide for it, it is the very person who must decide, provided, of course, certain assumptions are guaranteed, leading to respect for its capable, express, free and instant will. [[Congratulations on the ENP and on the members of the PS and BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u164	For an intervention on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mrs Maria Antónia de Almeida Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u165	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This debate has shown, until exhaustion, that decriminalizing euthanasia under very special conditions is an undeniable theme in Portugal. It is complex, it is sensitive, but we cannot and should not escape from it, and we know how to do so with respect for the plurality of positions that we all represent. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u166	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, living is a right and protecting life is a duty of the state — no one contests it. But we cannot ignore the people for whom the diagnosis is irreversible and who are in extreme suffering, surviving a meaningless life for themselves. It is not about instrumentalizing life, but rather about legislating under conditions that an application for euthanasia is not punishable. It is to meet the request to shorten the life by decision of the patient himself, in a situation of extreme suffering, with definitive injury or fatal and incurable disease, when practised with the help of health professionals, without being persecuted and convicted. It's about this, and only about this, that's about it. [[P.S. and BE Members' Applause.]] We have presented an unequivocal project, which responds to legitimate and understandable reservations about respect for the patient's will, free, serious and clarified, and therefore we guarantee that only a present and repeated will is acceptable. We are aware of the importance of this requirement. Let us not admit that this will is different when the patient is no longer fully aware. We respect the sick person, help to reduce their suffering, respect their autonomy — that is, give him all the dignity we want to defend. The patient's conscious, free and informed will is sovereign. It's your decision. But what diagnosis can we make of the current situation? Today, some patients live in the presence of an unknown: there are doctors who help, there are doctors who want to help, but they fear punishment, because there is no legal framework to protect them, and there are doctors who will always be conscientious objectors. In addition, there is a real situation of inequality between those who can ask for help, going abroad, and those who cannot. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: For this reason too, the decriminalization of euthanasia in very restricted and weighted situations is safer than the framework in which we now live.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u167	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u168	The inevitability of death calls us to think about our lives to the end. Taking advantage of our existence, taking on our uniqueness includes all possibilities. Some people don't want to stop being who I was. Don't let the Penal Code stop him! [[P.S. and BE's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u169	Mrs Bebiana Cunha, from the NAP, now has the floor also for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u170	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The NAP has been next to all patients, family members and professionals who hope that the death of assisted medicine can be possible in Portugal. For this reason, we have incorporated this commitment into our Electoral Programme: "Dependance of death assisted medicine by conscious and repeated decision of the person with definitive injury or incurable and irreversible disease and who is in lasting and unbearable suffering. Do not keep on seeking. ” This is a theme that necessarily involves multiple glances, which intertwines with different domains of personal, professional, cultural and ideological thought and which are imposed on the clarification and debate, the auscultation of all sectors of society, the presentation and understanding of the different perspectives. This was a road that began in Portugal in the past and had a remarkable moment in Portuguese politics during its debate in the Assembly of the Republic, in May 2018. Since then, there have been several media, professional, political and social scenarios in which this topic has been discussed. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we are not today on the same footing as the discussion we were in 2018. It proves this are the different projects of different parties, the numerous testimonies of patients and family members, the unprecedented articles of opinion that were written on this subject and the mobilization of civil society as a whole. As it is expectable and revealing the plurality of perspectives in a democratic society, there have been many positions about assisted drug death. In the fearful voices, the unconstitutionality of the proposals is mentioned, invoking Article 24. that of our Constitution: "Human life is inviolable. » It happens that the right to life, although tendingly absolute, does not currently have the configuration of an absolute right nor is it irrevocable. We do not question this fundamental value of the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic. We can only not understand it in the light of the confusion generated, when in question is the intentionally wrong comparison of an act of extreme and necessary kindness with the death penalty or murder. On the other hand, we can't help but remember, ladies and gentlemen. Members, who are several constitutionalists who have defended that a law that allows the death of assisted medicine is constitutional and that the current situation, yes, is unconstitutional, because it does not comply with the will of the patient or with human dignity, nor does it recognise the will of the person to decide on the most decisive and intimate issues of his life, where also decisions on the conditions of his own death are included. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, life is much more than physical and physiological life. Life brings with it a psychological life, an emotional life, a social life, a sense of life. We already use, with natural understanding, the concept of "human being" while being biopsychosocial, precisely because we all know that human life goes far beyond strictly physical life. That is why, when we speak of life as an inviolable right, we speak of all spheres of human life, with the awareness that life is only truly inviolable when respect for individuality, belief, values of each person is ensured, respecting Article 41. the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, which refers to freedom of conscience and religion. Thus, it is in the defense of these values that we consider that the patient's will must be taken into account when he manifests, consciously and clearly, the will to conform his life according to his own conceptions. We've also heard Mr. and Mr. Members invoke arguments on the role of the State, calling it « paternalist », « repressor », « regulator ». But, after all, who has the decision on the end of the patient’s life in a position to apply for the death of an assisted drug? Is it in Parliament?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u171	Don't!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u172	Are you the doctors?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u173	It is!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u174	Is it other health professionals? Who's that? Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a central issue of this debate. This decision only applies to those who unfortunately find themselves in this situation. They are the ones who, daily, 24 hours a day, every second, are confronted with what none of us would like to see. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we would like you to imagine yourself in this situation, with the inexplicable suffering of pain that you fear will not pass away, with the anguish of knowing that in this suffering neither the best science, the best technical knowledge, nor the most qualified human professionals will be able to appease. And the question you ask yourself, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what right do we, each of us present here, have to say legitimately that that one, who is not me, has to live his life in suffering to the end? What a right we have, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen? Among the reasons cited in the opinions of the National Council of Ethics for Life Sciences, are the obstacles that they consider to be able to put to the implementation of the practice of assisted drug death, suggesting that the means and expenses with this response could lead to reducing other health care in the National Health Service. But this argument fades away, because we talk about ending suffering. It was also invoked, as a difficulty, the uncertainty of professionals available for this answer. We recall the survey conducted by the Director of Palliative Care of the IPO ( Portuguese Institute of Oncology ) of the Port, addressed to Portuguese doctors, about the practice of euthanasia. The investigation concluded that 51 % of physicians were in favour, 32 % did not agree and 17 % did not have a formal opinion. When asked if they were available to carry it out, 37 % said that yes and six of these doctors admitted that they had already practiced it. These data, ladies and gentlemen. Members, come to confirm the statements of the staff of the Order of Nurses, which in 2016 already stated that euthanasia was a reality in Portuguese hospitals, a reality of which one could not speak openly, but with which health professionals are often confronted, emphasizing that this subject, because it is so serious, had to be openly debated, and the conditions for this practice to become possible through its regulation should be created. One of the advisers of the National Council of Ethics for Life Sciences, André Dias Pereira, states: “There have already been some doctors, and in relevant numbers, who reveal understanding for this different way of wanting ‘care’ in the end of life, it seems to me ethically unjustifiable to block out the path, for fear (not scientifically founded) that there will not be enough doctors to come to these citizens. Do not keep on seeking. ” It is, moreover, very positive the opinion of this adviser, who, in his statement of opinion to the NAP project, says : « In addition to the right to autonomy and freedom of conscience, there is, at the same time, the ethical principle of mercy or compassion in the sense of mercy towards those fellow citizens who, victims of an incurable illness and the source of unbearable suffering, wish to dispense from a predictable time of life, in the name of the elimination of suffering, through the aided cause of death. Do not keep on seeking. ” Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the project presented here is not against the professional exercise of those who have a mission to save lives. On the contrary, what is intended with this proposal is that, after having exhausted all possibilities in this professional exercise and guaranteed all possible clinical follow-up responses, the patient is also given in this equation which defines his own existence, a right that has never been given to him legally. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this project does not give up palliative or continuing care. In fact, assisted drug death will only be possible if everything else is tried. The NAP project comes first and foremost to reaffirm an inalienable human right, the right to an end of life, technically supported, consciously decided, in situations clinically proven as unable to return any relief to the suffering of the person in question, never exceeding those that are the missiles of health professionals, who will also be respected their personal and professional positions. In all the ages of history there were such important moments of questioning as this that we now experience here,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u175	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u176	... moments when what was commonly accepted and instituted becomes so meaningful that it puts into motion inevitable changes. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is clearly one of those moments! [[Congratulations on the PAN and on the members of the PS and BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u177	To close the debate, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u178	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At the close of this debate, one of the most important of the current legislation, I believe it is important to recognize the elevation and serenity with which the debate took place, both today and in recent days, in the country. [[All right!]] [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u179	The debate shows two particular ideas. On the one hand, regardless of our final choice, it shows the awareness that all and everyone have that this is a theme that confronts each and every one of us with what is most difficult in life, which is pain and suffering, but also with the fundamental choice about our existence. The second idea stems from the first: that, in fact, this issue is already quite discussed in our society and did not create any sort of social alarm. It is true that this debate is more than 20 years old, but we must recognize what is obvious in the eyes of all: it was in recent years, by the hands of John Semedo, that it again gained a fundamental attention, but we must also recognize both Laura Ferreira dos Santos, and John Ribeiro dos Santos, who accompanied this whole process. [[Congratulations from BE.]] In 2017, the Left Block released its draft law. Other parties also did so that same year. And after an entire year of debate—for example, the President of the Republic sponsored a cycle of debates promoted by the National Council of Ethics for Life Sciences—the recognition in 2018 was that the debate had been attended and informed for all. This was the presidential recognition. Even Pedro Passos Coelho wrote in 2018 the following : « No one can say that this is a surprise or a little thoughtful initiative. All parliamentary and party groups, such as the most concerned and concerned citizens of these matters, have thus had sufficient time to make the debate and reflection necessary to resolve a decision on this matter. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u180	Let's go to the referendum, then!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u181	If this participation was true two years ago and this information was true, we do not understand what has changed now. [[All right!]] [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u182	So from our point of view, we all have not only the obligation as the right to decide with this conscience, because that is the state of the country. A short time ago, we heard some of the arguments to which I believe it is worth answering with all serenity. There was an attempt to counteract the right to die with dignity the idea that there would be a duty in law to die, which is absolutely wrong. Repeat: false! On this, it is even appropriate to recover the words of José Saramago, because we know that this debate is about compassion, about humanity. He expressed it in a way that I think is unavoidable. He said: "No one has the right to tell a person who wants to get out of life? For no, you will stay there, connected to a date of tubes, connected to a date of machines».
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u183	Don't! It's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u184	I believe that this is the fundamental issue of this debate. I also call for this debate Ramón Sampedro, the Greek who, in 1968, remained tetraplegic following a dive on the beach and who for more than three decades fought for the right to end his life, which left no one indifferent. After making his will, he left a video of his last days. And he said to those who read this will: "After the images they have just seen, a person taking care of a deformed and atrophy body, my question: what does dignity mean to you? Whatever the answer of your consciences, to me dignity is not this. This is not to live properly». There are two teachings in these words. The first is the recognition that dignity is defined by ourselves, before ourselves,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u185	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u186	...and it is not imposed by others above us. The second teaching is that, if so, then we should not have a law that makes a choice for us, but, yes, a law that gives freedom to our choice. That's what we're discussing. [[Congratulations from BE.]] A dichotomy has been attempted between palliative care and assisted death, but I believe that this dichotomy tries to divert the debate from the essential, which is the recognition of a right to take in their hands the most important decision of their lives. And contrary to what attempts are made to appear with the idea that palliative care all solves, we know, and we know people, because we have all been confronted with this reality, that science has limits, that science cannot respond to all pain, all suffering, or especially dignity issues. So if this argument attempts to divert the debate from the essential, then what about the argument of the'sliding ramp'? It is that if the country has already shown something, this blackmail, when brought to the democratic debate, is not an acceptable blackmail, because any one of the examples in which the argument was raised — anyone! — shows that it is invalid.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u187	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u188	They said the same thing when we changed the laws on drug addiction, and now Portugal is an example on a global scale! They said the same thing when we denied the humiliation of women in the courts and the deaths of clandestine abortions, and today the numbers of the voluntary interruption of pregnancy go down every year!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u189	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u190	That is why more rights do not imply any deviation, because we trust — the reality has shown — that people know how to respect their rights. And that is also essential for us to believe in a mature democracy like ours. [[All right!]] [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP João Pinho de Almeida.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u191	They asked us, and I believe that this is a valid question, if we learn from international experiences. The answer is yes. We learn from the inadequacies of countries that already allow assisted death in their legislation. But we have also learned from numerous experiences of an oppressive state that denies this right. And with these experiences we recognize that Portugal can and should make a fundamental step forward today. I believe that this idea of a state that imposes the consciousness of some and the cruelty about the consciousness of one person is the wrong demonstration of what we want for humanity and the compassion that this debate requires. Therefore, on the side of the Left Block, we believe it is worth repeating what is on the table, so that there is no doubt or any anathemas and that we are not having a debate, not by means of real information, but by falsehoods that are sometimes wanted to rise. And what is above the table is summed up in a very simple way: the proposals exclude the criminalization of assisted death only one specific condition, that of the repeated request of an older person, lucid and conscious, who suffers from a definitive injury or an incurable and fatal disease and who is in continued suffering. All — I repeat, all! — these conditions are attested by medical professionals and, no less important, the decision to take the procedure of anticipation of death to the end is exclusive and unique of the patient and revocable at all times. This is what's on the table. So, to finish my speech, I will quote again Ramón Sampedro, because his words show that those who live in this circumstance have immense wisdom. He said: "The right to be born part of truth—the desire for pleasure. The right to die part of another truth—the desire not to suffer. Ethics puts good and evil into each act. A child conceived against the will of a woman is a crime, a death against the will of a person too. But a child desired and conceived by love is obviously a good; a desired death, to free himself from irreparable pain, too. There is no freedom that can be built upon a tyranny, nor any justice about injustice or pain, nor any universal good about an unjust suffering, no love about an obligation, no humanism about a cruelty, whether it is the living being that suffers from it. Do not keep on seeking. ” I believe that these words demonstrate humanity and compassion with which we should answer today's question. And the question is: what we tell that person who looks at us and says "please help me! "? And what hand do we want to give him? Is it the one who imposes our will or the one who respects his most fundamental right? Today, our answer must be given with humanity, compassion and respect for those who say « let me go». [[Congratulations from BE, PAN and PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u192	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of the debate on these bills. of the second item on the agenda, without time, is draft Deliberation No. 7 / XIV / 1. a ( PAR) — Sets out the composition, distribution and list of parliamentary friendship groups in the XIV Legislation. Let us therefore move on to the voting period. First of all, we will check the quorum, so I ask the services that prepare the electronic system so that we can register. I'm asking the ladies. Members who cannot register electronically, who signal to the Bureau that they are present. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u193	They informed the Bureau that they had not been able to register themselves. Members Hugo Oliveira, PSD, Beatriz Gomes Dias, BE, Telmo Correia, CDS-PP, and Antonio Maló de Abreu, PSD. There are, therefore, 220 Members present, and we are therefore in a position to proceed to the vote. At the end of the vote, anyone who has not been able to sign up and I would like to ask you to report to the plenary support services. Mrs. Members, let's start with the Vote Project No. 183 / XIV / 1. a ( presented by CH ) — Regret for the death of the actor and stager Toze Martinho, who will be read by the Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u194	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the vote for the death of the actor and the stager Toze Martinho is of the following content: « It was with great regret that the Assembly of the Republic received the news of the premature death of Antonio José Bastos de Oliveira Martinho, best known by Toze Martinho. The tragic information came as a surprise and struck all those who, over the decades, accompanied their work. Major name of television scripting in Portugal, Toze Martinho wrote three of the four most visible Portuguese telenovelas ever seen, also participating in so many other productions. The actor and screenwriter marked an era in the production of fictitious content in Portugal and, as he himself admitted, decided to do so to deal with Brazilian soap operas that dominated the Portuguese market, having achieved its mission with tremendous success. Toze Martinho died on February 16, at 72 years of age, but his work will remain alive forever in the Portuguese imagination. The incredible imagination, the tenacity and the delivery with which he has developed all his projects deserve a sense of consecration of the importance of his career for culture in Portugal. Meeting in plenary, the Assembly of the Republic pays tribute to Toze Martinho's memory, addressing his sense of sorrow to family and friends. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u195	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We moved on to the Vote Project No 186 / XIV / 1. a ( submitted by the PSD and the CDS-PP ) — Unfortunately for the death of Antonio José Bastos de Oliveira Martinho, who will be read by Secretary Helga Correia.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u196	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « With a recognized career as an actor and argumentist, Antonio José Bastos de Oliveira Martinho, known as Toze Martinho, died last February 16th, at 72 years of age. Son of actress Maria Teresa Bastos Gonçalves Sarmento Ramalho and doctor Antonio Martinho and brother of writer Ana Maria Magalhães, of Theresa Ameal, of Helena Rocha and Mello and Manuel Maria Martinho, was married to Ana Rita Louro Martinho. Pioneer in the Portuguese novel industry, he was one of the most successful argumentists in Portuguese fiction. Responsible for the launch of the career of dozens of new actors, Toze Martinho is primarily remembered for his inexhaustible generosity and character. His connection to Ribatejo and his traditions was known and divided his time between the municipalities of Salvaterra de Magos and Benavente, where he became an author elected by the PSD. He was a practicing Tauromachic knight, attended the courses of Veterinary Medicine, Economics and Law, coming to law. In 1977, his professional life changed when he took part in the program The Visit of Cornélia. In 1982, he debuted as an actor in Vila Faia. Roseira Brava was her first experience as an argumentist. Toze Martinho owes itself some of the most popular novels in our country, such as Salt Lives, The Great Bet, All the Time of the World, Water Eyes, Morning, Dei -te Almost Everything and the Other. He participated in national and foreign films, such as La Guerillera, Le Cercle des Passions, Tricheurs and Compulsory by Corps. This way, he participated in Sin Shadow, José Fonseca and Costa. His last TV participation took place in 2018 in the Sara series. He was also a professor at the University of Moderna, responsible for the Atlantic Studies and Director of RTP-USA programs. He published a book of stories Money Things and romance Just Give me a Kiss. at this moment of loss and mourning for Portugal, the Assembly of the Republic expresses its deepest regret at the death of Toze Martinho, lends a deserved tribute to his memory and addresses the family and friends the most felt condolences. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u197	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, ENP, CH, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and NAP abstentions.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, you are present at the family galleries of Toze Martinho, to whom I wish to extend my condolences. Let's keep a minute of silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] Mrs. Members, let us vote vote No 171 / XIV / 1. a ( submitted by BE ) — Of condemnation and concern for human rights abuses in Kashmir and Jammu. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the CDS-PP were rejected in favour of BE, the CFP, the PAN, the ENP, the IL and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the PSD and the CH.]] Mr António Maló de Abreu asked for the floor. To what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u198	Mr President, it is to inform the Bureau that the PSD will make a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u199	Be registered. Mrs. Members, let us now vote vote No 180 / XIV / 1. a ( submitted by the PSD ) — Congratulations on the recovery of bells and rails from the National Palace of Mafra. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We will generally vote for Bill No. 99 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Fourth amendment to Law No 2 / 2008 of 14 January ( regulates admission to magistrates, training of judges and the nature, structure and functioning of the Centre for Judicial Studies ), providing compulsory training for judges on the Convention on the Rights of the Child. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PSD, CDS-PP, PAN, CH, IL and Non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira and Abstaining from BE, PCP and ENP.]] We will generally vote for Bill No 175 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Creates an observatory in the National Commission for the Promotion of the Rights and Protection of Children and Youth to monitor compliance with the obligations imposed by the Convention on the Rights of the Child ( Second Amendment to Decree-Law No 159 / 2015 of 10 August 2015. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD and the CH were rejected and abstentions against the PS, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, ENP, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u200	Mr President, I would like to inform the Bureau that I will make a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u201	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We will vote for draft resolution No 88 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government entrust the Ombudsman with the task of coordinating and monitoring the implementation of the Convention on the Rights of the Child in Portugal. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the ENP were rejected, votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP, the CH and the IL and abstentions against the NAP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We will vote for draft resolution No 204 / XIV / 1. a (BE) - Recommends the establishment of a National Committee on the Rights of the Child, in compliance with the recommendations of the United Nations Committee on the Rights of the Children and the Convention on the Rights of the Child. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and CH were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP and the ENP, and abstentions against the CDS-PP, the PAN, the IL and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u202	Mr President, I would like to inform the Bureau that I will make a statement of vote on the vote that has just taken place.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u203	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr. João Paulo Correia also asked for the floor. Is it for what purpose, Member of the Commission?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u204	Mr President, it is to inform that the PS will present a statement of vote on the last four votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u205	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 148 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Establishs the timetable for the specific institution of the administrative regions during the year 2021. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the CDS-PP, the CH and the IL were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP, the ENP and the Member of Parliament registered Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the PSD and the PAN.]] Let's vote for Resolution Project No 220 / XIV / 1. a (BE)...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u206	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u207	Is it for what purpose, Member of the Commission?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u208	Mr President, it is to inform me that I will present a statement of vote on the last vote and on the next one too.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u209	Mr President, we still do not know how the next vote will take place, but it is recorded. [[Laughing.]] Let us then vote on draft resolution No 220 / XIV / 1. a (BE) — Preparation of procedures for the establishment of administrative regions. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the CDS-PP and the CH were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the PSD, the PAN and the IL.]] Mr André Silva asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u210	Mr President, it is to announce that we are going to make a statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u211	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr Pedro do Carmo also asked for the floor. It's for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u212	Mr President, that is to say, for the last two votes, I will present a statement of vote on my behalf on behalf of the PS Members elected by the electoral circles of Évora, Beja and Portalegre and on behalf of Members Clarisse Campos and Sofia Araújo. [[CH and PSD Member Protests Duarte Marques.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u213	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u214	Now you can blow your boots!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u215	Mr Ascenso Simões also asked for the floor. Is it for what purpose, Member of the Commission?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u216	Mr. President, it is in the same sense.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u217	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr. Luís Graça asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u218	Mr President, it is to announce, on my behalf and on behalf of Members Joaquina Matos, Ana Passos, Célia Pais and Francisco Oliveira, that we will deliver a statement of vote on the last two votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u219	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr. Luís Soares asked for the floor. It is for this purpose, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u220	Mr President, it is for the same purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u221	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro also asked for the floor. It is for this purpose, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u222	Mr President, that is to say that I will present a statement of vote on the last two drafts.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u223	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u224	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u225	Is it for what purpose, Your Honor?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u226	Mr President, that is to say that I will also present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u227	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mr Francisco Rocha of the PS, who is in the last row, asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u228	Mr President, it is for the same purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u229	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs Ana Catarina Mendes asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u230	Mr President, it is only to say that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will deliver a statement of vote on these diplomas. [[Ah!...]] [[Ah!...]] [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u231	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. However, some of them. PS Members keep their hands up. Mr José Rui Cruz asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u232	Mr President, it is for the same purpose, on my behalf and on behalf of the honourable Members. Members of PS Jorge Gomes, José Manuel Carpinteira and João Azevedo.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u233	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs Carla Sousa also asked for the floor. Please say, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u234	Mr President, I shall present a statement of vote on the vote on the last two draft resolutions.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u235	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mr. Pedro Bacelar of Vasconcelos asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u236	Mr President, for the same purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u237	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. [[CH and PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u238	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u239	Is it for what purpose, Member of the Commission?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u240	Mr President, it is also for the same purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u241	Be registered, Mr. President. Mr Ventura of the CH also asked for the floor. Is it for what purpose, Member of the Commission?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u242	Mr President, since my statement of vote is not part of the Socialist Party, I will also make a separate statement of vote!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u243	When we are many it is so!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u244	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 18 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government, when exceeding the maximum response time guaranteed for first consultation in the National Health Service, ensure users the freedom to access such consultation at any other hospital to their choice, whether from the public, private or social sector. [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and votes in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP, the CH and the IL.]] Mr André Silva asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u245	Mr President, it is to inform us that we are going to deliver a statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u246	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs. Members, as agreed at the Conference of Leaders, will generally proceed to the joint roll-call vote of Bill Nos 4 / XIV / 1. a (BE) — defines and regulates the conditions in which the anticipation of death, by decision of the person himself with definitive injury or incurable and fatal disease and who is in lasting and unbearable suffering, is not punishable, 67 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Regulates Access to Assisted Medicine Death, 104 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Proceeds to 50. the amendment to the Penal Code, regulating the special conditions for the practice of non-punishable euthanasia, 168 / XIV / 1. a (PEV) — Defines the regime and conditions under which assisted drug death is not punishable and 195 / XIV / 1. a (IL) — regulates the anticipation of the end of life, in a dignified, conscious manner and assisted medicine. Ladies and gentlemen. Members will be called individually, in alphabetical order, and will have to say which projects they vote for, the projects they abstain in and the projects they vote against. That is to say, we will not vote for each project. There will certainly be many of you. Members who will vote 'no' or 'yes' to all the projects, but all will have the right to say that they vote in favour of them, that they abstain in others and that they vote against others. This is what the Bureau should do, as a matter of fact. So let's start calling the ladies and gentlemen. Members for this vote in general. I'm asking the Secretaries to help me, and I'm asking all of you. Ladies and gentlemen who are quick in the answers. Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha will start the call. Please, Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u247	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I will proceed with the call. Mr Adam Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u248	I vote in favour of the Socialist Party bill and abstain from the others.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u249	All right.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u250	Mr Afonso Oliveira.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u251	I vote against the five projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u252	All right.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u253	Mr. Alberto Fonseca.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u254	Mr President, I vote against the five projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u255	Mr. Deputy, Alberto Machado.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u256	Mr President, I vote against the five projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u257	All right.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u258	Mrs Alexandra Tavares de Moura.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u259	Mr President, I am voting in favour of the five projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u260	All right.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u261	Mrs Alexandra Vieira.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u262	Mr President, I am voting in favour of the five projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u263	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u264	Mr Alexandre Poço.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u265	Mr President, I vote against the five projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u266	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u267	Mr Alexandre Quintanilla.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u268	Mr President, I am voting in favour of the five projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u269	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u270	Mrs Alma Rivera.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u271	Mr President, I vote against the five projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u272	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u273	Mr. Álvaro Almeida.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u274	Mr President, I vote against the five projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u275	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u276	Mrs Ana Catarina Mendonça Mendes.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u277	I vote in favour of all projects, with the exception of the project of the Liberal Initiative, in which I abstain.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u278	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u279	Mrs Ana Maria Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u280	Mr President, I am voting in favour of the five projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u281	Mrs Ana Mesquita.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u282	Mr President, I vote against the five projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u283	Mrs Ana Miguel dos Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u284	Mr President, I abstain from the five projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u285	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u286	Mrs Ana Passos.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u287	Mr President, I vote in favour of the five projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u288	Mrs Ana Paula Vitorino.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u289	Mr President, I vote in favour of the PS and BE projects, I abstain in the vote on the NAP and ENP projects and vote against the IL project.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u290	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u291	Mrs Ana Rita Bessa.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u292	Mr President, I vote against the five projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u293	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u294	Mrs Anabela Rodrigues.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u295	I vote in favour of the five projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u296	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u297	Mr. André Coelho Lima.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u298	I vote in favour of the five projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u299	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u300	Mr. André Neves.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u301	Mr President, I vote against the five projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u302	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u303	Mr André Pinotes Batista.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u304	Mr President, I am voting in favour of the drafts of BE, the NAP, the PS and the ENP, and abstaining from the Liberal Initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u305	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u306	Mr André Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u307	Mr President, I am voting in favour of all the projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u308	All right.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u309	Mr André Ventura.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u310	Mr President, I am voting against all the projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u311	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u312	Mr. António Cunha.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u313	Mr President, I vote against the five projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u314	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u315	Mr. Antonio Filipe.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u316	Mr President, I vote against the five projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u317	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u318	Mr. António Gameiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u319	Mr President, I am voting in favour of the five projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u320	Mr. António Lima Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u321	I vote against all the projects, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u322	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u323	Mr. António Maló de Abreu.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u324	Mr President, I vote in favour of the five projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u325	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u326	Mr. António Topa.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u327	Mr President, I am voting against the five projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u328	The 'convictly' was indispensable. Thank you very much. [[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u329	Mr. Antonio Ventura.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u330	Mr President, I vote against the five projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u331	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u332	Mr. Artur Sovereign Andrade.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u333	Mr President, I vote against the five projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u334	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u335	Mr. Ascenso Simões.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u336	Mr President, I am voting against all the projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u337	All right, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u338	Mr. Bacaler de Vasconcelos.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u339	Mr President, I vote in favour of the five projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u340	Mrs Beatriz Gomes Dias.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u341	Mr President, I vote in favour of the five projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u342	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u343	Mrs Bebiana Cunha.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u344	Mr President, I am voting in favour of all the projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u345	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u346	Mr Bruno Aragão.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u347	Mr President, I am voting in favour of the five projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u348	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u349	Mr Bruno Coimbra.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u350	Mr President, I vote against the five projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u351	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u352	Mr Bruno Dias.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u353	Mr President, I vote against the five projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u354	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u355	Mrs Carla Barros.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u356	Mr President, I vote against the five projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u357	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u358	Mrs Carla Borges.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u359	Mr President, I vote against the five projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u360	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u361	Mrs Carla Madureira.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u362	Mr President, I vote against the five projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u363	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u364	Mrs Carla Sousa.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u365	Mr President, I vote in favour of the five projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u366	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u367	Mr. Carlos Alberto Gonçalves.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u368	Mr President, I vote against the five projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u369	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u370	Mr. Carlos Brás.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u371	Mr President, I vote in favour of the first three and abstain from the rest.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u372	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u373	Mr. Carlos Eduardo Reis.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u374	Mr President, I vote against the five projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u375	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u376	Mr. Carlos Peixoto.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u377	Mr President, I am voting against all the projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u378	All right.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u379	Mr. Carlos Pereira.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u380	It's not present.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u381	Mr. Carlos Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u382	Mr President, I am voting against all the projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u383	All right.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u384	Mrs Catarina Marcelino.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u385	Mr President, I am voting in favour of all the projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u386	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u387	Mrs Catarina Martins.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u388	Mr President, I am voting in favour of all the projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u389	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u390	Mrs Catarina Rocha Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u391	Mr President, I vote in favour of the five projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u392	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u393	Mrs Cecilia Meireles.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u394	Mr President, I vote against the five projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u395	All right.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u396	Mrs Célia Paz.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u397	Mr President, I am voting against all the projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u398	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u399	Mrs Clara Marques Mendes.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u400	Mr President, I am voting against all the projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u401	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u402	Mrs Clarisse Campos.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u403	Mr President, I am voting in favour of all the projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u404	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u405	Mrs Cláudia André.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u406	Mr President, I am voting against all the projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u407	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u408	Mrs Cláudia Bento.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u409	Mr President, I am voting against all the projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u410	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u411	Mrs Cláudia Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u412	Mr President, I am voting in favour of all the projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u413	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u414	Mrs Constance Urbano de Sousa.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u415	Mr President, I am voting in favour of all the projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u416	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u417	Mrs. Cristina de Jesus.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u418	Mr President, I am voting in favour of all the projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u419	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u420	Mrs. Mrs. Cristina Moreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u421	Mr President, I vote in favour of the five projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u422	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u423	Mrs. Cristina Rodrigues.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u424	Mr President, I vote in favour of the five projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u425	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u426	Mrs Cristina Sousa.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u427	Mr President, I am voting against all the projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u428	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u429	Mr Cristovão Norte.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u430	Mr President, I am voting in favour of the drafts of the Block on the Left and the Liberal Initiative and abstain from the others.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u431	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u432	Mrs Diana Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u433	Mr President, I vote against the five projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u434	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u435	Mr. Diogo León.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u436	Mr President, I vote in favour of the five projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u437	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u438	Mr Duarte Alves.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u439	Mr President, I am voting against all the projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u440	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u441	Mr Duarte Marques.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u442	Mr President, I vote in favour of the NAP projects, the Liberal Initiative and the Left Block and vote against the other two projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u443	All right, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u444	Mr Duarte Pacheco. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u445	It's not present.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u446	Mrs Edite Estrela.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u447	Mr President, I vote in favour of the five projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u448	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u449	Mr. Eduardo Barroco de Melo.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u450	Mr President, I vote in favour of the five projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u451	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u452	Mr. Eduardo Ferro Rodrigues.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u453	I vote in favour of the five projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u454	Mr. Eduardo Teixeira.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u455	Mr President, I am voting against all the projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u456	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u457	Mrs. Elza Pais.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u458	Mr President, I am voting in favour of all the projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u459	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u460	Mr. Emídio Guerreiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u461	Mr President, I am voting against all the projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u462	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u463	Mrs Emília Cerqueira. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u464	It's not present.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u465	Mrs Eurídice Pereira.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u466	Mr President, I am voting in favour of all the projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u467	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u468	Mrs. Fabíola Cardoso.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u469	Mr President, I vote in favour of the five projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u470	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u471	Mrs Fernanda Velez.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u472	Mr President, I vote against the five projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u473	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u474	Mr Fernando Anastácio.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u475	Mr President, I vote in favour of the five projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u476	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u477	Mr Fernando José.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u478	Mr President, I vote in favour of the five projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u479	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u480	Mr Fernando Negrão.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u481	Mr President, my vote is against the five projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u482	Thank you very much, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u483	Mr Fernando Paulo Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u484	Mr President, I abstain from the draft law submitted by the ENP and vote in favour of all other drafts.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u485	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u486	Mr Fernando Ruas.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u487	Mr President, I am voting against all the projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u488	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u489	Mrs. Filipa Roseta.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u490	Mr President, I am voting against all the projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u491	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u492	Mr. Filipe Neto Brandão.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u493	Mr President, I vote in favour of the five projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u494	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u495	Mr. Filipe Pacheco.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u496	Mr President, I vote in favour of the five projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u497	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u498	Mr. Firmino Marques.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u499	Mr President, I want to say that I vote against all five projects. If you'll excuse me, I'll introduce...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u500	No, it's not allowed. Thank you very much, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u501	Mr. Francisco Pereira Oliveira.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u502	Mr President, I vote in favour of the five projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u503	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u504	Mr. Francisco Rocha.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u505	Mr President, I vote in favour of the five projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u506	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u507	Mrs Helga Correia.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u508	Mr President, I vote against the five projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u509	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u510	Mrs Hortense Martins.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u511	Mr President, I vote in favour of the PS, the Left Block and the PAN projects and abstain from the ENP and the Liberal Initiative projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u512	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u513	Mr. Hugo Carneiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u514	Mr President, I am voting against all the projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u515	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u516	Mr. Hugo Carvalho.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u517	Mr President, I vote in favour of the five projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u518	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u519	Mr. Hugo Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u520	Mr President, I vote in favour of the five projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u521	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u522	Mr Hugo Martins de Carvalho.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u523	Mr President, I vote in favour of the five projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u524	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u525	Mr Hugo Oliveira.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u526	Mr President, I vote in favour of the five projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u527	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u528	Mr Hugo Patrício Oliveira.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u529	Mr President, I vote against the five projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u530	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u531	Mr Hugo Pires.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u532	Mr President, I vote in favour of the five projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u533	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u534	Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u535	Mr President, I vote in favour of the five projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u536	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u537	Mrs. Isabel Alves Moreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u538	Mr President, I vote in favour of the five projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u539	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u540	Mrs. Isabel Lopes.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u541	Mr President, I vote against the five projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u542	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u543	Mrs. Isabel Meireles.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u544	Mr President, I vote in favour of the five projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u545	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u546	Mrs Isabel Oneto.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u547	Mr President, I vote in favour of the five bills.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u548	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u549	Mrs Isabel Pires.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u550	Mr President, I vote in favour of the five projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u551	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u552	Mrs. Isabel Rodrigues.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u553	Mr President, I voted in favour of the PS project and abstained from the others.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u554	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u555	Mrs. Isura Morais.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u556	Mr President, I vote against the five projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u557	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u558	Mr. Jerónimo de Sousa.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u559	Mr President, I am voting against all the projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u560	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u561	Mrs Joacine Katar Moreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u562	Mr President, I vote in favour of the five projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u563	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u564	Mrs. Joana Bento.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u565	Mr President, I vote in favour of the five projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u566	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u567	Mrs. Joana Lima.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u568	Mr President, I vote in favour of the five projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u569	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u570	Mrs. Joana Mortagua.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u571	Mr President, I vote in favour of the five projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u572	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u573	Mrs. Joana Sá Pereira.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u574	Mr President, I vote in favour of the five projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u575	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u576	Mr. João Ataíde.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u577	Mr President, I declare my abstention from the five projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u578	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u579	Mr. João Azevedo.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u580	Mr President, I abstain from the five projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u581	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u582	Mr. João Azevedo Castro.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u583	Mr President, I support the five initiatives.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u584	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u585	Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u586	Mr President, I vote in favour of the draft Liberal Initiative and vote against the remaining projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u587	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u588	Mr. João Dias.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u589	Mr President, I vote against the five projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u590	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u591	Mr. João Gomes Marques.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u592	Mr President, I vote against the five projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u593	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u594	Mr. João Gonçalves Pereira.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u595	Mr President, I am voting against all the projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u596	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u597	Mr. João Gouveia.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u598	Mr President, I vote in favour of the five projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u599	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u600	Mr. João Miguel Nicolau.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u601	Mr President, I vote in favour of the five projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u602	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u603	Mr. João Moura.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u604	Mr President, I vote against the five projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u605	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u606	Mr. João Oliveira.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u607	Mr President, I vote against the five projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u608	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u609	Mr. João Paulo Correia.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u610	Mr President, I vote in favour of the PS, the Left Block and the PAN projects and abstain from the ENP and the Liberal Initiative projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u611	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u612	Mr. João Paulo Pedrosa.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u613	Mr President, I am voting in favour of all the projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u614	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u615	Mr João Piinho de Almeida.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u616	Mr President, I am voting against all the projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u617	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u618	Mr. João Vasconcelos.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u619	Mr President, I vote in favour of all five projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u620	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u621	Mr Joaquim Barreto.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u622	Mr President, I abstain from all projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u623	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u624	Mr. Jorge Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u625	Mr President, I vote in favour of the five projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u626	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u627	Mr Jorge Gomes.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u628	Mr President, I vote in favour of the drafts of the Left Block, the PAN and the PS, and vote in the drafts of the ENP and the Liberal Initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u629	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u630	Mr. Jorge Lacão.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u631	Mr President, I vote in favour of the five projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u632	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u633	Mr. Jorge Paulo Oliveira.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u634	Mr President, I am voting against all the projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u635	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u636	Mr. Jorge Salgueiro Mendes.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u637	Mr President, I am voting against all the projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u638	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u639	Mr. José Cancela Moura.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u640	Mr President, I am voting against all the projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u641	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u642	Mr José Cesario.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u643	Mr President, I am voting against all the projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u644	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u645	Mr. José Luís Carneiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u646	Mr President, I vote against the five projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u647	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u648	Mr. José Luís Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u649	Mr President, I abstain in the draft of the Liberal Initiative and vote in favour of the remaining projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u650	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u651	Mr. José Magalhães.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u652	Mr President, I vote in favour of the five projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u653	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u654	Mr. José Manuel Carpinteira.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u655	Mr President, I vote in favour of the PS, the Left Block and the PAN projects and abstain from the ENP and the Liberal Initiative projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u656	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u657	Mr. José Manuel Pureza.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u658	Mr President, I vote in favour of the five projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u659	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u660	Mr. José Maria Cardoso.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u661	Mr President, I vote in favour of the five projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u662	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u663	Mr. José Moura Soeiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u664	Mr President, I vote in favour of the five projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u665	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u666	Mr. José Rui Cruz.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u667	Mr President, I vote in favour of the five projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u668	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u669	Mr. José Silvano.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u670	Mr President, I am voting against all the projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u671	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u672	Mrs. Lara Martinho.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u673	Mr President, I voted in favour of the Socialist Party project and abstained from the remaining projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u674	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u675	Mrs Lina Lopes.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u676	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u677	Mr President, I vote in favour of the five projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u678	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u679	Mrs. Mrs. Lucia Araújo Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u680	It's not present.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u681	Mr. Luís Capoulas Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u682	Mr President, I vote in favour of all the projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u683	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u684	Mr. Luís Graça.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u685	Mr President, I am voting in favour of all the projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u686	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u687	Mr. Luís Leite Ramos.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u688	Mr President, I am voting against all the projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u689	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u690	Mr. Luís Marques Guedes.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u691	Mr President, I am voting against all the projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u692	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u693	Mr. Luís Monteiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u694	Mr President, I am voting in favour of all the projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u695	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u696	Mr. Luís Moreira Testa.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u697	Mr President, I am voting in favour of all the projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u698	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u699	Mr. Luís Soares.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u700	Mr President, I am voting in favour of all the projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u701	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u702	Mr Manuel dos Santos Afonso.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u703	Mr President, I am voting in favour of all the projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u704	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u705	Mrs Mara Rabbit.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u706	Mr President, I am voting in favour of all the projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u707	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u708	Mrs Marcia Passos.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u709	Mr President, I am voting against all the projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u710	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u711	Mr. Marcos Perestrello.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u712	Mr President, I am voting in favour of all the projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u713	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u714	Mrs Margarida Balsairo Lopes is not present. Mrs Maria Antónia de Almeida Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u715	Mr President, I am voting in favour of all the projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u716	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u717	Mrs Maria Begonha.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u718	Mr President, I am voting in favour of all the projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u719	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u720	Mrs Maria da Graça Reis.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u721	Mr President, I am voting against all the projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u722	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u723	Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u724	Mr President, I am voting in favour of all the projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u725	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u726	Mrs. Maria Gabriela Fonseca.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u727	Mr President, I am voting against all the projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u728	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u729	Mrs Maria Germana Rocha.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u730	Mr President, I am voting against all the projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u731	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u732	Mrs Maria Joaquina Matos.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u733	Mr President, I am voting in favour of all the projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u734	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u735	Mrs Maria Manuel Rola.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u736	Mr President, I am voting in favour of all the projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u737	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u738	Mrs Mariana Mortágua.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u739	Mr President, I am voting in favour of all the projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u740	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u741	Mrs Mariana Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u742	Mr President, I abstain from the draft of the Liberal Initiative and vote in favour of the others.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u743	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u744	Mrs Marina Gonçalves.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u745	Mr President, I am voting in favour of the five initiatives.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u746	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u747	Mrs. Marta Freitas.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u748	Mr President, I abstain from all projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u749	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u750	Mr. Miguel Matos.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u751	Mr President, I vote in favour of the five projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u752	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u753	Mr. Moisés Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u754	Mr President, I am voting in favour of all the projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u755	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u756	Mrs Monica Quintela is not present. Mr. Nelson Peralta.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u757	Mr President, I vote in favour of the five projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u758	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u759	Mr Norberto Patinho.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u760	Mr President, I vote in favour of the five projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u761	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u762	Mr Nuno Fazenda.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u763	Mr President, I abstain from all projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u764	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u765	Mr Nuno Miguel Carvalho.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u766	Mr President, I vote against the five projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u767	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u768	Mr Nuno Sá.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u769	Mr President, I am voting in favour of all the projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u770	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u771	Mrs. Mrs. Ofélia Ramos.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u772	Mr President, I am voting against all the projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u773	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u774	Mr. Olavo Câmara.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u775	Mr President, I am voting in favour of all the projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u776	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u777	Mrs Olga Silvestre.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u778	Mr President, I am voting against all the projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u779	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u780	Mrs Palmira Maciel.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u781	Mr President, I am voting in favour of all the projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u782	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u783	Mrs Paula Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u784	Mr President, I am voting against all the projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u785	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u786	Mr. Paulo Leitão.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u787	Mr President, I am voting against all the projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u788	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u789	Mr. Paulo Marques.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u790	Mr President, I am voting in favour of all the projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u791	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u792	Mr. Paulo Moniz.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u793	Mr President, I am voting against all the projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u794	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u795	Mr. Paulo Neves.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u796	I vote against all the projects, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u797	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u798	Mr. Paulo Pisco.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u799	Mr President, I am voting in favour of the five projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u800	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u801	Mr. Paulo Porto.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u802	Mr President, I abstain from the five projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u803	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u804	Mr. Paulo Rios de Oliveira.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u805	Mr President, I am voting against all the projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u806	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u807	Mr. Pedro Alves.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u808	Mr President, I am voting against all the projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u809	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u810	Mr. Pedro Cegonho.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u811	Mr President, I am voting against all the projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u812	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u813	Mr. Pedro Coimbra.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u814	Mr President, I vote in favour of the five projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u815	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u816	Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u817	Mr President, I am voting in favour of the five bills.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u818	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u819	Mr. Pedro do Carmo.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u820	Mr President, I voted in favour of the PS bill, voted against the PAN bill and abstained from the rest.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u821	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u822	Mr. Pedro Filipe Soares.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u823	Mr President, I am voting in favour of the five initiatives.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u824	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u825	Mr. Pedro Pinto.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u826	Mr President, I abstain from all projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u827	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u828	The gentlemen. Members Pedro Rodrigues and Pedro Roque are not present. Mr. Pedro Sousa.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u829	Mr President, I abstained on the five projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u830	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u831	Mr Porfirio Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u832	Mr President, I vote in favour of the five projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u833	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u834	Mr. Raul Miguel Castro.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u835	Mr President, I vote against the five projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u836	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u837	Mr. Ricardo Baptista Leite.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u838	Mr President, I vote against the five projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u839	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u840	Mr. Ricardo Leon.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u841	Mr President, I vote in favour of the five projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u842	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u843	Mr. Ricardo Pinheiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u844	Mr President, I am voting in favour of the Socialist Party project and abstaining from the other four.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u845	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u846	Mr. Ricardo Vicente.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u847	Mr President, I am voting in favour of the five projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u848	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u849	Mrs Rita Borges Madeira.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u850	I vote in favour of the five projects, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u851	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u852	Mrs Romualda Fernandes.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u853	Mr President, I vote against the five projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u854	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u855	Mrs Rosário Gambôa.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u856	Mr President, I vote in favour of the five projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u857	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u858	Mr Rui Cristina.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u859	Mr President, I vote against the five projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u860	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u861	Mr Rui Rio.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u862	Mr President, I vote in favour of the five projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u863	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u864	Mr Rui Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u865	Mr President, I voted in favour of the Socialist Party and the Left Block projects and abstained from the others.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u866	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u867	Mrs Sandra Cunha.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u868	Mr President, I vote in favour of the five projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u869	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u870	Mrs Sandra Pereira.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u871	Mr President, I vote against the five projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u872	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u873	Mr. Santinho Pacheco.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u874	Mr President, I vote in favour of the five projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u875	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u876	Mrs Sara Madruga from Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u877	Mr President, I am voting against all the projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u878	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u879	Mrs Sara Velez.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u880	Mr President, I vote in favour of the five projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u881	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u882	Mr. Sérgio Marques.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u883	I vote against the five projects, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u884	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u885	Mr. Sérgio Sousa Pinto.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u886	Mr President, I vote in favour of the five projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u887	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u888	Mrs Sofia Araújo.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u889	Mr President, I vote in favour of the five projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u890	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u891	Mrs. Sofia Matos.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u892	Mr President, I am voting in favour of all the projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u893	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u894	Mrs. Mrs. Sonia Fertuzinhos.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u895	Mr President, I am voting in favour of all the projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u896	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u897	Mrs Susana Correia.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u898	Mr President, I vote in favour of the five projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u899	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u900	Mrs Telma Guerreiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u901	Mr President, I am voting in favour of all the projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u902	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u903	Mr Telmo Correia.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u904	I vote against the five projects, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u905	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u906	Mr. Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u907	Mr President, I am voting in favour of all the projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u908	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u909	Mr Tiago Estevão Martins.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u910	Mr President, I am voting in favour of all the projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u911	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u912	Mrs Vera Braz.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u913	Mr President, I vote in favour of the five projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u914	Thank you very much. We have thus reached the end of the vote. All five projects were approved and are therefore brought down to the competent Commission. Let's continue with the votes... [[Pause.]] Many of you. Ladies and gentlemen are asking for the floor. I suppose it is to announce the presentation of a declaration of vote in the context of the votes that we have just held. I am grateful that you presented it but that we do not waste much time on it today. They do not need to announce the presentation of a declaration of vote, which is necessary to present it. Mr. Ascenso Simões asked for the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u915	Yes, Mr. President. Under the Rules of Procedure, it is only to say that I will make a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u916	Thank you very much. I'm asking the ladies. Members of the PSD who wish to announce the presentation of a declaration of vote who remain standing to be identified. Mrs Cláudia André.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u917	Mr President, I shall present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u918	All right. Mrs Alexandre Poço.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u919	Mr President, that is to say that I am going to make a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u920	All right. Mrs Carla Barros.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u921	Mr President, it is to inform that I will also present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u922	All right. Mrs Sandra Pereira.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u923	Mr President, it is for the same purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u924	Thank you very much. Mrs. Filipa Roseta.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u925	Mr President, I shall present a declaration of vote on behalf of the individual.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u926	Thank you very much. Mr. Hugo Carneiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u927	Mr President, I shall present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u928	Thank you very much. Mrs Lina Lopes.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u929	Mr President, I shall present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u930	All right. Mrs Ana Miguel.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u931	Mr President, I shall present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u932	All right. Mr. Paulo Leitão.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u933	Mr President, it is to announce that I will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u934	All right. Mr. António Maló de Abreu.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u935	Mr President, it is to inform me that I will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u936	Thank you very much. Mr. Firmino Marques.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u937	Mr President, I confirm the presentation of a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u938	Thank you very much. Mr Pedro Sousa of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u939	Mr President, it is to inform the Bureau that, on my behalf and on behalf of Members Marta Freitas, Nuno Fazenda, João Ataíde, João Azevedo, Paulo Porto and Joaquim Barreto, we will present a statement of vote on the last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u940	Be registered. With no further requests for a word, we shall proceed with the vote. We will vote for the Draft of Deliberation No 7 / XIV / 1. a ( PAR) — Sets out the composition, distribution and list of the Parliamentary Groups of Friendship in the XIV Legislation. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PS, the PSD, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the ENP, the IL and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira and the Abstaining of BE, the NAP and the CH.]] The vote was followed by draft resolution No 241 / XIV / 1. a (BE) — Recommends that the Government public consultation of the action programmes of the national integrated rural fire management plan. The PS requested a joint vote on points 1 to 4 and then the vote on point 5. Let us start by voting points 1 to 4. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, BE, CDS-PP, PAN, CH and other non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and PCP, ENP and IL.]] We now vote on point 5. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN, CH and Member of Parliament not included Joacine Katar Moreira and with abstentions from PS, PCP, ENP and IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u941	Mr. President, will you excuse me from speaking?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u942	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u943	Mr President, I apologize for the impertinence, but it is to announce that I will present a statement of vote on the last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u944	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We also have to vote on two opinions of the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members. I ask Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha to give an account of the first opinion.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u945	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the request of the Court of Justice of the Comarca do Porto, Local Criminal Court of Gondomar — Judge 2, Case No 472 / 13.3TAGDM, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Deputies decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mr Carlos Brás ( PS ) to intervene within the framework of those cars.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u946	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha, I would like to take note of the second opinion.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u947	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the request of the Court of Justice of the Comarca de Lisboa, Juiz de Instruction Criminal de Lisboa — Juiz 3, Case No 2873 / 19.4T9LSB, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Deputies decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mr Carlos Peixoto ( PSD ) to intervene within the framework of those cases.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-20.u948	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, the next plenary session will be on Wednesday, 26 February, at 3 p.m. and the next item is the following: firstly, current debate, required by the ENP, on the construction of Montijo airport; secondly, political declarations; and thirdly, assessment of Petition No 562 / XIII / 4. a ( Paulo Martins de Almeida et al.) — By the urgent re-qualification of national road No 125, together with Resolution Projects No 72 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends that the Government undertake urgent reclassification of national road No 225, 133 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — By urgent re-qualification of national road No 225, 121 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends to the Government the rehabilitation of EN225, 236 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recommends to the Government the urgent re-qualification of national road Nos 225 and 60 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government enforce the obligations of the State and its agencies by ensuring a safe movement of the local population and of all who use EN225. So we have come to the end of our work. I appreciate everyone's cooperation. The session is closed. [[It was 18 hours and 45 minutes.]]
