ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists. Let's start our session. [[It was 15 hours and 34 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority who open the gates of the galleries, please. Obviously, as in all sessions, there is a record to be disclosed. I ask the Secretary of the Bureau, Maria da Luz Rosinha, to disclose this same file.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u2	Good afternoon, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. I begin by announcing the opinion of the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members concerning the request for the suspension of the mandate of the Member of the Left Block, elected by the electoral circle of Leiria, Ricardo Vicente, and their replacement by Manuel António Azenha Santos Pereira, from 21 July 2020 to 24 August 2020, including. The Commission has delivered an opinion on this replacement meeting the legal requirements.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u3	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us then vote on this opinion. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the CH and the IL was recorded.]] You may continue, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u4	Mr President, I am now announcing the results of the electoral acts that took place on 10 July 2020. With regard to the election of votes to the Supreme Council of the Magistracy, list A collected the following result, in a universe of 228 voters : 158 votes 'yes', 59 white votes and 11 zero votes. in these terms, they consider themselves elected for this organ, as vogais, Victor Manuel Pereira de Faria, Fernando Licínio Lopes Martins, Inês Vieira da Silva Ferreira Leite, Antonio Alberto Vieira Cura, António José Barradas Leitão, André Filipe Oliveira de Miranda, Telma Solange Silva Carvalho and, as alternates, Paulo Rui da Costa Valério, Luís Paulo Elias Pereira, Carla Susana Gomes dos Santos Naia. A vote was also taken for the National Data Protection Commission, which gathered the following votes: 153 votes 'yes', 65 white votes and 10 no votes. Thus, candidate Ana Paula Pinto Ferreira Lourenço is considered elected to this body. As regards the election of members to the Pedagogic Council of the Centre for Judicial Studies, the following result was found: 160 votes 'yes', 56 white votes and 12 zero votes. Faced with the results obtained, they are considered elected, as effective, Carolina de Castro Nunes Vicente Cunha and, as alternate, Rui Manuel Tavares Lancier. As regards the election of members to the General Council of the Centre for Judicial Studies, the following result was found: 156 votes 'yes', 58 white votes and 14 null votes. They therefore declare themselves elected as effective, Ana Rita Gil, in representation of the Socialist Party, Antonio Agostinho Cardoso da Conceição Guedes, in representation of the Social Democratic Party, and, as alternates, Carlos Carracho Proença, of the Socialist Party, and Joaquim Manuel Freitas da Rocha, of the Social Democratic Party. With regard to the election of President of the Economic and Social Council, the following result was found: 170 votes 'yes', 53 white votes and 5 zero votes. in this regard, it declares itself elected President of the Economic and Social Council Francisco José Pereira de Assis Miranda. As regards the election of two representatives to the Committee on the Monitoring of Educational Centres, the following result was found: 160 votes 'yes', 56 white votes and 12 zero votes. in these terms, we consider ourselves elected Maria do Rosário Lopes Amaro da Costa da Luz Carneiro, indicated by the Socialist Party, and Maria Paula da Graça Cardoso, indicated by the Social Democratic Party. As regards the election of two judges to the Constitutional Court, the following result was found: 194 votes 'yes', 24 white votes and 10 null votes. in these terms, Professor José João Abrantes and Judge Counsellor Maria da Assumption Raimundo are considered elected. Two Members were also elected to the Cyberspace Security Council and the following result was obtained: 149 votes 'yes', 66 white votes and 13 votes 'nulls. José Manuel dos Santos Magalhães, of the Socialist Party, and Hugo Daniel Alves Martins de Carvalho, of the Social Democratic Party, are declared elected for this body. As regards the election of members to the Board of Supervisors of the Integrated Criminal Information System, the following result was found: 150 votes 'yes', 61 white votes and 17 null votes. in these terms, the proposed candidates are considered not elected. As regards the election of representatives to the Higher Information Council, the following result was found: 142 votes 'yes', 68 votes white and 18 votes null. in these terms, the proposed candidates are considered not elected. As regards the election of two members to the Supervisory Board of the Information System of the Portuguese Republic, the following result was found: 137 votes 'yes', 75 white votes and 16 null votes. in these terms, the candidates proposed for this body are considered not elected. Finally, with regard to the election of a member to the National Defence Superior Council, 148 votes 'yes', 73 white votes and 7 no votes. in these terms, the candidate proposed for this body is considered not to be elected.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u5	Madam Secretary, you can continue with the other ads.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall then announce the diplomas which have entered the Bureau. I refer, first, to the admission of Lein's proposals 50 / XIV / 1. a ( ALRAM ) — Increase in deductions to the collection of expenditure on education and training by virtue of the COVID-19 pandemic — Amends the Code of Tax on the Income of Single Persons, approved by Decree-Law No 442 -A / 88 of 30 November and 51 / XIV/1. a ( GOV ) — Authorizes the Government to legislate on the posting of workers within the framework of the provision of services by transposing Directive ( EU ) No 2018 / 957. They also entered the Bureau, and were admitted, Law Projects No. 473 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Approves the Charter of Fundamental Rights in the Digital Age, which goes down to 1. the Commission ; 474 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Special social support programme for former COFACO workers, which falls to 10. the Commission ; 475 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Statute of the Public Security Police Trainer, which falls to 1. the Commission, in connection with 13. the Commission ; and 476 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Creates a special unit of salvation and animal rescue by amending Law No 27 / 2006 of 3 July and the first amendment to Decree-Law No 45 / 2019 of 1 April which falls to 7. the Commission. It also announced that it had entered the Bureau and was admitted, the Draft of Deliberation No. 9 / XIV / 1. a ( PAR) — Further to Resolution No 3 - PL / 2020 of 19 June on the extension of the normal period of operation of the Assembly of the Republic. They also entered the Bureau, and were admitted, the Resolution Projects No. 569 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends that the Government review the fee table of the services provided by lawyers in the Law and Court Access System, which falls to 1. the Commission ; 570 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends the continuation of information sessions, dissemination and debate on the evolution of the epidemiological situation of COVID-19 in Portugal, which falls to 9. the Commission ; 571 / XIV / 1. a ( CH) — Recommends that the Government maintain the continuity of meetings between party leaders and public health specialists, and they are designated by the Government and approved by Parliament, which falls to 9. the Commission ; 572 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends to the Government a mobilising initiative for interinstitutional debate and wider public hearing on the implementation of the European Union Recovery Plan ( Next Generation EU ), the Partnership Agreement and the Strategic Plan of the CAP ( PEPAC) 2021 - 2027, within the framework of the consequences of COVID-19, which falls to 13. the Commission in connection with 4. the Commission ; 573 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government act towards the correct energy classification and promote the reduction in the use of fluorinated gases in air conditioning appliances and their durability, which falls to 11. the Commission ; 574 / XIV / 1. a (BE) — Recommends that the Government requalify the Manuel Teixeira Gomes School in Portimão ; 575 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends that the Government prepare an audit of the private management of TAP, which falls to 6. the Commission ; 576 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government sensitize the European Union to act urgently on humanitarian cooperation in the fight against terrorism in Mozambique, which falls to 4. the Commission ; 577 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government approve a port which defines the values of the revaluation coefficients to be applied to pensions initiated during 2020, which falls to 10. the Commission in connection with 5. the Commission ; and 578 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Public outreach campaign of the Statute of the Informal Caregiver, which falls to 10. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u7	Mr Duarte Pacheco will now be pleased to continue reading the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, have also entered the Bureau, and have been admitted, Resolution Projects Nos 579 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Lifting of private shelters for animals, which falls to 7. the Commission ; 580 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP ) — Training, within the framework of Civil Protection, to save and rescue animals in the event of a disaster, which falls to 1. the Commission ; 581 / XIV / 1. a ( PAR) — Suspension of the period of operation of the Possible Parliamentary Investigation Commission to the operation of the State in the award of support following the 2017 fires in the Pinhal Interior area ; 582 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Economic and social response programme for the Algarve, which falls to 10. the Commission in connection with 6. the Commission; 583 / XIV / 1. a ( CH) — The inclusion of priority protection for animals in the national civil protection plan, which falls to 1. the Commission in connection with 7. the Commission ; 584 / XIV / 1. a ( CH) — For the postponement of the delivery deadlines for model 22 and IES, which is lower than 5. the Commission ; 585 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends to the Government the inclusion in the Reduction Support Programme of the Alentejo Line Railway Pass Tariff, which falls to 6. the Commission ; 586 / XIV / 1. a ( PAR) — Assessment of the implementation of the state of emergency declared by the Decree of the President of the Republic No 17 -A / 2020 of 2 April and 587 / XIV / 1. a ( PAR) — Assessment of the implementation of the state of emergency declared by the Decree of the President of the Republic No 20 -A / 2020 of 17 April 2020. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u9	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's get on the agenda.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u10	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u11	Is it for what purpose, Your Honor?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u12	Mr President, it is to make an appeal to the Bureau because the PSD Parliamentary Group has submitted an appeal...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u13	Madam Member, I ask you to remove the mask, or I don't understand.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u14	Of course, Mr. President. He said that the PSD Parliamentary Group has submitted to the Bureau a request, which goes on to present briefly, and we have come to appeal to the plenary not to admit by the Bureau this request for a lawyer by the plenary of the vote on Articles 104. o is 225. the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic. The basis is that Article 151. that of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic provides that the plenary of the Assembly may, at any time, decide on a text, or part thereof, to vote in the specialty, being that decision solely dependent on the request of at least 10 Members or a parliamentary group. We meet the requirements...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u15	Madam Member, I am sorry to interrupt you but at this stage we are not yet discussing this item on the agenda. So when we come into this agenda item, the honourable Member will make such an appeal to the Bureau. at this moment, we will follow the agenda which, as you know, begins with a set of motions for resolutions, without discussion times, and then with a set of motions for regrets.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u16	Mr President, with due respect, it is only because this influences the time given, but I leave to the criteria of good management of the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u17	Thank you very much, Mrs. Deputies. So let's go on. At the first item on the agenda we have the opinion of the motion for a resolution No 1 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves Decision No 3 / 2019 of the ACP-EU Committee of Ambassadors of 17 December 2019 adopting transitional measures pursuant to Article 95. paragraph 4 of the ACP-EU Partnership Agreement, without time for discussion. In the second point, we have the assessment of the Resolution Project No 581 / XIV / 1. a ( PAR) — Suspension of the term of operation of the Parliamentary Investigation Committee to the State's performance in the award of support following the 2017 fires in the Pinhal Interior area, also without time for discussion. At the third point, we have draft resolution No 586 / XIV / 1. a ( PAR) — Assessment of the implementation of the state of emergency, declared by the Decree of the President of the Republic No 17 -A / 2020 of 2 April, also without any time allocated. Still no time, at the fourth point, we have the Resolution Project No 587 / XIV / 1. a ( PAR) — Assessment of the implementation of the state of emergency declared by the Decree of the President of the Republic No 20 -A / 2020 of 17 April 2020. We can now vote in order. Mr Adam Silva asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u18	Mr President, it was only to ask you if this would be the right time for us to present our appeal, which my colleague, Mrs Catarina Rocha Ferreira, recently outlined, but you understood that it was not yet time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u19	I think the exact moment will be when this point is discussed. [[Pause.]] All right, Mr. Adam Silva or Mrs. Catarina Rocha Ferreira have the floor to tell us what it is about because, as I understand it, it is an appeal for the plenary to not be included in the script of some PSD solicitations. Mrs Catarina Rocha Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u20	Mr President, what happens is that we have come to appeal against the request for an appeal submitted by the PSD for the vote on Articles 104. o and 125. the Rules of Procedure, as follows : establishes Article 151. that of the Rules of Procedure which the plenary of the House may decide at any time to advocate a text, or part thereof, for a vote in the speciality and that this deliberations is dependent only on the request of at least 10 Members or a parliamentary group. However, this request was submitted by the PSD Parliamentary Group invoking this express quality and, therefore, we see no reason why it was not accepted. Moreover, the decision is not substantiated either, which violates the duty of justification set out in Article 152. the Code of Administrative Procedure. Although the deadline has been set until 11 a.m. today, the truth is that this is only an indicative period. Therefore, in accordance with Article 151. the vote may be taken at any time, and we have therefore requested that the Bureau's decision be annulled and that the request for an appeal by the PSD Parliamentary Group be admitted.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u21	Madam Member, the deadlines set out in the Rules of Procedure are not indicative, they are imperative.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u22	They're not!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u23	I ask you not to lose ourselves now in an endless discussion on this issue.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u24	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u25	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u26	Mr President, since we are going to vote next, it was only for the parliamentary groups to be clarified, at least that of the Left Block, about what we are going to vote on. We wanted to know what was the reason for the Bureau's decision if it was because of this request that it had gone out of time and for the only reason that it was to waste more time with the debate and not for any other political reason.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u27	Mr President, the only thing the President of the Parliament has to say about this is that the deadlines are not indicative, they are imperative. Since it did not enter within the deadline, there is no right to appeal by the PSD to be included in the script, so we shall vote for it immediately. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the BE were rejected, votes in favour of PSD, CDS-PP, PAN, CH and IL and abstentions from the PCP, the ENP and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We proceed with the vote on the draft vote No 290 / XIV / 1. a ( submitted by PAR and subscribed by members of BE, PAN, PEV, CH, PS, and PSD. ) — Greetings to the Centennial of Amália Rodrigues, which will be read by Ms. Maria da Luz Rosinha.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u28	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « On 1 July, the date on which he was born, or on 23 July, on which he was officially registered, Amália Rodrigues would complete his centenary these days, and it is true that, if he was alive, he would celebrate his birthday on both dates. In the month marking the beginning of the commemorations of his centenary, the Assembly of the Republic - is associated with Amália Rodrigues' evocation, a fadist who gave us more than an extraordinary voice, which aroused the world's admiration and woke the world up for the fado, but, above all, the encounter of the fado—the musical genre traditionally popular and barrister—with larger poets like Camões, David Mourão-Ferreira or Alexandre O' Neil, or with the great composers, like Alain Oulman. Amália Rodrigues owes itself one of the most remarkable cultural transformations of the 20th century Portuguese. Celebrating Amália Rodrigues is thus recognized - as a complex musical genius, in all its facets - as a fadist, creator and poet - without false unanimity or simplistic and fictional portraits, incompatible with the freedom with which he has always lived. Loved by the public, it was to the people and the art that Amália dedicated her loyalty, which provided her with a full and passionate story. And if the fairy owes her recognition as the Immaterial Heritage of Humanity, Portugal owes her the greatest honor, which is the preservation and dissemination of her magnificent work, far beyond the fado houses, where she will continue to live in love for many generations of fadists. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, evokes Amália Rodrigues, greeting and associating with the commemorations of the centenary of his birth. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u29	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, before we proceed to the vote, I want to announce the presence in the galleries of Diogo Gaspar and Sebastião Varela Silva, relatives of Amália Rodrigues, Prof. Rui Vieira Nery, Coordinator of the Working Group for the Commemorations of the Centenary of Amália Rodrigues, and representatives of the Amália Rodrigues Foundation, Prof. Dr. Vicente Rodrigues, President of the Board of Directors, and Dr. Olga Apollonia, Secretary-General. In particular to the Amália Rodrigues Foundation, I thank, on my behalf and on behalf of the Assembly of the Republic, the preparation of the small video which will then be designed, which constitutes a unique tribute of the Portuguese Parliament to the great fadist, on this day when the 100 years of his birth are officially celebrated. I would also like to thank, by inspiration, two Members here present, Joana Mortágua and Ana Rita Bessa. [[At this time, a videoevocative of the artist was designed, to the sound of the fado «Con Que Voz».]] [[General applause, stand up.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we shall vote on the draft vote No 290 / XIV / 1. a. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and acclamation, standing.]] We passed the Vote Project No. 293 / XIV / 1. a ( presented by the PCP and subscribed by a PS Member ) — Despite the death of Luís Filipe Costa, which will be read by Secretary Duarte Pacheco.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u30	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « Luís Filipe Costa, journalist, radio player, director, writer and argumentist, unmistakable voice of radio and television, democrat, anti-fascist and committed citizen, died last July 21 in Lisbon at the age of 84. Luís Filipe Costa will forever be linked to the history of the April Revolution as one of the voices they have read, to the microphones of the Radio Club Português (RCP), voluntarily, the communiqués of the Movement of Armed Forces. In addition to this milestone, Luís Filipe Costa played an important role in the Portuguese cultural landscape before and after April 25. In the 1960s, as director of the news services of the CPR, it revolutionized radio information, by introducing a concise information style, which influenced successive generations of journalists and helped many news to pass the meshes of censorship. The Press House awarded him the Best Radialist Prize in 1966 and 1974, and in 1968, the SER ( Spanish Broadcasting Society ) awarded him the award with its name. After April 25, Luís Filipe Costa transferred his activity to RTP, where he carried out fictional films, documentaries, plays and interviews. He was an argumentist, made television films and documentary and fictional series and adapted novels from Portuguese fictionists. There is Only One Earth, a pioneer of ecological cinema in Portugal, received the Lisbon Diary Critic Award for documentary series. Whoever has fear of Brahms, about the famous composer, received the award from the Hungarian Radio. The film Morte d'Manm received in 1988 the Grand Prix of the Chianchino Film Festival ( Italy ) and the 2nd. the award of the International Film Festival of Figueira da Foz. Luís Filipe Costa received the Career Consecration Award ( 2011 ) and the first Caeiro Churches Prize ( 2012 ), awarded by the Portuguese Society of Authors. In 2010 he was decorated with the Degree of Knight of the Order of Freedom. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting on 23 July 2020, expresses its regret at the death of Luís Filipe Costa and sends condolences to its relatives. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u31	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the draft vote that has just been read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Following the Vote Project No. 296 / XIV / 1. a ( presented by PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, IL, and non-registered Members Joacine Katar Moreira and Cristina Rodrigues ) — Regret of death in service of firefighters Filipe André Azinheiro Pedrosa and José Augusto Dias Fernandes, who will be read by Ms. Maria da Luz Rosinha.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u32	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « On July 18, he died, while participating in a fire-reigning and surveillance operation in Leiria, firefighter Filipe André Azinheiro Pedrosa, 34 years old. The tragic death of Filipe Pedrosa, also the son of a fireman and recognized among his peers as ‘an exceptional fireman, always available to help others’, father three days ago, is the latest in a series of accidents that have affected this professional class. Also on 11 July last, in Louisiana, fireman José Augusto Dias Fernandes died, 55 years old, while fighting a fire in the Lousã greenhouse. He was recognized by his colleagues as someone who wanted to be ‘ always ahead, always giving his best, ’ always being an example for all in the corporation. We are in the acuteest phase of rural fires in our country, which traditionally occurs in the summer months, and the soldiers of peace are always at the forefront of the fight against fire, risking their physical integrity and life in behalf of the community. The high number of fires occurring annually in our country exposes our firefighters and our firefighters to danger, which often results in injuries or even death. The soldiers of peace are often the heroes of summers of fires, an example by their courage, so full that they put at risk what they have the greatest, life, in defense of all of us. We don't forget them, we won't forget them. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its regret at the death of Filipe André Azinheiro Pedrosa and José Augusto Dias Fernandes and conveys his condolences to his relatives, friends, colleagues in the profession and to the corporations that joined them. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u33	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the draft vote that has just been read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We moved on to the Vote Project No. 297 / XIV / 1. a ( submitted by the PAR and signed by the Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues and by PS and PSD Members) — In spite of the death of Antonio Franco, who will be read by Secretary Duarte Pacheco.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u34	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « He died last July 15th, António Franco, at the age of 76. Born in Lisbon, on March 17, 1944, Antonio Manuel Canastreiro Franco was licensed in Law by the Faculty of Law of the University of Lisbon. In 1970, he began a brilliant diplomatic career in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, passing through Luanda, between 1986 and 1990, as Consul-General, and Barcelona, also as Consul-General, between 1990 and 1991, but also by the Portuguese Temporary Mission to the Structures of the Peace Process in Angola, between 1991 and 1993, as Deputy Head of Mission, António Monteiro. In 1994, he took his first position as Ambassador in São Tomé and Príncipe, accumulating with the functions of Non-resident Ambassador in Libreville, Gabon, in 1995. In 1996, he was invited by the President of the Republic Jorge Sampaio to head his Civil House, position that lasts until 2001, when he headed to Brazil, there he remained as Ambassador until 2004, placing a final point on a long and devoted professional course, in which his life intelligence was decisive, the enormous insight and (...) the rare talent to deal with delicate or melindarous situations, to pacify relations and wage conflicts, as former President Jorge Sampaio says. Shortly after the Revolution in October 1974, António Franco was appointed as a spokesman of the Ministerial Commission for the Sanitation and Reclassification of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, from which he left months later, at his request, and now in 1975, he joined the Commission for the Restructuring of the same Ministry. In 1977, he was appointed Deputy Chairman of the Constitutional Commission, working closely with Ernesto Melo Antunes for six years. He is later appointed Secretary of the State Council by the President of Ramalho Eanes Republic. As a result of its political and cultural formation, he was one of the rare diplomats of his generation who was affiliated in a public and assumed form, which never prevented him from exercising, without exception, rigorous and competent representation functions of the Portuguese State, who served and honored him as few. António Franco devoted the last years of his life to his passions — opera, cinema and reading — and, in particular, his family, closely accompanying the lives of his children and grandchildren and his wife, Ana Gomes, on whom his love was expressed with his friends and his strictest criticisms were always constructive and with admiration as a basis. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its deep regret at the death of Antonio Franco, recalling the citizen and remarkable servant of the State and addressing to his family and friends the most sorry condolences. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u35	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, before we proceed to the vote, I inform you that they are present in the galleries to Ambassador Ana Gomes and the children of both, Marta, Monica, Diogo and Joana. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the draft vote which has been read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, as a result of the votes that we have just adopted, we will keep a minute of silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] I am grateful that Vice-President Fernando Negrão replaces me in the presidency, since Mr Rui Rio and I now have a meeting of the State Council. [[At the moment, Vice-President Fernando Negrão took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u36	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. We will have an afternoon of votes, some of which with some complexity. I therefore ask for some patience at the table, beginning with myself, and all the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. With regard to the registration of presences, it is done at the time they vote in the electronic vote. Therefore, there is no need for any other procedure. At the time of the electronic vote and the first vote, the ladies and gentlemen. Members shall immediately be registered as present. In addition, the Chamber must have the composition of the group of Members who must make up the plenary, which is 120 Members. I hope and hope that the leadership of the parliamentary groups has done so, because with regard to electronic votes we will have two moments. A first moment with this group of Members, who will then leave the Chamber and be replaced by the Members. Members who are present in their offices to follow the work of the Plenary via television screen. at a second moment, after that first group voted and before they left, I was grateful that they would download the computer screens, so that Members entering the Chamber would only vote with the screen raised, on an obvious matter of public hygiene. These are the recommendations. I'd say the hall is very well composed. I don't know if they're all, but a large majority of the gentlemen. Members are present. Therefore, it is visible that there is a quorum of deliberation. Let us then follow up on the legislative votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u37	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u38	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u39	Mr President, I would like to make an inquiry on the conduct of the work, which is as follows: many of the texts that we are now going to vote on the most various subjects have been recently completed in committees with own competence in relation to the subject matter. However, in the official script of votes that is being distributed to us, these texts — if I understood correctly as regards the research effort I did — are not electronically accessible. This means that many Members are in a position to vote on matters without having been able to access the content of these subjects. What I want to ask Mr President is whether this lack of information is supreme or not.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u40	Sir, we will contact the services to find out what's going on, so we can give you an answer. However, Mr President, is it possible to say in particular what these diplomas are?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u41	Mr President, honestly, I can't, because what I've been looking at in each of them gave me the result of the initial projects being accessible but not the texts coming out of the committees. Consequently, I think that none of these texts is accessible. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u42	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, as a result of Mr Jorge Lacão's intervention and a matter of safety principle, we will be interrupting the work for 5 minutes, but I ask you not to leave the Chamber.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u43	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u44	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u45	Mr President, every Friday we saw exactly what Mr. Jorge Lacão brought us here today. We do not have access, every Friday, to the final documents of the committees. It's not new today. I myself have raised this issue by letter to the President of the Assembly of the Republic twice. So far it has not been resolved and it will not be resolved now, because in five minutes Mr. President will ask you again. Ladies and gentlemen, we will continue to have the problem unsolved. I would therefore ask Mr President to continue with the agenda and with the votes, which is why we are here. Members and parliamentary groups should have done their job.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u46	Mr President, we are here to vote, but to do so safely. The so-called legal certainty is fundamental to the work and above all to the voting. Therefore, in this respect, I would ask you to do so. Members who stay in the Chamber, because in no less than 5 minutes, we will have definitive information from the services. [[Pause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let us then restart our votes. The information of the services is as follows: with no link itself, the committees have sent us the texts and are therefore associated with their initiative on the Parliament website. At the moment that one of the Mrs. Members to note that there is some discrepancy with regard to what has been voted on in the committees, I would ask that the Bureau be brought to the attention. For example, with regard to the vote we are voting on, which concerns the Nationality Law, the final text of the committee is contained. Mrs. Members, we will generally vote on Bill No. 3 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Change the Law of Nationality and the Rules of Procedure of the Registers and Notary( 9 ). the amendment to Law No 37 / 81 of 3 October and 34. the amendment to Decree-Law No 322 -A / 2001 of 14 December ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP, PAN, CH and non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, PEV and MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstention from IL.]] Now we're going to vote on a request...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u47	Mr President, may I take the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u48	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u49	Mr President, if I may, I would suggest that all requests relating to lawyers by the plenary should now be voted together, since there is a general consensus for them to be approved.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u50	Therefore, we shall vote together in favour of a proposal for an amendment to the final text, submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, concerning Bills Nos 117 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Extends access to naturalization to persons born in Portuguese territory after 25 April 1974 and before the entry into force of the Nationality Law (Procedes the ninth amendment to Law No 37 / 81 of 3 October) and 118 / XIV/1. a ( PCP ) — Extends the application of the principle of jus soli in the Portuguese Nationality Act ( Ninth Amendment to Law No 37 / 81 of 3 October, which approves the Nationality Law ), and the application by BE, of a proposal for an amendment to the final text tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees concerning the Bill No 226 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Amendment No 1 / 2001 to the Organic Law of 14 August 2001 which regulates the election for local authorities. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u51	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u52	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u53	Mr President, on this legislative initiative there is another request for a lawyer, submitted by the NAP, but what Mr. Pedro Filipe Soares has asked the Bureau for is that all the requests for counsel that we are going to vote today, during the afternoon, be voted on now, because there is a consensus for them to be voted in favour. Is that so, sir? Mr President, that is what we are proposing to the Bureau again.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u54	Do we all agree on that? We therefore also vote on the requests made by the BE and the PAN respectively for the full vote in the speciality of amendments to the final text submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on Rules of Procedure Nos 1 / XIV / 1. a ( IL) — Fourth amendment to the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic No 1 / 2007 of 20 August in order to ensure the fair and proportional representation of all political parties, 2 / XIV / 1. a ( CH) — Amendment to the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic eliminating the qualitative difference of treatment currently existing between political parties in this Assembly represented, 3 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Fourth amendment to the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic, 4 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Fourth amendment to the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic No 1 / 2007 of 20 August extending the rights of Members solely representing a party and defining criteria for fixing time grids, 5 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Fourth amendment to the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic, 6 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — The fourth amendment is made to the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic No 1 / 2007 of 20 August, 7 / XIV / 1. a ( IL) — Fourth amendment to the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic No 1 / 2007 of 20 August in order to regulate the issue of votes and 8 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Concrete the third stage of amendments to the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic No 1 / 2007 of 20 August 2007 in this Parliament. All right, with agreement, we can do the vote. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, is that what all the requirements were intended to be voted on, even if they relate to other matters?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u55	I think it was all settled at this stage, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u56	All right. Mr Pedro Delgado Alves asks for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u57	Mr President, it is for a suggestion of procedural simplification. Since we all agree to vote on all the requests for legal advice by the plenary, and when we arrive at the time of discussing each one of us is a public lawyer, we made a single vote of acceptance so that the votes of the lawyers could take place throughout the afternoon, and when the vote takes place, it is identified, for the citizens accompanying us at home, that we are voting for that lawyer. So we would vote only instead of 16.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u58	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us then vote on the following requests for the full vote on amendments: the authorship of BE, relating to the final text, submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on Bills Nos 117 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) and 118 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) ; the authorship of BE and the NAP, relating to the final text, submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, on Bill No. 226 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) ; the authorship of BE and the NAP, relating to the final text, submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, on draft Rules of Procedure Nos 1 / XIV / 1. ( IL), 2 / XIV / 1 a ( CH), 3 / XIV / 1 a ( PS ), 4 / XIV / 1 a ( PSD ), 5 / XIV / 1 a ( CDS-PP ), 6 / XIV / 1. ( PAN), 7 / XIV / 1 a ( IL) and 8 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) ; the authorship of the CFP, concerning the replacement text, submitted by the National Defence Commission, on the Proposal for a Law No 3 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) and Lein.o 27 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ), 57 / XIV / 1. a (PAN), 121 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ), 180 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) and 193 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) ; the authorship of the NAP, relating to the final text, submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, on the Proposal for a Law No 46 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) ; the authorship of BE, the PCP and the NAP, relating to the final text, submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, on the Draft Law No 459 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) ; the authorship of BE, concerning the final text, submitted by the Committee on Budgets and Finance, on Bill No. 216 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ). [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] We moved on to the first additional script, which contains the final text, presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on Bills Nos 117 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Extends access to naturalization to persons born in Portuguese territory after 25 April 1974 and before the entry into force of the Nationality Law ( makes the ninth amendment to Law No 37 / 81 of 3 October) and 118 / XIV/1. a ( PCP ) — Extends the application of the principle of jus soli in the Law of Portuguese Nationality ( the ninth amendment to Law No 37 / 81 of 3 October, which approves the Law of Nationality). Who's signing up to intervene? [[Pause.]] Mrs Beatriz Gomes Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u59	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: Good afternoon to all and to all. The amendment to the Nationality Act was of the first initiatives presented by the Left Block in this Legislation. It was not by chance, we wanted to underline the principle that we stand for: who is born in Portugal must be Portuguese or Portuguese. Our proposal defends the primacy of soil rights for the allocation of Portuguese nationality, regardless of nationality, legal situation or length of stay in the national territory of their parents. Once again, this proposal was rejected by the PS and the right. There are two opposing views of society at issue. The proposal of the Block of Left reflects Portugal's view as a different society, composed of people of different cultural, ethnic and racial backgrounds, reflecting in the law the diversity that exists in Portuguese society. On the other hand, we have a vision that resists recognizing this diversity as part of the national community, condemning so many people to the condition of foreigners in their own country. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u60	Mr António Filipe of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u61	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We take advantage of this time devoted to lawyers to warmly congratulating ourselves on the approval of this PCP bill, amending the Nationality Act, aiming to extend the jus soli principle in the Portuguese Nationality Act. This approval does not fully correspond to the proposal made by the CFP, resulting from amendments tabled by the Socialist Party, but corresponds to an advance and we only have to congratulate ourselves on another step in the Nationality Law in the sense that we advocate, which is that of the extension of jussoli in the Law in the Nationality. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u62	Mrs Joacine Katar Moreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u63	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This is one of the effectively most important legislation. It is related to the enlargement of citizenship and is also very related to social justice. These amendments to the Nationality Law are not the ideal amendments, the law is not yet the ideal, because, as long as it is not a law that gives the hypothesis that someone born into national territory is automatically national citizen, what we are doing is improving legislation successively. I am pleased with the current amendments, but we need to strengthen that the law is still insufficient. While individuals born between 1981 and 2000 do not have Portuguese nationality, this law still needs to be amended.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u64	Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, of the PAN, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u65	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We welcome the progress we are making today, since, taking into account the proposal of the NAP, which has also been approved, we are extending access to the naturalization of all those who were born in Portuguese territory after the moratorium of the Nationality Law, thus allowing the correction of something which also aimed, historically, to restore this right of access. There were some issues that were left on the way, particularly with regard to the other parties, but we do not follow those that are their intentions. However, from the point of view of historical justice is more than corrected today and, therefore, of course, we welcome the work of the working group in this matter and what has been achieved with it.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u66	Mr. André Ventura has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u67	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I just want to realize that the arrival will vehemently oppose any amendment that extends the jus solo in the Nationality Law. Portuguese nationality cannot, nor should it be, be on sale and with us will not be on sale. The extension of Portuguese nationality to those who have territory not a connection of nationality, but simply a link of territory, a mere territorial connection is another step towards destroying nationality in Portugal. [[BE's protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u68	With no further inscriptions, we shall proceed to the special vote on the proposal submitted by BE amending Article 1 ( 1 ( f ). the final text, submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on Bills Nos 117 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) and 118 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP, PAN, CH, IL and non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues were rejected and votes against BE, PCP, PEV and MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] [[(f) persons born in Portuguese territory, children of foreigners who are not at the service of their respective State;]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u69	Mrs. Members, we return to the main script, where it refers us to additional script II. Anyone participating in the final text proposal, submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, on Bill No. 226 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD )?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u70	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u71	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u72	Mr President, if I may, we still have votes on page 5 of the main script. Or does Mr President intend to vote first on all the specialties?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u73	We're going to switch to additional script II. Would you like to sign up for an intervention?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u74	Mr President, on the amendments to the law governing the election of local authorities, I would like to write to Mr José Maria Cardoso of the Left Block. I didn't do it before because I thought the order of votes was different, but registration is being made right now.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u75	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u76	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u77	Mr President, since we were discussing lawyers within the framework of the Nationality Law, I think it would be better to close this matter and then move on to the next one.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u78	Mr President, the idea is to leave all electronic votes to a second stage. Thus, following the approval of the requests, the BE and the PAN, for the plenary to vote on a proposal for an amendment to the final text submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on Bill No. 226 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — The ninth amendment to the Organic Law No 1 / 2001 of 14 August, which regulates the election for local authorities bodies, has been registered for interventions several Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. José Maria Cardoso of the Left Block has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u79	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Article 7 ( 3 ( c ). that of the Organic Law of Local Authorities, which has a new formulation, says taxively that: « No citizen can apply at the same time to :». In points (a) and (b), nothing new reproduces what was already in the law and merely separates the body from the text in paragraphs. However, point (c) introduces an absurd novelty, which is no more than an anti-democratic investment, as opposed to citizen participation. Explain to me what is the basis, what is the clarity, what is the transparency, invoked in the bill itself, which is intended to be achieved with this point in saying that no citizen can apply simultaneously to the municipal chamber and the municipal assembly. Honestly, to whom do they intend to coerce rights with this tacit PS / PSD agreement, less and less in the shade and more to the clear, in a kind of supremacy of party machines? It is clear that they intend to reach the parties with less local representativeness and, consequently, to weaken democratic plurality. But even more regrettable is the fact that they restrict the participation of the movements of citizens who have proliferated, and very well, during the elections, in an act of active citizenship as the basic principle of participatory democracy. It is this citizenship that they want to achieve, maintaining the hypocrisy of the speech of appeal to participation. I am saying that it will be a legislative obscenity to approve this point. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u80	Mrs Emília Cerqueira, PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u81	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In fact, in this appeal made by the Bloc and the PAN — which I have not yet intervened, but I will allow myself to reply, because it is exactly the same point, what is at stake is the same citizen cannot be a candidate at the same time in the municipal chamber and in the municipal assembly. It is a matter of transparency. We are talking about strengthening democracy, transparency of democracy, the contract between the elector and the electorate, and this contract must be clear as to who is a candidate for what. The electors have the right to know whether the citizen wants to be his mayor or his president of the municipal assembly, whether he wants to be his councilor or whether he wants to be his member of the municipal assembly. It is this transparency that we are talking about and democracy is only strengthened by these amendments, which make us go forward with truth and transparency, which is what the Portuguese deserve, which the masses deserve. They deserve to know exactly who is chosen, why it is chosen, and why it is chosen. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u82	Mr André Silva of the NAP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u83	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Socialist Party, with the support of its partner of government, the PSD, taking advantage of the fact that it is involved in a particularly accelerated legislative process, presented, without debate in general or in the specialty, a proposal aimed at limiting the action of citizens and small parties in the forthcoming autarchic elections, seeking to prevent candidates from being presented equal to different municipal bodies, a practice that exists in our country and to which large and small parties resort in all the autarchic elections. There has never been any problem with that, but the Socialist Party, in the style « iron fist », remembered to create this problem. And the Socialist Party, which in other legislative processes is so demanding in the hearing of external entities, in this process proposed an amendment that, more than innovative, structurally changes the rules of the candidatures. And he did so without the National Association of Municipalities being heard or consulted, as required by Article 141. the Rules of Procedure, since this is an initiative that justifies consultation. [[PS protests.]] This proposal brings ineligible compression to the right to apply for political parties and groups of electorate citizens, so it lacks a thorough discussion in general and in specialty, something that has not happened. The NAP therefore brings to the vote, in plenary, the proposal for the elimination of this amendment by the Socialist Party, which was approved in the speciality.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u84	Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u85	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today is not a good day for democracy. The proposal we are discussing now, which is set out in additional script II, and the following proposal, which is contained in additional script III, i.e. the elections of local bodies and the reduction and limitation of the 15-year debates, gives reason to those who think that politics is a game of powerful people in which ordinary people and not included can aspire to be. The interests permanently taken into account of the central bloc, the negotiations behind the backlogs and the favours, the obstacles to the new parties and individual initiatives, the blind vote obedience, all this does not honor either this Parliament or any of its Members. The Liberal Initiative has many good reasons to exist, but this is one more of them, because to the interests and central bloc we say no! ' ; to the negotiations and to the blind obedience we say 'no! ; to transparency and to the increased scrutiny of government acts we say 'yes'! And to a more aired Portugal we say "yes! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” We say 10, 100, 1000 times "yes! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u86	Mr Telmo Correia, from the CDS-PP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u87	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I mean, in a very short and non-proclaratory way, that this diploma, in general, and its various articles, more than this article in particular, deserves our disapproval and our vote against. And this for a very simple reason: what has been a systematic call by political power to the participation of independent and elective citizens in the elections is seriously limited. In this diploma, a number of obstacles are created, almost directed towards caad mano, against autarchical candidatures, in particular those who gain cameras — and it is easy to understand what we are talking about if we think about the city of Porto, for example —...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u88	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u89	... and therefore we vote against this path of proposals that make petitions more difficult, which make it almost impossible for citizens' initiatives to reach the plenary and put a number of obstacles to independent candidatures. It is in fact negative to Portuguese democracy what is happening this last week of the Legislative Session. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u90	Mr Pedro Delgado Alves of the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u91	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, very telegraphically, on this point, I would just like to emphasise the following: to respect the electorate is to tell which body is candidate. Where is it obvious and possible for a person to apply to an executive body and its supervisory body, which is the municipal assembly, at the same time, not clarifying the elector in the event of being elected — and sometimes we even have the same candidate as the president of the municipal chamber and the president of the municipal assembly — which of the two mandates will be exercised?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u92	At the end of 40 years, did you realize that? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u93	Is this taking the electoral commitment seriously to the voters to whom we are going to vote? [[P.S.'s applause.]] E—see! — the municipal chambers of our country have between 5, the smaller ones, and 17 councillors. Is it an insurmountable obstacle that 17 names in Lisbon have to be different from those who apply for the municipal assembly and that 5 names, in the other municipalities, have to be different from those who are candidates for the municipal assembly? Oh, my God! Let's not tear your clothes off in front of what is obvious and obvious. And, Mr André Silva, this matter was discussed in plenary, in general. We expressly said that we were going to present the proposal, we presented it at the time of the discussion in the specialty and the process is being discussed since March of this year. It was not in a hurry, it was thought up and it is in favour of a good local democracy. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u94	Mrs. Members, with no further entries for interventions, we shall vote on the proposal submitted by the PS and PSD amending Article 7 ( 3 ( c ). the Organic Law No 1 / 2001 of 14 August, as set out in Article 2. the final text, submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, on Bill No. 226 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ).
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u95	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u96	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u97	Mr President, my question is about the conduct of the proceedings and it has only to do with this issue of lawyers. Not all the proposals are structured in the same way, so in this vote, what we shall be voting on is the article in the final text and therefore the vote in favour of the article is to maintain itself and the vote against is to eliminate it. It is that there are proposals to the contrary and, therefore, when we get there, we must pay particular attention. I would leave only this note, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u98	We shall then vote on the amendment already mentioned. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PS and PSD were adopted against BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira.]] [[This is the following: (c) the municipal chamber and the municipal assembly of the same municipality.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u99	Mrs. Members, following the approval of the requests, the BE and the PAN, for the fuller, for the vote on proposals relating to the final text, submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, on draft Rules of Procedure Nos 1 / XIV / 1. a ( IL) — Fourth amendment to the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic No 1 / 2007 of 20 August in order to ensure the fair and proportional representation of all political parties, 2 / XIV / 1. a ( CH) — Amendment to the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic eliminating the qualitative difference of treatment currently existing between political parties in this Assembly represented, 3 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Fourth amendment to the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic, 4 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Fourth amendment to the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic No 1 / 2007 of 20 August extending the rights of the sole representatives of a party and defining criteria for fixing time grids, 5 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Fourth amendment to the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic, 6 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — The fourth amendment is made to the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic No 1 / 2007 of 20 August, 7 / XIV / 1. a ( IL) — Fourth amendment to the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic No 1 / 2007 of 20 August in order to regulate the issue of votes and 8 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Concrete the third stage of amendments to the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic No 1 / 2007 of 20 August 2007 in this legislature, several Members have entered for interventions. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr José Manuel Pureza, from the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u100	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In the time of deep social crisis when we enter, it will be more important than ever a strong Parliament, which is the centre of the political system where the contrasts, consensus and choices are made. PS and PSD are betting that it doesn't happen that way. Mr Rui Rio — justice has been given to him — clearly told what was coming. For him, the Prime Minister has nothing to spend time playing accounts in the Assembly of the Republic, he has to concentrate on his work. The PSD proposal, that the debates with the Prime Minister from two-monthly to two-monthly, is the expression of this arrogant political devaluation of Parliament. Antonio Costa — justice is done to him — clearly told what he was coming to. For him, the 15-year debates with the Prime Minister, I quote, «are one of the stupidest inventions that the Assembly of the Republic has made in recent years». That is why the PS accepts that Parliament has to concentrate on making laws in committee. The Parliament of the technicians, the experts in the first paragraph of the article do not know how many, but who are allergic to the political debate and who receive the Prime Minister, every two months, as one who receives a guest of honour and not as the Prime Minister of a parliamentary democracy. Parliament that the central bloc affirms in this revision of the Rules of Procedure is an increasingly disvitalised assembly of society, all contrary to what the present time demands of democracy. That is why the Left Block advocates this amendment to the Rules of Procedure so that each Member and every Member may say whether this is the Parliament he wants for the country. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u101	Mr André Silva of the NAP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u102	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The NAP brings the plenary opportunity to reverse the worst decision to put an end to the 15-year debates. It is difficult to believe that it is a proposal that was born from the PSD, an opposition party, which believes that the government needs less scrutiny and should pay less attention to Parliament. In England, the Prime Minister gives weekly replies to the Members; this is why the Prime Minister decides to visit Parliament only every two months. I appeal to PSD Members : they do not accept being PS team B,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u103	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u104	... make your party respect you, respect parliamentary democracy and do not allow us all to exercise the supervisory role of the government action that the voters have attributed to you and that the voters have attributed to you. to the Members of the Socialist Party I ask you not to forget the role that your party had in building democracy and in valuing the right of opposition in Portugal, I ask you not to forget the struggles that your party waged in the times of Cavaquism, I ask you to consider if, for reasons of political tactics, it makes sense to waste the legacy of Mário Soares, Almeida Santos or António Guterres. Don't let him! Let us vote in favour of the NAP proposal! The leaders change, the majority change, but the institutions remain. [[Congratulations from the PAN and the Member of Parliament not inscribed Joacine Katar Moreira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u105	Mr José Luís Ferreira of the ENP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u106	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This proposal, which was prepared, cooked and presented by the PS and the PSD, to amend the rules of the Rules of Procedure as regards the fifteen-year debates with the Prime Minister, represents a real attack on one of the most noble powers or powers of this sovereignty body, which is the Assembly of the Republic. To intend to pass the debates with the 15-year-old Prime Minister, as they are today, for only four times a year, I would say until I remember the devil. [[PSD protests.]] And I would not remember, because it is an absolutely unqualified proposal and whose boldness is only understandable if the reasons that led PS and PSD to present it are linked to the fear of political combat. The Greens, who have even publicly stated that they have no dogma in relation to the 15-year debates and that they would therefore be open to the discussion of their periodicity and, more broadly, the format of these debates and the time grids assigned to them, would never do so in accordance with what PS and PSD they now want. It is that this proposal, which goes from 80 to 8, carries with it a dangerous reduction in the powers of supervision of this House to the activity of the Government. And, by substantially weakening the powers of the Assembly of the Republic, we are, of course, also weakening democracy itself, in addition to being a proposal that at nothing, on the contrary, contributes to the credibility of this sovereignty body. It is therefore a proposal which is of no interest to our democratic life and nothing contributes to the credibility of the Assembly of the Republic, only interested in the central bloc and, by the way, not all the Members of the PS and PSD benches.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u107	Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u108	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It was no further scrutiny, but, yes, scrutiny unless it transformed the Portuguese miracle and Portugal is not on the black lists of tourists from several countries. It was no more balloting, but yes, balloting unless it led to chaos the SNS (National Health Service) does not COVID and to longer waiting lists. It was no more scrutiny, but, yes, scrutiny unless it allowed the postponement of the Budget Framework Act and it will allow a situation in education that will mortgage the future of a whole generation. And I could cite dozens of cases where there was less scrutiny and no more scrutiny. I therefore trust and appeal that there should be enough free women and men in this House to reject this proposal.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u109	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u110	Mr António Filipe of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u111	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This amendment to the system of debates with the Prime Minister has unfortunately tarnished what could be a consensual and very reasonable review of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic. Indeed, there have been a number of improvements in the Rules of Procedure, in the large dozens of articles that have been changed, but PS and PSD insisted on this proposal which will mark this revision of the Rules of Procedure with decisive effect. The CFP is so pleased to talk about this that in several stages of this debate it has expressed its openness to discuss a reasonable solution for monitoring the activity of the Government, which could not necessarily go through the 15th anniversary of the debates, but which maintained an acceptable and reasonable level of scrutiny by the Assembly of the Republic. Now, this reasonable proposal never appeared and what appeared, on the part of the PS and PSD, was to transform the 15-year debates into two-month debates every two months. This is quite different, in fact it represents a very significant reduction in the vote on the Government's activity by the Assembly of the Republic and we consider it unacceptable. And not only have we voted against this provision, in the specialty, as it will decisively affect the way the CFP votes in the overall final vote of these amendments to the Rules of Procedure. In the face of this amendment, the overall vote on the CFP can only be against, which we regret very much because we believe that this is the particular point that seriously distorts what could have been a positive and reasonable reform of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u112	Mr Telmo Correia, from the CDS-PP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u113	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to point out, on behalf of the CDS-PP, that this is indeed a historic moment in the life of our Parliament, but it is a historic moment for the negative, i.e. a moment of black history in the life of our Parliament. This moment is marked by a decision in which the Prime Minister, who—signs himself! — it has not been here for almost two months for a 15-year debate to stop coming to this Parliament. The Prime Minister, who came twice a month, will come to this Parliament every two months. What's the argument? The argument is extraordinary: that he does not have time. But is it the same Prime Minister that we see every day, of propaganda ceremony at the propaganda ceremony? Oh, my God! Is this the same Prime Minister who doesn't have time to come to Parliament from 15 to 15 days? Oh, my God! Or does he need to work and that, when he comes here to Parliament, he answers us, responds to all parties, that is not work, is waste of time? Oh, my God! The argument is absolutely extraordinary and less supervision is less democracy. This amendment gives a beat in the Rules of Procedure, the amendment of which was led by a member of the Socialist Party — António José Seguro — curiously with an absolute Prime Minister of the Socialist Party. And it's not just a major scandal, because whoever proposes it is the main party of the opposition and not the party of the government, because if it were the party of the government, it was an even greater scandal. But the government party, which is very critical, soon took this same opportunity and passed from an ancient concept, which we already knew, that of « let us work! , for the concept of « let him work, not the apple, do not force him to come to Parliament! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” It is a gigantic retreat and therefore I end by telling the Socialist Party that, if I do not understand and do not understand the reasons of an opposition party so far to want to vote less on the Prime Minister — frankly, so far, I have not understood it, Mr President. PSD Members —, this tarnishes your story. The Socialist Party, in our view, has many mistakes—we are on the other side of the political barricade—but there is one thing I have always recognized: the Socialist Party has always been exemplary, from the point of view of Parliament, of parliamentaryism and of the defence of democratic institutions. This is a spot in the history of the Socialist Party, against the one that has always been its best tradition, and therefore there are justly indignant voices in the Socialist Party itself.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u114	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u115	They should think about it, because it actually represents a huge retreat and a huge slaughter in democracy as we know it. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u116	Mr. André Ventura, from arrive, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u117	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today is a day that mars our democracy. We started with a legislative session that wanted to end with the right of small parties to confront the Prime Minister and we ended with a legislative session in which everyone else is prevented from confronting the Prime Minister of Portugal, with the reason that he is tired and that he should not tire of coming to Parliament. It must have much more to do, and certainly has, than the daily propaganda that is made on TV by Antonio Costa! But it will raise the question of the constitutionality of this Rules of Procedure. It is that a Prime Minister cannot come to the Assembly of the Republic anytime, because that violates the tradition stronger than Portuguese parliamentaryism. The Prime Minister cannot say « today, I want and I will; tomorrow, I do not want and I do not». This violates the essential of Portuguese constitutionalism in the area of parliamentaryism. The last word should be heard by the Constitutional Court, so dear to the Socialist Party, that the Court should now rule on this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u118	Mr André Coelho Lima, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u119	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: Let's see things as they are. First, the separation of powers. From Montesquieu the building of the democratic rule of law is divided into legislative, executive and judicial power. Let us not allow this basic principle of the rule of law to be overturned by Parliament's protagonistic concern. Or do you think that not having the government present in this sovereignty body despises the debates that take place in your absence? We don't consider it! As regards supervision, let us be serious: does the Assembly of the Republic lose any of its supervisory powers, just one thing? I dare tell you which one. Not only does it not lose, as it strengthens, in particular, by becoming compulsory for government members to answer our questions and demands within 48 hours. But is that not the most used form of supervision for us? The one who isn't TV? [[PCP protests.]] Mrs. Members, the government has 70 members. Do you really think there is only supervision when the Prime Minister is here? I didn't imagine so many Members lacking the presence of the Prime Minister, nor so advocates of personalization in political life, something that has not been seen since the time of the 'other lady'! But let's go to the proposal. Is there, in this proposal, a different way of seeing discussions with the government? There, obviously! A more substantive, more prepared, less episodic vision. A clear option to exchange media surveillance by political supervision. An option to leave the Prime Minister the subjectless debates, obliging the Government and the Assembly to thematic debates, with a deeper and less circumstantial analysis of the issues under discussion. Let us be even more clear: the Prime Minister will come to six debates in the Assembly of the Republic, plus the debates of the state of the nation, the budget and the preparatory of the European Councils. It's 10 debates! If you want the plenary to continue without sessions in August, this gives almost a debate per month. In addition to these, we still have six thematic debates with the Government, with or without the Prime Minister. If the Prime Minister understands to participate in thematic debates, he will be here between 10 and 16 times a year! Isn't this reasonable? We clearly think it is! [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] Does this call into question democracy? On the contrary, in our view, it reinforces it by mixing episode debates with thematic debates and reinforces it, above all, by bringing to plenary the richness of debates that take place in committees. It matters, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen — and I shall finish — that we do not turn off people. People who listen to this exchange of arguments and who demand from us substantive debates and not just political reactions to current issues. The people who demand from the government to fulfil their duties and demand from us, from Parliament, that we never cease to do ours. [[BE's protests.]] Let's do it, then, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! Let us continue to do so! With elevation, with sense of responsibility and with sobriety. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u120	Mrs Ana Catarina Mendes of the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u121	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to say that this is the House of Democracy and that the centrality of the political debate is here.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u122	Today, it was more Amália's house!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u123	And the centrality of the political debate is here not only with Mr Prime Minister, but with the whole government, who must give account to this House. That's why, ladies and gentlemen. Members, whom the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group proposed in 1995 that there should be monthly debates, which in 2007 defended and included in the Rules of Procedure fifteen-year debates, believe that political debate and transparency are also strengthened at this moment, until the last legislative elections, which gave a new configuration to this Parliament,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u124	All right! [[CDS-PP and CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u125	...if you are Mr. Prime Minister responding to all of you. Members, but also all Ministers and other members of the Government to take account of this House, on behalf of the House, I repeat, of the transparency and enrichment of the political debate. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Prime Minister will be present at this plenary 5 to 6 times in what were the 15-year debates, 2 times in European debates, 1 time in the debate of the State budget, 1 time in the debate of the state of the nation — 10 times, necessarily. And whenever it is understood that there is real reason to come to the plenary, Mr. Prime Minister here will be. We have demonstrated, at a first stage of emergency, that Mr. Prime Minister did not steal to be in this plenary and to make statements to all the Members. Ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u126	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u127	So it will be on the bench of the Socialist Party. This will be the case as long as there is a Prime Minister of the Socialist Party. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u128	Mr Ventura has the floor since he still has time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u129	Mr President, on my own behalf and on behalf of the European Union, I would just like to thank the Prime Minister for having had the willingness to come to the Assembly of the Republic during the state of emergency. Thank you very much. It was, in fact, fantastic. But then, if this is an example of democracy, I would like to ask the Socialist Party and the Social Democratic Party: let your Members vote without the need to vote. And let's see what results we will have in the vote on the proposal. [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u130	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed to the votes of Supplement III. We begin by voting in the specialty the articles avoked by the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u131	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u132	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u133	Mr President, this is the same issue I have raised a few moments ago, i.e. there are proposals that are made differently. There is a proposal from the NAP for Article 43. the, which is an addition to what is contained in the final text ; there is another proposal from the NAP for Article 141. the, which amends an article which is not amended ; but then—and here is doubt—in relation to Article 224. the, there is a proposal from the NAP which eliminates this article, and a proposal from the Left Block, which calls for the article contained in the final text of the Rules of Procedure to be voted on. Therefore, the way in which we vote is exactly the opposite, so I would ask the Bureau to clarify whether what will be voted is the elimination of the amendment to Article 224. the, as proposed by the NAP, or if the proposal contained in the final text of the Rules of Procedure is to be voted on, as proposed by the Left Block. The aim is the same, but the vote is exactly the opposite. The basic question is whether with respect to Article 224. the, when Members vote in a certain sense, what they will be voting on. That is what it is important that it be clarified, because the meaning of each vote is exactly the opposite and only one of them can prevail.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u134	I understood your question.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u135	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u136	Mr. Jorge Lacão also wants to make a contribution. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u137	Mr President, I recently called attention to the fact that there is no link that would allow us to have access to the final texts produced in the committees. In fact, that's what's happening. But now, I note that not even the additional script that Mr President has just referred to is acceptable in the vote script accessible to all Members. I therefore ask Mr President, after all, of the concern expressed by Mr Pedro Delgado Alves, to help us in the next vote and when we arrive at Rule 224. the Rules of Procedure, expressly tell us whether the amendment to Article 224 will be voted on. or if we are going to vote on the proposal contained in the final text of the Rules of Procedure, because otherwise we will not know what we will be doing. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u138	Mr President, I would like to help you very much to supply us with the lack of institutional information that we have at the moment.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u139	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u140	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u141	Mr President, it is in order to try to clarify, even because one of the lawyers, specifically that of Article 224. the, was also presented by the Left Block. It seems to me that reading the supplementary script should be the same for both articles — the lawyers of the Left Block and the PAN, Article 224. the, and the lawyer for the NAP, Article 225. o. With regard to Article 224. the, if the proposed amendment is approved, there is an acceptance of this proposal; it is rejected, it is deleted. The same is true of Article 225. the, lawyer for the NAP, but in this case we can do as Mr Delgado Alves suggested, in order to vote on the amendment proposal, and if rejected, it would maintain what came from the Commission, or otherwise. for our part, we have availability for any of the modalities, but strengthen the idea that our request — and it is clear — does not present any kind of misunderstanding — means, in practice, that if the proposed amendment to Article 224 is approved. the debates cease to be fifteen years and become bimonthly, from two to two months. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u142	I inform you that the final text will be forwarded to the Members. Ladies and gentlemen. We shall then vote on Article 43 ( 3 ) in the speciality. the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic No 1 / 2007 of 20 August, as set out in Article 2. the draft Regiment No 6 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the PCP, the ENP, the IL were rejected, votes against the BE, the PAN and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD, the CDS-PP and the CH.]] We shall now vote on Article 141. the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic No 1 / 2007 of 20 August, as set out in Article 2. the draft Regiment No 6 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the PCP, the ENP were rejected, votes against the PSD, the BE, the PAN, the CH, the IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the CDS-PP abstention.]] We shall proceed to the special vote on the proposal for an amendment tabled by the PS of Article 224. the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic No 1 / 2007 of 20 August, as set out in Article 2. that of the final text. I add that all texts are available on our intranet. [[Subject to vote, it was put to vote and put to vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of the PS and the PSD, votes against the BE, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the PEN, the PEN, the CH, the IL, the Non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, of 21 PS (Ana Paula Vitorino, the PCP, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the PEN, the PEN, the PEN, the IL, of the IL, the Non-registered Members of the PS (Anaa Paula Vitorino, the PBS, the PBS (Alexandre Poção, Marcos Santos Capo, Marcos Perestrello, Marcos Perestrello, María Perestrello, María Perestrello, Miguel Perestrello Marcos, Miguel Perestreello, Miguel, Miguel, Mééééééio Gugueriro, Miguel, Margareiro, Margario Fagareiro, Margaro!, Margareira, Margarida Balleira, Margarida Bals!, Margarida Bals! (M Margarier, Margarida Balseiro Balseiro Balseiro, Margareiro, Margarier, Margarier, Margarier (M Margarida Baliseiro Balseiro Bals! (M Margareiro, Margarier, Margariseiro, Margarier (M Margarida Balseiro Balseiro Balseiro Balseiro Balseiro, Margareiro, Margariseiro Bals!!!!!””””””””””””” away away away away away away away away away away away away away away away away away away away away away away away away away away away away away away away away away away away away away away away away away away away away away away away away!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! away away away away away away away away away away away!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! (M Mar Mar Mar away away away away away away away away away away]] [[It is as follows: Article 224 Debates with Government 1 — The government comes at least monthly for discussion in plenary with Members to follow up on government activity. 2 — The debate takes place in two alternative formats to be scheduled by the President of the Assembly in conjunction with the Government, listening to the Conference of Leaders, pursuant to Article 225(7): (a) In the first, on general policy, with the presence of the Prime Minister, developed in two rounds, the debate is opened by an intervention by one of the parties with parliamentary representation, alternately, in accordance with the grid referred to in Article 225(7); (b) In the second, on sectoral policy, the debate begins with an initial intervention by the Minister with responsibility for the government area on which the debate affects the Prime Minister, having the ability to be present, which follows a phase of questions from the Members developed in two rounds, making the Minister follow-up to the Secretaries and Undersecretaries of State to assist him in the performance of his duties. 3 — The Government shall also appear for debate in plenary within the framework of Portugal's follow-up to the European construction process, in accordance with its legal regime, and to be scheduled by the President of the Assembly in accordance with the above paragraph. 4 — The President shall determine, at the beginning of each legislative session and shall hear the Conference of Leaders at the meeting referred to in Article 49(3), the timetable for the discussions referred to in the previous paragraphs, ensuring the alternation of thematic areas of sectoral policy debates and their failure to repeat them at the same legislative session. 5 — The same minister cannot be indicated to attend the same legislative session or two successive debates.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u143	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u144	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u145	Mr President, it is to inform the Bureau that I am sending a statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u146	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mr Emídio Guerreiro also asks for the floor. To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u147	Mr President, it is for the same purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u148	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u149	Mr President, I would also like to speak to inform the Bureau that I will make a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u150	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr Alexandre Poço asks for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u151	Mr President, it is for the same purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u152	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u153	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u154	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u155	Mr President, it is to announce that I am going to make a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u156	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u157	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u158	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u159	Mr President, it is to announce the delivery of a statement of vote on my behalf and on behalf of the honourable Members. Deputies Tiago Estêvão Martins, Miguel Costa Matos, Olavo Câmara, Eduardo Barroco de Melo and Joana Sá Pereira.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u160	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u161	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u162	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u163	Mr President, it is to announce a statement of vote on the last vote and also, in advance, is already declared on the overall final vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u164	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs. Carla Barros has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u165	Mr President, it is to announce that I will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u166	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u167	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u168	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u169	Mr President, it is to inform the Bureau that Mr Diogo Leon and I will present a statement of vote on this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u170	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs. Isabel Moreira asks for the word for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u171	It is also to inform you that I will present a statement of vote, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u172	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mr Fernando Ruas, would you like to speak for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u173	Mr President, recently I asked for the floor, but because the microphone was off, it was not heard that I wanted to inform the Bureau that I would present a statement of vote, along with the PSD Members elected by the Viseu electoral circle.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u174	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr. Bacaler Gouveia asks for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u175	My name is Bacaler de Vasconcelos, Mr. President. I have requested the floor to inform the Bureau that I shall present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u176	I apologize, sir. Be registered. Mr Reis also asks for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u177	Mr President, it is to inform the Bureau that I shall present a statement of vote on my behalf and on behalf of Mr Rui Cristina.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u178	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We now turn to the vote required by Article 225 ( PAN ). the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u179	Mr President, are we voting on what is contained in the final replacement text, so is the proposal coming from the Commission?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u180	We shall vote on Article 225. the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic No 1 / 2007 of 20 August, as set out in Article 2. that of the final text. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PSD, PAN and Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues, votes against BE, CDS-PP, CH, IL and Non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira and PCP and ENP abstentions.]] [[In the meantime, the Member of the PAN André Silva drew the attention of the Bureau with a fingerbrush.]] Mr President, this chestnut thing is a little unpleasant. I'd appreciate it if you didn't use it. I am very attentive to what is happening in the plenary. But please use the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u181	Mr. President, I apologize for bothering you. Tradition is the use of chestnuts, but when I am presiding, I will certainly be particularly careful not to beat browns and find another way to draw attention. Mr President, it is only to inform, because I did not do so in a timely manner, that the vote on the NAP is in favour.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u182	Of course, Mr. Deputies. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's turn to page 4 of the main script. We will vote, in the specialty, the Bill No. 3 / XIV / 1. the left block...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u183	Mr President, I would even like to, but it has been rejected recently in general. Therefore, neither the speciality vote nor the overall final vote shall apply.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u184	Thank you very much. It was important that it was the Left Block itself saying that. I call on the services to activate the electronic voting system. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the following electronic votes will be taken in two stages. in the first phase, they vote on the Members who are currently present, in accordance with instructions from each parliamentary group. These Members are then absent from the Chamber so that all others, who are in their offices accompanying the work, can also come to vote. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Members, while the services organise electronic votes, we shall vote for the plenary of the indexary votes held, in the speciality, within the Commission, relating to Bills Nos 117 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Extends access to naturalization to persons born in Portuguese territory after 25 April 1974 and before the entry into force of the Nationality Law ( makes the ninth amendment to Law No 37 / 81 of 3 October) and 118 / XIV/1. a ( PCP ) — Expands the application of the principle of jus soli in the Law of Portuguese Nationality ( Ninth Amendment to Law No 37 / 81 of 3 October, which approves the Law of Nationality). I'm asking the ladies. Members if there is any amendment to the vote held at the Commission. [[Pause.]] If there are no amendments, we are good at voting in the Commission and we are reproducing them in plenary. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall then proceed to the electronic votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u185	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u186	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u187	Mr President, it is only to confirm whether what we shall vote electronically, firstly, is the final text on the Nationality Law, which is the first item on page 6 of the vote script. Is that it?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u188	Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u189	Mr President, with regard to each of the final texts, it will proceed to the overall final vote, will it not? There is some confusion on the part of the parliamentary groups. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u190	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I assume that everyone has on the screen of your computer terminals the indication of what we are going to vote on. [[Pause.]] Let us then begin by voting on the final text as a whole, presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on Bills Nos 117 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Extends access to naturalization to persons born in Portuguese territory after 25 April 1974 and before the entry into force of the Nationality Law ( makes the ninth amendment to Law No 37 / 81 of 3 October) and 118 / XIV/1. a ( PCP ) — Expands the application of the principle of jus soli in the Law of Portuguese Nationality ( Ninth Amendment to Law No 37 / 81 of 3 October, which approves the Law of Nationality). I'm asking the ladies. Members who express their sense of vote electronically and who, at the same time, stand up. I begin by asking who votes in favour. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u191	Mr President, I do not know whether I voted in accordance with the designation...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u192	But correct it, Mrs. Deputy. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Deputy, is the matter settled? It's just that I've had the same problem, and I just voted now.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u193	It's all right, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u194	I'm asking the ladies now. Members voting against doing the same. I remember that we are voting on the final text on the Nationality Law. [[Pause.]] I'm asking the ladies now. Members who refrain from doing so in the same way. [[Pause.]] Thank you, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen. We shall now vote, in a comprehensive final vote, on the final text, presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, on the Proposal for a Law No 38 / XIV / 1. a ( ALRAA ) — The ninth amendment to the Electoral Law for the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of the Azores, adopted by Decree-Law No 267 / 80 of 8 August, amended by Laws Nos 28 / 82 of 15 November, and 72 / 93 of 30 November, and Organic Laws Nos 2 / 2000 of 14 July, 2 / 2001 of 25 August, 5 / 2006 of 31 August, 2 / 2012 of 14 June, 3 / 2015 of 12 February, and 4 / 2015 of 16 March. Continuing the same procedures, I ask the honourable Members. Members who vote in favour of doing so electronically and who stand up. [[Pause.]] Now, I am asking for the same procedure on the part of the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen who vote against. [[Pause.]] Thank you, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen. I ask for the same procedure on the part of the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen who abstain. [[Pause.]] Thank you very much, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen. Thank you to the ladies. Members who have not voted to join the Chamber as these votes are still taking place. We shall now vote, in a global final vote, on the final text, presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, relating to Bill No. 226 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Amendment No 1 / 2001 to the Organic Law of 14 August 2001 which regulates the election for local authorities. Following the same procedures, I ask the honourable Members. Members who vote in favour of doing so electronically and then stand up. [[Pause.]] Thank you very much, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen. I am now asking the same procedure to the Members. Ladies and gentlemen who vote against. [[Pause.]] Thank you very much, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen. And now I am asking the same procedure for you. Ladies and gentlemen who abstain. [[Pause.]] Thank you very much, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen. The final overall vote of the final text, presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, on draft Rules of Procedure Nos 1 / XIV / 1. a ( IL) — Fourth amendment to the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic No 1 / 2007 of 20 August in order to ensure the fair and proportional representation of all political parties, 2 / XIV / 1. a ( CH) — Amendment to the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic, eliminating the qualitative difference between the political parties represented in this Assembly, 3 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Fourth amendment to the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic, 4 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Fourth amendment to the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic No 1 / 2007 of 20 August extending the rights of the sole representatives of a party and defining criteria for fixing time grids, 5 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Fourth amendment to the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic, 6 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — The fourth amendment is made to the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic No 1 / 2007 of 20 August, 7 / XIV / 1. a ( IL) — Fourth amendment to the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic No 1 / 2007 of 20 August in order to regulate the issue of votes and 8 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Concrete the third stage of amendments to the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic No 1 / 2007 of 20 August 2007 in this Parliament. Mrs. Members, this vote, which is also electronic, will be done in the same manner as the previous ones. Therefore, I ask the honourable Members. Members who vote in favour of doing so electronically and who stand up. [[Pause.]] I'm asking the ladies. Members voting against following the same procedure. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much. I ask you now to speak to me. Members who abstain from following the same procedure. [[Pause.]] I ask all of you now. Ladies and gentlemen present who lower the computer terminal they have used and who are away from the Chamber for all of you. Members who are in their offices accompanying the work and who have not yet voted, come to the Plenary Chamber in order to also vote. [[Pause.]] I'm asking the ladies. Members arriving at the Chamber using the computer terminals that are lifted—only the terminals that are raised. [[Pause.]] Before we resume the vote, I give the floor to Mrs Sonia Fertuzinhos, who asked her to make an oral request. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u195	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, as I have already had the opportunity to say to the Bureau, I would like to be able to vote on a proposal for an amendment which was voted on at the time of the plenary. I couldn't do it because I didn't have the right to be in the Chamber at that time. I am referring to the proposal for an amendment to the PS on Article 224. the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic No 1 / 2007 of 20 August, as set out in Article 2. the final text of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u196	Madam Member, the fact that a Member could not have been in the Chamber at that time cannot prevent the exercise of his right. in this sense, I wonder if anyone opposes the request made by Mrs Sonia Fertuzinhos.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u197	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u198	Sir, would you like to speak for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u199	Mr President, I would like to take the floor for the same purpose as was requested by Mrs Sonia Fertuzinhos.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u200	All right, Mr. Deputies. Mr Rui Silva also asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u201	Mr President, it is for the same purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u202	All right, Mr. Deputies. Has Mrs Marta Freitas also asked for the same word?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u203	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u204	All right, Mrs. Deputy. Mrs Susana Correia also asked for the same word?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u205	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u206	All right, Mrs. Deputy. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Members recently the result of the vote on the proposal for an amendment by the PS on Article 224. the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic No 1 / 2007 of 20 August, as set out in Article 2. The final text of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees was as follows: they voted in favour of the PS and PSD, voted against the other parties, 21 PS Deputies and 5 PSD Deputies and abstained from the PS. Let us therefore add to these results the point of vote of the Members. Members who at the time were not present in the Chamber and are now present. Let's vote. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Members, the sense of vote of the parties is now equal to the one verified recently, registering more votes against PS Deputies João Paulo Pedrosa, Marta Freitas, Sonia Fertuzinhos, Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro, Carla Sousa, Susana Correia and Fernando Anastácio and PSD Deputies Álvaro Almeida and Rui Silva. Mrs. Members, as a result of the special vote on the proposal for an amendment by the PS on Article 224. the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic No 1 / 2007 of 20 August, as set out in Article 2. that of the final text of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, should therefore be added 7 votes against the PS and 2 votes against the PSD. Mrs. Members, you are therefore pleased with what was more than a right of any Member. We shall then proceed to the electronic votes that are to be completed. The gentlemen. Members, in addition to voting electronically, will also have to express their sense of vote by raising themselves. We shall begin by voting, in a global final vote, the final text, presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, concerning Bill No 117 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Extends access to naturalization to persons born in Portuguese territory after 25 April 1974 and before the entry into force of the Nationality Law ( 9 ). the amendment to Law No 37 / 81 of 3 October) and Bill No 118 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Expands the application of the principle of jus soli in the Law of Portuguese Nationality ( Ninth Amendment to Law No 37 / 81 of 3 October, which approves the Law of Nationality). Who votes in favour? [[Pause.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, using the same procedure now, I ask who votes against. [[Pause.]] Continuing the same procedure, I ask the honourable Members. Members who abstain from doing so electronically and who stand up. [[Pause.]] Thank you very much, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen. The final result was as follows: in a comprehensive final vote, the final text obtained the votes of the absolute majority of Members in office effectiveness, with 144 votes recorded in favour ( 106 PS, 1 PS, 19 BE, 10 PCP, 3 PAN, 2 PEV, 1 IL and 2 non-registered deputies Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira ), 82 votes against ( 76 PS, 5 CDS-PP and 1 CH ), and 2 abstentions ( 1 PS and 1 PS ).
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u207	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u208	You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u209	Mr President, I wanted to know whether my vote in favour was registered.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u210	Mrs. Deputy, aren't you sure? Look on your screen.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u211	It's gone.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u212	You can go back.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u213	The game was registered. That's the information I have.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u214	Thank you very much, Mrs. Deputies. Mrs. Members, with the same procedures, will proceed to the comprehensive final vote of the final text presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on the proposal of Law No 38 / XIX/1. a ( ALRAA ) — The ninth amendment to the Electoral Law for the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of the Azores, adopted by Decree-Law No 267 / 80 of 8 August, amended by Laws Nos 28 / 82 of 15 November, and 72 / 93 of 30 November, and Organic Laws Nos 2 / 2000 of 14 July, 2 / 2001 of 25 August, 5 / 2006 of 31 August, 2 / 2012 of 14 June, 3 / 2015 of 12 February, and 4 / 2015 of 16 March. The gentlemen. Members, in addition to voting electronically, will also have to express their sense of vote and stand up. Who votes in favour? [[Pause.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, using the same procedure now, I ask who votes against. [[Pause.]] With the same procedures, I ask who the ladies are. Ladies and gentlemen who abstain. [[Pause.]] Thank you very much, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen. The final result was as follows: in a comprehensive final vote, the final text obtained the votes of the absolute majority of members in effective office, with 204 votes recorded in favour ( 104 PS, 76 PS, 19 BE, 3 PAN and 2 of non-registered deputies Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira ), 1 vote against ( PS ) and 20 abstentions ( 1 PS, 10 PCP, 5 CDS-PP, 2 PEV, 1 CH and 1 IL ). We move on to the final overall vote of the final text presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on Bill No. 226 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Amendment No 1 / 2001 to the Organic Law of 14 August 2001 which regulates the election for local authorities. In accordance with the same procedures, who votes in favour? [[Pause.]] Who votes against? [[Pause.]] Who's away? [[Pause.]] Thank you very much, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen. The final result was as follows: in a comprehensive final vote the final text obtained the votes of the absolute majority of the members in effective office, with 184 votes recorded in favour ( 107 PS and 77 PS ), 31 votes against ( 19 BE, 5 CDS-PP, 3 PAN, 1 CH, 1 IL and 2 deputies not registered ( Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira ), and 12 abstentions ( 10 PCP and 2 PEN ). Mrs. Members, we will now proceed to the final overall vote of the final text, presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on draft Rules of Procedure Nos 1 / XIV / 1. a ( IL) — Fourth amendment to the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic No 1 / 2007 of 20 August in order to ensure the fair and proportional representation of all political parties, 2 / XIV / 1. a ( CH) — Amendment to the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic, eliminating the qualitative difference between the political parties represented in this Assembly, 3 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Fourth amendment to the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic, 4 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Fourth amendment to the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic No 1 / 2007 of 20 August extending the rights of the sole representatives of a party and defining criteria for fixing time grids, 5 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Fourth amendment to the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic, 6 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — The fourth amendment is made to the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic No 1 / 2007 of 20 August, 7 / XIV / 1. a ( IL) — Fourth amendment to the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic No 1 / 2007 of 20 August in order to regulate the issue of votes and 8 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Concrete the third stage of amendments to the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic No 1 / 2007 of 20 August 2007 in this Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, following the same procedures, I ask who votes in favour. [[Pause.]] Likewise, I ask who votes against. [[Pause.]] Now I ask what are the gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen who abstain. [[Pause.]] Thank you very much, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen. The final result was as follows: in the overall final vote, the final text obtained the votes of the absolute majority of the Members present, with 175 votes in favour ( 100 PS and 75 PS ) and 51 votes against ( 6 PS, 2 PS, 19 BE, 10 PCP, 5 CDS-PP, 3 PAN, 2 PEN, 1 CH, 1 IL and 2 Members not enrolled Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira ).
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u215	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u216	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u217	Mr President, it is to announce that, with regard to this last vote, I will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u218	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr. João Moura, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u219	Mr President, it is also to announce that, with regard to this last vote, I will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u220	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u221	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u222	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u223	Mr President, it is for the same purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u224	All right, get registered.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u225	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u226	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u227	Mr President, it is also for the same purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u228	Be registered. Mr Alexandre Poço, would you like to speak for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u229	Mr President, it is for the same purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u230	Be registered.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u231	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u232	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u233	Mr President, it is for the same purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u234	Be registered. Mrs. Members, summarizing, the final text, submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, concerning the Nationality Law, was approved, with 144 votes in favour, 82 votes against and 2 abstentions. The final text, submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, on the Proposal for a Law No 38 / XIV / 1. a ( ALRAA ) was adopted with 204 votes in favour, 1 against and 20 abstentions. The final text, submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on Bill No. 226 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) was also adopted, with 184 votes in favour, 31 against and 12 abstentions. Finally, the final text, submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on the various draft Rules of Procedure, was also adopted with 175 votes in favour and 51 votes against. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, after the electronic votes, the parliamentary groups will decide how they will understand the composition of the plenary, with the assurance that we must have 121 Members. Members present in the Chamber. [[Pause.]] I assume that we are all in a position to continue with the other votes. I am sure that, after this first stage, we are all much more qualified to proceed to the votes in a much faster manner.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u235	Mr President, I would suggest that you elucidate which page of the vote script we are about to see if we can guide ourselves.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u236	Sir, we're on page 9 of the script.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u237	Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u238	Mrs. Members, let us then vote on the Draft of Deliberation No 9 / XIV / 1. a ( PAR ) — Resolution No 3 - PL / 2020 of 19 June ( Extension of the normal period of operation of the Assembly of the Republic ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We will vote for draft resolution No 581 / XIV / 1. a ( PAR) — Suspension of the term of operation of the Parliamentary Investigation Committee for the State's Action in the Granting of Support in the 2017 Fire sequence in the Pinhal Interior Zone. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We will vote for draft resolution No 586 / XIV / 1. a ( PAR) — Assessment of the implementation of the state of emergency declared by the Decree of the President of the Republic No 17 -A / 2020 of 2 April 2020. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against CH and IL and abstentions from the PCP and the ENP.]] We will vote for draft resolution No 587 / XIV / 1. a ( PAR) — Assessment of the implementation of the state of emergency declared by the Decree of the President of the Republic No 20 -A / 2020 of 17 April 2020. [[Submitted to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN and Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues, votes against CH and IL and abstentions from PCP, PEV and MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We shall proceed to the overall vote on the motion for a resolution No 1 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves Decision No 3 / 2019 of the ACP-EU Committee of Ambassadors of 17 December 2019 adopting transitional measures pursuant to Article 95. paragraph 4 of the ACP-EU Partnership Agreement. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PSD, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstention of BE.]] We will vote for the Resolution Project No. 524 / XIV / 1. a (BE) — Recommends that the Government implement measures to strengthen security and assist bathers. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and IL were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the PSD abstention.]] We will vote for the Resolution Project No 538 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Measures to support assistance to bathers in the context of the current pandemic crisis caused by COVID-19. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the PCP, the ENP and the IL were rejected, votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP, the NAP, the CH and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and abstentions against BE and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We will vote for the Resolution Project No 557 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Inclusion of the traditional circus in support of the arts. [[The vote was taken in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, ENP, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, the vote against IL and the abstention of the NAP.]] Mrs Inês de Sousa Real asked for the floor. To what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u239	Mr President, to announce that I will give a vote statement on the vote we have just taken.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u240	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We will generally vote on draft resolution No 168 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Moratorium for sale or transfer of state estate in cities in housing shortage. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PSD, the CH and the IL and the CDS-PP abstention.]] We are going to vote, in general, on draft resolution No 230 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Mobilization of public housing heritage. [[The vote was taken in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstention of CH.]] We will vote for the Resolution Project No 540 / XIV / 1. a (BE) — Strengthening supply of rail transport and complementarity with road transport to ensure safety conditions. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira were adopted, votes against PS and abstentions from the CDS-PP and IL.]] We will vote for the Resolution Project No 564 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — By promoting measures to defend safety and public health in rail transport to combat the epidemic of COVID-19. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the CDS-PP were rejected in favour of BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD, CH and IL abstentions.]] We will vote for draft resolution No 541 / XIV / 1. a (BE) — By raising the layoff in the transport sector. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the CDS-PP were rejected in favour of BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD, CH and IL abstentions.]] We will vote for the Resolution Project No 565 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — At the end of the layoff scheme in public transport undertakings. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the CDS-PP were rejected in favour of BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD, CH and IL abstentions.]] We will vote for draft resolution No 473 / XIV / 1. a (BE) — Recommends that the Government take measures to mitigate the negative effects of the COVID-19 crisis on vocational education. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, BE, PCP, PEN, PEN, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD and CDS-PP abstentions.]] We will vote for the Resolution Project No 515 / XIV / 1. a (BE) — Recommends support measures for international students.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u241	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u242	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u243	Mr President, the PS made a request for the vote on this draft resolution by points, as Mr President was certainly going to announce, but we were inaccurate in our request, because we wanted it to be voted on, autonomously, paragraph 1 ( b ). That is to say, without prejudice to the fact that the vote is still required, we also asked that paragraph 1 (b) be able to be voted on autonomously.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u244	Mr. João Pinho de Almeida has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u245	Mr President, this script is very extensive, it has forced a lot of preparation and obviously an amendment of these at the moment is impossible to verify, because we do not have the diploma here and we cannot at the moment find out what our sense of vote is. If the PS insists on the request it has made, it is better to postpone the vote so that we can verify our sense of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u246	Mr Pedro Delgado Alves has the floor again.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u247	Mr. João Almeida, we were grateful that it was possible to make the request I made, asking for great apologies, because the delay was entirely ours. We appreciate the cooperation of the other parliamentary groups, if possible. Our request relates only to paragraph 1 ( b ) and the remaining vote as requested.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u248	Mr Adam Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u249	Mr President, perhaps it would be more prudent to postpone this vote. in this way, voting-CL would-be as it is now required by the PS and we would all be more comfortable.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u250	So that's how it'll be done. It seems to me that Mr Adam Silva's suggestion is sensible. Let us then proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 517 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Make recommendations to the Government of extraordinary measures to mitigate the effects of COVID-19 in higher education institutions. There is a request from the NAP to vote on points of this draft resolution. Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u251	Mr President, the NAP only requested the separate vote on point 1. As for the other points, we do not see any drawback in which they are voted together.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u252	We shall then leave this vote until later. Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u253	Mr President, if I may, with regard to this draft resolution, whose vote has now been postponed, I would like to point out that the CFP has also submitted a request for breakdown in order to vote separately on paragraphs 1 and 2 and jointly on paragraphs 3 and 4.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u254	Has this request been sent to the Bureau, Mrs Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u255	I have an indication that he's been sent.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u256	It must have been, but it hasn't arrived yet. But the request is made orally, so as it seems to me that no parliamentary group opposes, we will postpone the vote of the Draft Resolution No 517 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ). Mrs. Members, we will vote on draft resolution No 570 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends the continuation of information sessions, dissemination and debate on the evolution of the epidemiological situation of COVID-19 in Portugal. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD and CDS-PP abstentions.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 576 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government sensitize the European Union to act urgently on humanitarian cooperation in the fight against terrorism in Mozambique. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PS, PCP and ENP abstentions.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u257	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u258	You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u259	Mr President, I just wanted to announce that the Socialist Party will present a statement of vote on this bill.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u260	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares also asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u261	Mr President, I would also like to announce that the Left Block will present a statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u262	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it's registered. We now vote on Resolution Project No 161 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — potentiating tariff reduction for a strategic bet in promoting public transport. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from PSD, CDS-PP, CH and IL.]] The vote on draft resolution No 162 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — By tariff articulation and promotion of reduced transport prices in links between metropolitan areas and neighbouring intermunicipal communities. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PS and the abstention of the IL.]] We will then vote on draft resolution No 223 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends to the Government the programming of mobility and reduction of the use of the car by means of an intermodal transport plan, in particular with regard to the CP and the Port Metro. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD, CH and IL abstentions.]] We will vote for the Resolution Project No. 558 / XIV / 1. a (BE) — Recommends the extension of the provision of school meals to students receiving school social action during the summer holidays. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, in favour of BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the PSD abstention.]] We shall now proceed to the comprehensive final vote of the replacement text submitted by the Committee on Labour and Social Security on draft resolutions No 409 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Ensure that children whose parents have lost income are not excluded from day care, protecting affected families and professionals, 421 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Defines exceptional measures relating to the payment of day care during the period of influence of COVID-19 and 423 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Strengthens the protection of families with dependents enrolled in kindergartens and kindergartens and ensures the sustainability of these educational equipment. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall proceed to the comprehensive final vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on Culture and Communication on draft resolution No 136 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Expands the supply of programme services in TDT. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, BE, PCP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD, CDS-PP and CH abstentions.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u263	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u264	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u265	Mr President, I would like to announce that the PSD Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on the vote that has just taken place.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u266	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We now move on to the overall final vote of the replacement text submitted by the Committee on Labour and Social Security on draft resolutions Nos 393 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Extraordinary economic and social recovery programme for the city of Ovar for the COVID-19 pandemic, 403 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of exceptional social support and economic recovery measures for the city of Ovar concerning the epidemiological situation of the new coronavirus — COVID-19 and 413 / XIV/1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Specific support for the Ovar Council under the exceptional and temporary measures relating to the epidemiological situation of COVID-19. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, Non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PS Deputies Bruno Aragão, Cláudia Santos, Filipe Neto Brandão, Hugo Oliveira, Joana Sá Pereira and Susana Correia and PS and IL abstentions.]] The final overall vote of the final text, presented by the Committee on Agriculture and the Sea, on draft resolutions Nos 153 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — On the application of Law No 27 / 2016 of 23 August concerning official animal collection centres and prohibition of slaughter of errant animals, 224 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Monitoring and evaluation of the programme to support the sterilization of errant and pet animals and the implementation of the network of official collection centres and 247 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — The creation of a working group that promotes the monitoring of the law that determines the end of the slaughter and the creation of the national strategy for errant animals. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PS, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the PSD abstention.]] I ask whether we can then proceed to the joint vote, in general, on the overall speciality and end, of Bill No. 228 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Sets the criteria for awarding compensation in addition to the remuneration supplements that are based on the provision of work under risk, penosity and insanity conditions ( Tenth amendment to Law No 35 / 2014 of 20 June – General Public Works Act ). [[Pause.]] If there's no opposition, we're going to vote. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD, CDS-PP and IL abstentions.]] Like the previous vote, we have another PCP bill that has to be voted on in general, in specialty and in global final vote. I wonder if anyone opposes us to make a joint vote. [[Pause.]] If there is no opposition, then we shall proceed to the joint vote, in general, in the speciality and global final, of Bill No. 229 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Sets the allocation scheme and the amounts of the additions to supplements and other compensation based on the provision of work under risk, penosity and insanity conditions ( Tenth amendment to Law No 35 / 2014 of 20 June 2014 — General Public Works Act ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD, CDS-PP and IL abstentions.]] We now proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 398 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Allocation of compensation in addition to pay supplements for work performed under risk, penosity and insanity conditions ( Amendment to Law No 35 / 2014 of 20 June— General Labour Act in Public Functions ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD, CDS-PP and IL abstentions.]] We will generally vote for Bill No. 399 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Application of the risk, penosity and insanity supplement ( Amendment to Law No 35 / 2014 of 20 June 2014— General Public Works Act ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD, CDS-PP and IL abstentions.]] We now proceed to the general vote on Bill No 401 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Regulates the supplements of compensation and other royalties of risk, pesosity and insanity (Twelfth Sixth Amendment to the General Law on Public Works). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected, in favour of BE, the PCP, the PEN, the PEN, the CH, the Non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the Deputies of PS Alexandra Tavares de Moura, Eurídice Pereira, Fernando Paulo Ferreira, João Nicolau, Maria da Luz Rosinha, Pedro Cegonho, Ricardo Leone and Vera Braz and PSD, CDS-PP and IL abstentions.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u267	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u268	You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u269	Mr President, I would like to announce the presentation of a statement of vote on behalf of MPs Alexandra Tavares de Moura, Maria da Luz Rosinha, Eurídice Pereira and Vera Braz and of Members Fernando Paulo Ferreira, Pedro Cegonho, Ricardo Leone and João Nicolau.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u270	Be registered. Mrs Paula Santos also asked for the floor. To what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u271	Mr President, it is in order to announce that the CFP Parliamentary Group intends to make an oral vote on the subject of supplements of insanity, penosity and risk. It will be Mrs Diana Ferreira who will.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u272	Mr. Luís Moreira Testa also asked for the floor. To what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u273	Mr President, I would like to announce that I will present a statement of vote on the vote that has just taken place.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u274	Be registered. Mrs. Susana Correia asked for the word for what effect? Could not connect with command "%s": %s.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u275	Mr President, I would like to announce that I also join this vote statement.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u276	Be registered, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. We will generally vote for Bill No. 452 / XIV / 1. a ( CFP ) — establishes an exceptional scheme applicable to specific forms of contracts for the exploitation of buildings for trade and services in commercial centres. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, ENP and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from CDS-PP, PAN and CH.]] We will generally vote for Bill No. 464 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — establishes an exceptional non-residential lease scheme in the event of a decrease in income. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, ENP and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and CDS-PP, PAN, CH and IL.]] We will generally vote for Bill No. 469 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Exceptional non-residential income scheme for tenants and retailers affected in their activity that have seen the establishment closed or limited at the time. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from PAN and CH.]] We are now voting in general on the replacement text submitted by the National Defence Commission on the Proposal for a Law No 3 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Statute of the Old Combatant and the Lein Projects 27 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Approves the Statute of the Former Combatant and proceeds to 7. the amendment to Decree-Law No 503 / 99 of 20 November and to 1. the amendment to Law No 3 / 2009 of 13 January, 57 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Approves the Statute of the Former Combatant and extends the rights of former combatants, former military and disabled armed forces ( 7 ). the amendment to Decree-Law No 503 / 99, from 20 November to 1. the amendment of Law No 9 / 2002 from 11 February to 1. the amendment to Law No 3 / 2009 of 13 January 2009 and 1. the amendment to Decree-Law No 76 / 2018 of 11 October ), 121 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Approves the Statute of the Ancient Combatant, 180 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Approves the Statute of the Old Combatant and 193 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Approves the Statute of the Former Combatant. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PCP and ENP abstentions.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u277	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u278	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u279	Mr. President, as there was doubt regarding Bill No. 401 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) was to say that I voted in favour and associated myself with the statement of vote by Mrs Alexandra Tavares de Moura.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u280	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mrs. Members, following the request made by the CFP for a vote by the plenary in the speciality of amendments relating to the replacement text submitted by the National Defence Commission on the Proposal for a Law No 3 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) and Lein.o 27 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ), 57 / XIV / 1. a (PAN), 121 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) and 193 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ).
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u281	You're already voted!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u282	All right. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the idea is to vote on additional script IV as a whole. Right?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u283	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u284	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u285	Mr President, I am very sorry for the way I have signalled, but it has been in despair of cause, because we are actually going to switch to additional indent IV, which is a follow-up to the request for acvocacy submitted by the CFP and on which I would like to be able to intervene. In fact, on the grid of times, which in the meantime was withdrawn, we still had time available.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u286	You have two minutes, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u287	The time grid is already visible. If Mr. President gives me the floor, I shall speak now.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u288	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u289	Mr President, the CFP called for the adoption of this article under the Statute of the Former Combatant to say that it does not devalue the positive advances contained in this Statute, which was approved and contained in the replacement text approved by the Commission, meaning to bring to plenary its proposal on the vital increase of pensions and the minimum pension of dignity that we have proposed for the former combatants. That was a great expectation. The vast majority of the former combatants viewed this legislative process as a means of restoring what was proposed to them by Law No. 9 / 2002, which was not complied with, nor by the Government which passed it, nor by subsequent governments. This was an opportunity to bring justice to the former fighters. We are aware — and we have agreed — that for the lowest pensions, i.e. for the solidarity regime, there will be an increase of 7 % of their pensions per year of military service. We believe it to be positive, but it covers a small majority of the former fighters. The overwhelming majority of the former combatants will not have one hundred extras to their pension with this Statute and this corresponds to a huge frustration, which makes it impossible for us to vote in favour of this diploma in a comprehensive final vote. Therefore, we will not only abstain from the way we intend to bring the vote in plenary the vital increase of pension proposed by the CFP and the minimum pension of dignity. That is to say, a phase to ensure that, in a few years' time, no former fighter has a pension less than the national minimum wage. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u290	Mr Diogo León of the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u291	Mr President, the adoption of the Statute of the Former Combatant in this 1. the Legislative Session, even in the difficult national and international context, fulfils a truly suprapartmental objective and, if it is true that at present we are not able to follow the proposals of the PCP herevoked, it is also certain that with this Statute the Assembly of the Republic does not close the doors to the former combatants. On the contrary, it opens the doors for the future and, on the part of the Socialist Party, there is a will to re-equarating the social support taken by the former combatants in the State budget for 2021. The truth is that the former combatants have never had such a favorable legislative framework, which does not only affect the creation of an isolated measure or sectorial benefit, but rather a global framework that defines the former combatants, recognizes them, supports them and honours them, as they have honored us with the services provided to the homeland. Continuing work for the dignity of the former combatants is a commitment of the Socialist Party and we are sure that this Statute is a strong, firm and positive step in the right way. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u292	Mr. André Ventura has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u293	Mr President, it is only to note, following Mr António Filipe's intervention, that this Statute does indeed make a fundamental mistake and a fundamental mistake in not making updates to thousands of former combatants, who will thus be left without any update. It is therefore not true that the Assembly of the Republic has opened its doors today to the former combatants. On the contrary, he closed them again.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u294	With no further inscriptions, we are voting in particular on the proposals for amending the CFP to Articles 7. it's 8. that of the replacement text. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD and votes in favour of BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected.]] [[They were as follows: Article 7 Lifelong pension supplement To the former combatants receiving special pension supplement or lifelong pension supplement provided for in Laws Nos 9/2002 of 11 February and 3/2009 of 13 January, a vital pension supplement of 50 euro per month shall be allocated. Article 8 Minimum pension of dignity 1 — Former combatants whose pensions are less than the national minimum wage shall have their pensions recalculated in order to achieve that value. 2 — The calculation of pensions provided for in the previous paragraph shall be carried out in a phased manner as follows: (a) One year after the entry into force of this Act shall correspond to 75% of the national minimum wage; (b) For each of the following years, it shall have an increase of 5% until the national minimum wage is reached.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u295	Mrs. Members, we shall proceed to the vote on the assumption by the plenary of the indexary votes held in the speciality in the Commission. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We shall move on to the overall final vote of the replacement text. [[We voted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PCP, ENP and CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u296	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u297	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u298	Mr President, it is only to announce that in the end the CDS will make an oral vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u299	Be registered. Mr Ventura asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u300	Mr President, it is to inform that the arrival will deliver a written statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u301	Be registered.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u302	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u303	You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u304	Mr President, it is to inform that the Social Democratic Party will make an oral vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u305	Be registered. Mr António Filipe asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u306	Mr President, it is to announce that the CFP will deliver a written statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u307	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We now move on to the final overall vote of the final text presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on Bill No 187 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Strengthens the penal and procedural framework for crimes against the sexual freedom and self-determination of minors, complying with Directive No 2011 / 93 / EU, of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 December 2011, and establishes automatic information and blocking duties for sites containing child pornography or related material. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] It was a good vote unanimously! Mr. José Magalhães asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u308	Mr President, it is to be announced that you will enter the Bureau with a vote signed by me and Mr Pedro Delgado Alves on the last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u309	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. The final overall vote of the final text, presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, on Decree-Law No 19 / 2020 of 30 April, establishes a temporary and exceptional regime of support for humanitarian firefighters associations in the context of the COVID-19 disease pandemic [ Parliamentary Assessments No 11 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) and 18 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) ]. [[We voted in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against the PS.]] Mr Ascenso Simões asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u310	Mr President, it is to indicate that I will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u311	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We shall proceed to the comprehensive final vote of the final text, submitted by the Committee on Agriculture and the Sea, on Bills Nos 199 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Sixth amendment to Decree-Law No 96 / 89 of 28 March, which establishes the International Register of Madeira Ships ( MAR ) and 221 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — The ninth amendment to Decree-Law No 96/89 of 28 March establishing the International Register of Madeira Ships. [[Subject to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of PS, PSD and CDS-PP, votes against BE and abstentions from PCP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira.]] Let us now vote on the request submitted by the CFP, requesting the general vote, speciality and overall end of the Bill No 205 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — The first amendment is made to Decree-Law No 3 / 2010 of 5 January, extending the prohibition on the collection of charges by the provision of payment services and carrying out operations to transactions carried out through digital applications. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Let us then proceed to the general vote on draft Law No 205 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstention of CH.]] We proceed to the general vote of Bill No 139 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Consecrates the prohibition on the collection of charges by credit institutions in transactions carried out on electronic platforms operated by third parties ( first amendment to Decree-Law No 3 / 2010 of 5 January ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the IL were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the PEV and the non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PS and CH abstentions.]] The final text presented by the Committee on Budgets and Finance on Bills Nos 139 / XIV / 1 is followed. a ( BE ) — Consecrates the prohibition on the collection of charges by credit institutions in transactions carried out on electronic platforms operated by third parties ( first amendment to Decree-Law No 3 / 2010 of 5 January ) and 213 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — adopts standards for the protection of the consumer of financial services for housing credit, credit for consumption and use of electronic platforms operated by third parties. We begin by voting the assumption, by the plenary, of the indexary vote of Bill No 139 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ), held at Commission headquarters, together with the vote on the speciality of Bill 213 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ), which gave rise to the Commission's final text. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, the vote against IL and the abstention of CH.]] [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u312	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u313	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u314	Mr President, since this final text includes two initiatives, one of which is Bill No 139 / XIV / 1. a (BE) for which the PS generally abstained, we would like, in this vote, to change our sense of vote and to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u315	All right, Mrs. Deputy. The table was just discussing that. Thus, Bill No. 139 / XIV / 1. a (BE) is approved, in general, as well as the final text submitted by the Committee on Budgets and Finance, is approved in the specialty.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u316	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u317	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u318	Mr President, was the last vote we took by the plenary of the indexary votes held in the Commission or was it already the overall final vote?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u319	It was the vote on the assumption by the plenary of the indexary votes held at the Commission building, Mr. Let us now proceed to the overall final vote of the final text, presented by the Committee on Budget and Finance on Bills Nos 139 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Consecrates the prohibition on the collection of charges by credit institutions in transactions carried out on electronic platforms operated by third parties ( First amendment to Decree-Law No 3 / 2010 of 5 January ) and 213 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — adopts standards for the protection of the consumer of financial services for housing credit, credit for consumption and use of electronic platforms operated by third parties. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the IL and the abstention from the CH.]] Mr. João Piinho de Almeida, you asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u320	Mr President, it is to be announced that the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group will present a written statement of vote on the subject contained in the last three votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u321	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We move on to the final overall vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on Budgets and Finance on Bills Nos 137 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Establish the obligation and free issue of the distracting and declaration of settlement of the loan, eliminates fees charged by the processing of credit benefits, also prohibiting credit institutions from unilaterally modifying the contractual conditions of the credits granted to consumption ( fourth amendment to Decree-Law No 133 / 2009 of 2 June ), 138 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Establish the obligation and free issue of the asset and the declaration of settlement of the loan, eliminates fees charged by the processing of credit benefits, also prohibiting credit institutions from unilaterally modifying the contractual conditions of the claims granted to housing ( third amendment to Decree-Law No 74 -A / 2017 of 23 June ), 213 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — adopts consumer protection standards for housing credit financial services, consumer credit and use of electronic platforms operated by third parties, 209 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Limits the collection of any commissions, expenses or charges in cases where a customer service is not effectively provided by credit institutions ( first amendment to Law No 66 / 2015 of 6 July ) and 217 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Restricts the collection of bank fees by amending Decree-Law No 133 / 2009 of 2 June 2009 and the third amendment to Decree-Law No 74 -A / 2017 of 23 June 2017. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, BE, PCP, PAN, ENP and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, the vote against IL and the abstentions from PSD, CDS-PP and CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u322	Mr. João Piinho de Almeida, ask again for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u323	Mr President, it is to be announced that the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group will present a written statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u324	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. The final overall vote of the final text, presented by the Committee on Budget and Finance, on the Proposal for a Law No 7 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Harmonizes and simplifies certain rules in the system of value added tax in intra-Community trade by transposing Directives ( EU ) 2018 / 1910 and 2019 / 475. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PSD, PAN, CH and IL and abstained from BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We shall vote, in a global final vote, on the final text submitted by the Committee on Budgets and Finance, on the Proposal for a Law No 12 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Transposing Directive ( EU ) 2017 / 828 on the rights of listed shareholders with regard to their long-term involvement. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PSD, PAN and IL and with abstentions from BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We now proceed to the overall final vote on the final text by the Committee on Budget and Finance on the Proposal for a Law No 40 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Transposing Articles 2. o is 3. that of Directive ( EU ) 2017 / 2455 and Directive ( EU ) 2019 / 1995 by amending the VAT Code, the VAT regime in intra-Community transactions and additional legislation relating to this tax in the context of the processing of electronic commerce. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of PS and with abstentions from PS, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We move on to the final overall vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on Budgets and Finance on the Proposal for a Law No 48 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Establishs the tax system of competition organizers UEFA Champions League 2019 / 2020 Finals and extends the tax exemption on value added in intra-Community shipments and acquisitions of goods necessary for the fight against COVID-19 disease. [[Subject to the vote, votes against BE, PAN, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD, PCP, CDS-PP, PEV and IL abstained.]] We shall proceed to the comprehensive final vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on Budget and Finance on the Proposal for a Law No 16 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Transposing Directive ( EU ) 2018 / 843, of the European Parliament and of the Council of 30 May 2018 on the prevention of the use of the financial system for the purpose of money laundering or terrorist financing and Directive ( EU ) 2018 / 1673 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 October 2018 on the fight against money laundering through criminal law. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PAN, the CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the PSD, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the ENP and the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u325	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u326	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u327	Mr President, it is to be announced that the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group will present a written statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u328	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs. Members, there is some objection to the general and general vote on draft Law No 427 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Does it create an exceptional and temporary scheme for the suspension of the employment contract for non-pocket payment? [[Pause.]] No objection, let's vote. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP, CH and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and other non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues.]] Mrs. Members, following the request made by the PAN for a vote by the plenary on the speciality of amendments relating to the final text, submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, on the Proposal for a Law No 46 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Defines the objectives, priorities and guidelines for criminal policy for the biennium 2020 - 2022. Since this request has already been voted on and approved, we will continue.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u329	I call on you, Mr President, to make an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u330	You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u331	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, on a proposal from the PSD, incomprehensiblely, have been removed from the list of priority prevention crimes the trafficking of protected species. In addition to the international commitments which Portugal has made to combat trafficking in wild species, notably CITES (the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora), of which Portugal is part, there are, in fact, several species threatened in Portugal that are often in danger, either by poisoning or by illegal capture, among other factors. Some very clear examples are the mexican catch, in which normally 100 kg corresponds to an economic profit of more than 720 000 € on the international market, or that of the seahorses of Ria Formosa, whose species is so threatened that only 10 % of that species remains. Recently, even in October 2019, ASAE ( Food and Economic Security Authority ) dismantled illegal traffic networks and therefore incomprehensible the removal of these crimes from this list. More: we bring here again the NAP proposal that aims to include crimes against pets in the list of crime of prevention and priority research. The recent case of Santo Tirso reminds us, in fact, of the many cases in Portugal of ill-treatment and abandonment of animals, to which we cannot remain clearly indifferent. Since 2017 there have been complaints of ill-treatment in relation to this case— 2017! Now imagine that if you are not even on this priority list, we will continue to ignore the deep suffering to which you are subjected. And we cannot also ignore the link between violence against people and animals, especially in the context of child abuse and domestic violence, as well as the outside examples, such as that of the FBI ( Federal Bureau of Investigation), which since 2016 included the abuse of animals on the list of serious crimes, precisely by recognizing that cruelty to animals is an indicator of criminal violence.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u332	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us proceed with the votes. I wonder if we can vote jointly on Article 3 ( a ). Article 4 ( n) and ( u ). that of the final text. [[Pause.]] In the face of opposition, we shall begin by voting on the proposal for an amendment tabled by the NAP under Article 3 ( a ). that of the final text. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, PCP, CDS-PP and ENP were rejected, votes against BE, PAN and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from CH and IL were rejected.]] [[(a) prevent, suppress and reduce violent, serious and highly organized crime, including murder, offensive to serious physical integrity, domestic, family violence and in the context of close relations, crimes against pets, crimes against freedom and sexual self-determination, theft, rural fire, corruption, trafficking in influence, cybercrime, road crime, bleaching, arms crimes, terrorism and its financing, terrorist organizations and the criminal association dedicated to trafficking in persons or arms or aid to illegal immigration and crimes against the public authority committed in the context of an emergency or civil protection;]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u333	We proceed with the special vote on the proposed amendments to Article 4 ( n) and ( u ). that of the final text.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u334	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u335	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u336	Mr President, under the penalty of applying to this vote the same as I asked at another time to apply to another vote, we, CDS, have a differentiated vote for both point ( u ) and point ( n ). There was no way of saying before, just now.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u337	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall then vote in the speciality on the proposal for an amendment tabled by the NAP under Article 4 ( n ). that of the final text. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, PCP and ENP were rejected, votes against BE, CDS-PP, PAN, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and IL abstention.]] [[(n) the crime of forest fire, crimes against the environment and trafficking in protected species;]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u338	We shall, in particular, vote on the proposal for an amendment tabled by the NAP under Article 4 ( u ). that of the final text. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, PCP, CDS-PP, ENP and CH were rejected, votes against BE, PAN and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and IL abstention.]] [[It was as follows: (u) crimes against pets.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u339	The special vote is followed by the amendment tabled by the PAN of Article 5 ( t ). that of the final text. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, PCP, CDS-PP and ENP were rejected, votes against BE, PAN and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from CH and IL were rejected.]] [[It was as follows: Article 5 [...] (t) Crimes against pet animals.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u340	We shall vote, in a comprehensive final vote, on the final text submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on the Proposal for a Law No 46 / XI / 1. a ( GOV ) — Defines the objectives, priorities and guidelines for criminal policy for the biennium 2020 - 2022. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of the PS and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues, votes against the BE, the PCP, the ENP, the CH and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the PSD, the CDS-PP, the PAN and the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u341	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u342	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u343	Mr President, to announce that I will give a vote statement on the subject we have just voted on.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u344	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We shall proceed to the comprehensive final vote of the final text presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on Bill No 352 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Strengthen protection measures for victims of domestic violence ( sixth amendment to Law No 112 / 2009 of 16 September ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The following are the requests submitted by BE, the CFP and the NAP, for the fuller, for the vote on amendments to the final text, submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, on Bill No. 459 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Fifth amendment to Law No 43 / 90 of 10 August ( Exercise of the Right to Petition ). Since these requirements have already been approved, we will move on to the interventions. Mr. José Manuel Pureza has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u345	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Left Block advocates for voting in plenary the amendment, approved by the PS and the PSD, to the minimum number of citizens subscribed to a petition, so that it is mandatory to be approved in plenary. by increasing this range from 4000 to 10 000, the two central bloc parties give a clear signal of devaluation of the citizen initiative to Parliament. The question arises: has the rule of 4000 subscribers to date as a fascia for the debate of a petition in plenary brought any problems of congestion on the parliamentary agenda? The clear answer is: no! Were there charters, scavengers, pranks knocking at the door of the plenary? No, there wasn't! Is time wasted on the debate of the laws? No, you didn't steal! With this amendment, the objective of PS and PSD is therefore only one: to make the debate of petitions difficult, to deter the use of this democratic instrument. Then they will come with the usual discourse that it is necessary to find ways to strengthen the link between voters and electors. But it is so flagrant the contradiction between this speech and this proposal that we can only find the following sentence from the well-known sketch of the Fedorent Cat : « what the central block wants me to know». [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u346	Mr António Filipe of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u347	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have made this appeal to say that we consider a serious step backwards from the point of view of the democratic participation and the connection of the Assembly of the Republic to the citizens, that the requirement of 4000 signatures for a petition to be accepted in plenary is to 10 000. We consider it unacceptable, so we have made this appeal. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u348	Mr José Luís Ferreira of the ENP now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u349	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, this PSD proposal, which has also had the support of the PS, has a very clear objective, which is to make it difficult to discuss in plenary the petitions promoted by the citizens. In fact, the PSD does not hide its motivation, as we can, moreover, see in the explanatory statement of this bill. It says the PSD that today, in the face of new technologies and facilitation in the collection of signatures, 4000 signatures cannot be considered a large number. But what we think is that 4000 is always 4000, regardless of how difficult or easy it is to arrange signatures. And here we have the support of mathematics, it seems to us. On the other hand, the Greens greatly appreciate this important instrument of our democracy, which, if we want to be involved, is the petition, and any attempt to hinder citizens' access to the mechanisms that allow them to bring matters that they consider important for discussion in the plenary of the Assembly of the Republic represents a strong step back on the path that this House has been building to empower and allow citizens to participate in political life. For the Greens, living in democracy cannot be exhausted only in the act of voting every four years. Living in democracy means much more, it means actively participating in public life, in the management of the public thing, every day. Therefore, we do not subscribe to this strange claim of PSD, and apparently also of PS, which we consider absolutely unacceptable, without any sense and even counter-current, to say no more. In fact, in our view, what is required is the opposite: to strengthen mechanisms that can promote and enhance participatory democracy and not to coerce or hinder citizens' participation in public life management or even to denounce problems that they consider important, as the PSD and PS want. In conclusion, I just want to say that, despite the PSD and PS, they greatly value the citizens' initiative whenever we discuss petitions here, and even enhance participatory democracy, now these same parties, again in the central bloc, want to make it difficult for citizens to access this important instrument of our democracy which is the petition.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u350	Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u351	Mr President, it is only to make an appeal to the Bureau to request the distribution of the list of petitions entered in the XIV Legislation. None of them were discussed in plenary.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u352	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u353	Mr President, the NAP has also invoked this rule. So we also have an intervention to do.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u354	Mrs. Member, why didn't you sign up?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u355	Mr President, when there is a lawyer and a vote on the application, we have the right to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u356	Mrs. Deputy, you had to sign up. But you have the word. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u357	It's not me speaking, it's Mrs. Bebiana Cunha.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u358	Please, Mrs Bebiana Cunha.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u359	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members today, due to an autocratic pulse or a whim of the PSD, we are faced with an unprecedented backwardness in the right to petition. It is the roll law for its discussion in the plenary. We therefore disagree with this PSD proposal and we are surprised that the Socialist Party is covering it, essentially because petitions, we have no doubt, are an instrument of participatory democracy. Restricting the terms of your discussion is closing the plenary to citizens and citizens. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, you now have the opportunity to decide to keep this plenary open to participatory democracy or to refer the subjects that citizens and citizens want to bring this plenary to a committee room. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u360	Let's move on to the sixth supplementary vote script. I wonder if there is any objection to the joint vote on the various proposals. [[Pause.]] In any event, we shall begin by voting on the proposal for an amendment tabled by the PS in Article 24 ( a ) ( 1 ). the Act No 43 / 90 of 10 August, as set out in Article 2. that of the final text. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PS and PSD were adopted against BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL, Non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and 3 PS (Ascense Simões, Francisco Rocha and Porfirio Silva).]] [[(a) be subscribed by more than 10 000 citizens;’;]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u361	We shall, in particular, vote on the proposal submitted by the NAP to eliminate Article 19 ( 1 ( b ). the Act No 43 / 90 of 10 August, as set out in Article 2. the final text submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees concerning the Bill No. 459 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Fifth amendment to Law No 43 / 90 of 10 August ( Exercise of the Right to Petition ). [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PS and PSD were adopted against BE, PCP, PAN, ENP, Non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and 3 PS (Ascense Simões, Francisco Rocha and Porfirio Silva) and CDS-PP, CH and IL abstentions.]] We now have to vote on Article 24 ( 5, 6, 7 and 8 ). the same law.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u362	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u363	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u364	Mr President, I just wanted to say that, in view of the previous vote, that vote is no longer meaningful. Therefore, this proposal is to withdraw.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u365	The proposal submitted by the CFP is withdrawn and we shall then proceed to the vote on the proposal by the NAP to delete Article 3. the final text submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees concerning the Bill No. 459 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Fifth amendment to Law No 43 / 90 of 10 August ( Exercise of the Right to Petition ).
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u366	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u367	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u368	Mr President, I think we have the problem of formulating the proposal. I ask you to give us just one second to be able to examine it, because it is those cases where elimination or vote again leads to doubt. So, as there were two sequentials, we wanted to analyze it, because we certainly cannot all be voting in the same direction when it is contradictory. I ask you only for a second, Mr President, please. [[Pause.]] Well, Mr President, if it is clear that we are voting on Article 3. that of the final text and if we take that principle we can continue with the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u369	Thank you very much, Mr. Let us then vote on the proposal from the NAP to delete Article 3. the final text constant. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PS and PSD were adopted against BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL, Non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and 3 PS (Ascense Simões, Francisco Rocha and Porfirio Silva).]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we shall then proceed to the overall final vote of the final text presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on Bill No 459 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Fifth amendment to Law No 43 / 90 of 10 August ( Exercise of the Right to Petition ). [[Submitted to the vote, it was approved, with votes in favour of PS and PSD and votes against BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL, non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PS deputy Ana Paula Vitorino.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for your cooperation. I will now be replaced because, as you will understand, I am not only tired, but also in a « piping»! Thank you very much and until tomorrow. [[Meanwhile, Vice President José Manuel Pureza took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u370	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u371	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u372	Mr. President, first of all, I greet you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u373	Thank you very much, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u374	Mr President, that is to say that the PSD will present an oral vote on this last item that we have just voted on.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u375	What will therefore be at the end of the vote. Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We will resume the votes, moving to the overall final vote of the final text, presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, on Bill No. 466 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Strengthens the rights of participation in the legislative initiatives of citizens by amending Law No 17 / 2003 of 4 June 2003. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PAN, IL and non-registered MP Cristina Rodrigues and PCP, CDS-PP, PEV, CH and MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We move on to the general vote of Bill No. 211 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Review the sanctioning regime applicable to crimes against animals. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, PCP, CDS-PP and ENP were rejected, votes against BE, PAN and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from CH and IL were rejected.]] The result of the vote assumes that the votes in the special and comprehensive final vote are adversely affected.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u376	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u377	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u378	Mr President, it is only to inform us that we are going to deliver a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u379	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u380	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u381	Mr President, this is about the next vote. We will then vote for a replacement text, submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on the following diplomas identified in the script : Bill No 112 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) - 50. the amendment to the Criminal Code, criminalizing the conduct of those who kill, for no legitimate reason, pet, 183 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Strengthens the sanctioning regime applicable to crimes against pet animals and extends protection to vertebrate sensitive animals by amending the Penal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure, 202 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Proceeds to 50. the amendment to the Penal Code, revising the sanctioning regime applicable to pet animals, and as set out in the vote script, and 211 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Review the sanctioning regime applicable to crimes against animals. Now, we have generally just rejected this last bill. We know that the issue has already been raised and that there has been an understanding, or at least at times when it was previously understood that, although the diploma has generally been rejected, it may nevertheless be included in the list of texts incorporating the replacement text. This is not the understanding of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group and, in this sense, we ask the Bureau to remove this reference to the bill that has just been dropped and which, consequently, cannot be voted on again, inserted in a replacement text that can only pour on the three bills: that of the PSD, that of the PAN and that of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u382	Thank you very much, Mr. The honourable Member said exactly what there is to say on this subject. In fact, there is a past practice in which this situation has been welcomed by the Bureau and, therefore, what is at stake is clearly a discussion that must be done not now at the Bureau, because we do not have this condition, but precisely at the Conference of Leaders, because I believe that is the appropriate context for making this clarification, because, as I said, this practice has already been accepted in other circumstances. I do not want to waste much time on this issue, but there are actually favorable arguments and other unfavorable ones. I do not want to take a position on that right now. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u383	Mr President, understanding that there have been divergent senses, there is now a possibility of healing, which is to appeal to the plenary of the Bureau's decision and so do we, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u384	So we will vote on this request from the Socialist Party, which consists in extracting from the reference of the replacement text a bill that was the object of a negative vote by the plenary, therefore, was the object of rejection.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u385	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u386	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u387	Mr President, it is only to ask for clarification. In line with what Mr Delgado Alves said, I think, however, that the understanding he has had is that the resources on the agenda have to be presented before the start of the debate on the agenda.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u388	Mr President, this is not exactly an action on the agenda, it is an action on this very concrete situation which has now emerged. So, if you agree, we would now vote on this request from the Socialist Party to resolve this specific case. I think it's clear what we're going to vote for. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PS, the PCP, the ENP, the CH, the IL and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PSD and the non-registered MP Cristina Rodrigues and abstains from the BE of the CDS-PP and the PAN.]] The application was approved and as such was withdrawn from the heading of the replacement text the reference to the bill of the Left Block, which had been rejected in the vote in general. Let us now vote, in general, on this replacement text, presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, concerning the following diplomas identified in the script : Bills No 112 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) - 50. the amendment to the Criminal Code, criminalizing the conduct of those who kill, for no legitimate reason, pet, 183 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Strengthens the sanctioning regime applicable to crimes against pet animals and extends protection to vertebrate sensitive animals by amending the Penal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure, and 202 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Proceeds to 50. the amendment to the Penal Code, revising the sanctioning regime applicable to pet animals. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u389	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u390	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u391	Mr President, it is to announce that I will make an oral vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u392	It will be listed in the set of oral explanations of vote. We shall continue, with the vote on the final text submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, in the assumption by the plenary of the indexary votes held in the speciality in the Commission on the last three bills previously voted in general. If we agree together, we shall make the overall final vote of the said replacement text. [[Pause.]] If there is no objection, we shall vote on it, in the expertise and in the overall final vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u393	We continue, with the final overall vote of the final text, presented by the Committee on Education, Science, Youth and Sport, on draft Law No 424 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Expiry time limits for the employment contracts of workers of institutions of science, technology and higher education. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira were adopted, votes against PS and abstentions from the CDS-PP and IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u394	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u395	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u396	Mr President, it is to announce that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u397	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u398	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u399	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u400	Mr President, it is for the same purpose, on behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u401	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u402	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u403	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u404	Mr President, it is to announce that the NAP will make an oral vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u405	It will also be listed in the set of oral explanations of vote, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let us turn to page 46 of our main vote script. We shall proceed to the comprehensive final vote of the final text presented by the Committee on Public Administration, Administrative Modernisation, Decentralisation and Local Power on Parliamentary Assessments Nos 21 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ), 22 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) and 23 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ), relating to Decree-Law No 27 / 2020 of 17 June— Alter the organic of the coordination and regional development committees. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PS and PSD were adopted against BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and IL abstention.]] We move on to the final overall vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on Economics, Innovation, Public Works and Housing on the Proposal for a Law No 42 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Alter the exceptional regime for situations of late payment of income in non-residential lease contracts under the COVID-19 disease pandemic. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, PAN and Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and Abstaining from BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PEV, CH, IL and MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] The vote on Bill No. 412 / XIV / 1. a ( CFP ) — Measures to promote the disposal of fish from artisanal fishing — local and coastal — and to create a simplified public regime for the acquisition, distribution and exploitation of low-value fish in lot. I wonder if anyone is opposed to the fact that we are voting in a bloc, in general, on the assumption by the plenary of the indexary votes held in the committee, and the overall final vote on this initiative. [[Pause.]] There's no objection, that's how we do it. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, ENP, CH and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PAN and IL and abstentions from the CDS-PP and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues.]] We move on to the overall final vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on Agriculture and the Sea on the Proposal for a Law No 179 / XIII / 4. a ( ALRAA ) — Altera to Law No 17 / 2014 of 10 April establishing the basis for the policy of planning and management of the national maritime area. [[Submitted to the vote, it was approved, with votes in favour of PS, PAN, IL and 5 PSD (António Ventura, Paulo Neves, Paulo Moniz, Sara Madruga da Costa and Sergio Marques), votes against non-registered deputy Cristina Rodrigues and 12 PS (Ana Paula Vitorino, Ascension Simões, Bacelar de Vasconcelos, Bruno Aragon, Hugo Oliveira, Jorge Lacão, José Magalhães, Luís Capoulas Santos, Marcos Perestrello, Pedro Cegonho, Rosário Gambôa and Susana Correia) and abstentions from PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PEV, CH, from unregistered Vice-President Joacin Katar Moreira and from PS deputy Filipe Neto Brandão.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u406	Mr President, I beg your pardon, will you allow me to speak?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u407	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u408	Mr President, it is only to inform me that I have already made a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u409	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs. Ana Paula Vitorino has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u410	Mr. President, I want to inform you that you and me. Members Ascenso Simões, Jorge Lacão, Marcos Perestrello, Pedro Bacelar de Vasconcelos, Pedro Cegonho, Sérgio Sousa Pinto, José Magalhães, Rosário Gambôa, Alexandre Quintanilla, Jorge Gomes, Luís Capoulas Santos, Bruno Aragon, António Gameiro, Ricardo Pinheiro and Mara Lagriminha Coelho we will present a written vote statement.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u411	It is duly registered, Mrs. Mrs Emília Cerqueira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u412	Mr President, I would also like to inform you that we shall proceed with the presentation of a statement of vote on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u413	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u414	Mr President, I would like to announce that I shall, on my own behalf, give a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u415	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr António Lima Costa, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u416	Mr President, I would like to say that, like what we have done at the general vote, I and Mr Cristovão Norte will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u417	It is duly registered, Mr. We shall continue with the votes. We begin by voting, in general, the Bill No 37 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Alter to the Budget Framework Act. [[Subject to the vote, the votes against the BE, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the PEN, the CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the PSD were adopted.]] We shall proceed to the vote on the assumption by the plenary of the indexary votes held, in particular in the Committee on Budgets and Finance, of the same bill. I wonder if anyone is pointing to any amendment to the indexary vote. [[Pause.]] Since there is no request for a word, those indexary votes shall be taken by the plenary. The final overall vote of the final text, presented by the Committee on Budget and Finance, on the Bill No 37 / XIV / 1, is then followed. a ( GOV ) — Alter to the Budget Framework Act. [[Subject to the vote, the votes against the BE, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the PEN, the CH, the IL and the non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the PSD were approved.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u418	Mr President, I beg your pardon, will you allow me to speak?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u419	Please, Mr. João Almeida.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u420	Mr President, I would just like to announce, on behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, that we are going to make a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u421	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr Afonso Oliveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u422	Mr President, I would also like to inform you on behalf of the PSD that we are going to make a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u423	It is also registered, Mr. Mrs. Members, there is a request in the vote script made by BE for a proposal for an amendment to the final text tabled by the Committee on Budgets and Finance on draft Law No 216 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Sixth amendment to Decree-Law No 27 - C / 2000 of 10 March, which creates the system of access to minimum banking services, request, which was approved in the framework of the joint vote of all the requests for lawyers we made at the beginning of the voting, which refers us to the Supplementary Screen VII. We shall therefore proceed to the debate, for which Mrs Mariana Mortágua, of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u424	Mr. President and Mr. Members, at the beginning of the year, the Left Block brought to the Assembly of the Republic a set of diplomas to curb abuses in the collection of bank fees. We would like to see progress in this area, in view of what existed in the previous law—they have already been voted on and ratified here—in particular in access to platforms such as MB Way, but we also want to record withdrawals from initial proposals, both PS and PSD. Despite large declarations of intent to protect bank customers from the abuse of bank fees, the fact is that both parties have yielded to the pressures of the bank during this process and, therefore, have limited the exemption of recovery commission in the provision of credits only to new contracts, allowing the current contracts to continue to pay this commission. And in the case of the PSD project, as regards Article 3. the, the PSD limits access to services provided by digital platforms, in the case of minimum banking services, in relation to what was created in the general law. In other words, the right of any citizen to have a set of free bank transfers in MB Way and then to the citizens of the minimum banking services,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u425	Mrs. Deputy, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u426	I will finish, Mr. President. As I was saying, the right of any citizen to have a set of free bank transfers on MB Way and then to the citizens of the minimum banking services was created a more restrictive service than that which exists for the general public. We therefore wanted to give the plenary the opportunity to change this injustice.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u427	Mr Duarte Alves of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u428	Mr. President and Mr. Members, who arrived at the end of the legislative procedure on banking committees, what was approved was not the proposal of the CFP, which was to prohibit the collection of fees on transfers made through digital platforms, because we consider that it does not make sense that a transfer that is made in Multibank is exempt and whether it is carried out on an online platform or in homebanking has a fee — this was our proposal, which has been rejected — but the collection limitation of these fees on the part of digital platforms, such as MB Way, up to €30 and up to 25 transfers per month, that is, in these cases, there is a limitation that no fees can be charged. We agree with the PSD proposal that extended access to these transfers, on digital platforms, to bank minimum service accounts, but we do not agree with the limitation that PSD introduces, which is that, for general customers, there is a limit of 30 free transfers per month and for bank minimum service customers there is a limit of only 5 transfers per month, strongly restricting the bank minimum service account. In the view of the CFP, the path should be to extend the bank minimum service account either in the services associated with it or also in the access to those accounts itself. In fact, this was the proposal we put forward here, which was rejected by PS, PSD and CDS, in order to ensure that all Portuguese could have at least one bank-minimum service account, and not more than one. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u429	Mr Adam Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u430	Mr President, I would like to inform you that the PSD registers Mr Carlos Silva in order to intervene, benefiting from a one-minute motion handed over by Mrs Cristina Rodrigues, making the total of 1 minute and 5 seconds.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u431	Mr President, that is what is called a huge negotiating power with the Bureau. [[Laughing.]] Mr. Carlos Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u432	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say to Mrs Mariana Mortágua that, as the old saying states, "who is not ashamed, everyone is yours." The Left Block accuses the PSD of restricting the number of movements on electronic platforms for minimum banking services — nothing more insulting and, I would say, politically dishonest. How many free movements did the Left Block propose in the minimum banking services?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u433	All of them!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u434	Zero! Zero! It wasn't this PSD proposal and the minimum banking services...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u435	Don't say nonsense!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u436	...they wouldn't have access to electronic platforms... [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]] ...and therefore they would not have access to this feature. It is clear that five free movements in an account that has the annual cost of 5 € is a good advance. It is not because a scheme has been approved for bank accounts in general that minimum banking services have access to electronic platforms and therefore are not for maximum services, in the case of minimum services, there would have to be a differentiation.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u437	Mr. Deputy, you want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u438	But it is a great advance that there are five free movements per month in bank service accounts. [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u439	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Bureau no longer registers for interventions on this subject, so... [[Continuation of protests by the member of BE Mariana Mortagua and PSD counterprotests.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members with no further entries will then vote on the proposal submitted by the PSD, as amended by Article 3 ( 2 ). the Decree-Law No 27 - C / 2000 of 10 March, as set out in Article 2. the final text, submitted by the Committee on Budgets and Finance, concerning Bill No. 216 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Sixth amendment to Decree-Law No 27 - C / 2000 of 10 March, which creates the system of access to minimum banking services in accordance with the request submitted by BE, of a lawyer by the plenary of this vote. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PS, the PSD and the PAN were adopted against BE, the PCP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the CDS-PP, the CH, the IL and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues.]] [[It is as follows: 2 — Included in the commission referred to in the previous paragraph are intra-bank transfers, transfers made through automatic boxes, twenty-four inter-bank transfers, for each calendar year, made through homebanking, and five transfers, for each month, with the limit of EUR 30 per operation, made through payment applications operated by third parties.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u440	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now returning to the Main Votes Screen to proceed to the overall final vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on Budget and Finance on draft Law No 216 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Sixth amendment to Decree-Law No 27 - C / 2000 of 10 March establishing the system of access to minimum banking services. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PAN and Non-registered MP Cristina Rodrigues and PCP, CDS-PP, PEV, CH, IL and MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We now move on to the overall final vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on European Affairs on draft Law No 460 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Third amendment to Law No 43 / 2006 of 25 August on the monitoring, assessment and delivery by the Assembly of the Republic in the process of building the European Union. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes in favour of PS and PSD, against BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues.]] We will vote on the application submitted by the PSD, requesting the general vote, speciality and overall finality of the Bill No 260 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Reparation of tax injustices against pensioners. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Let us then proceed to the general vote, speciality and overall end of Bill No 260 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Reparation of tax injustices against pensioners. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the PCP and the ENP were rejected, votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the CH, the IL and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and abstentions against BE and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u441	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u442	Mr Afonso Oliveira, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u443	Mr President, it is to inform me that I will present a statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u444	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We will generally vote for Bill No. 410 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Interpretation of Law No 119 / 2019 of 18 September, clarifying the scope of retroactive application of Article 74. the IRS Code. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Then we will vote for Bill No. 441 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Amendment to the Tax Code on the Income of Single Persons, clarifying the application of Article 74. o. [[The vote was taken in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, Non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and IL.]] With no objection, we are generally voting on the text of substitution presented by the Committee on Budgets and Finance on Bills Nos 410 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Interpretation of Law No 119 / 2019 of 18 September, clarifying the scope of retroactive application of Article 74. the IRS Code; and 441 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Amendment to the Tax Code on the Income of Single Persons, clarifying the application of Article 74. o. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Finally, let us vote on the opinion of the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u445	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u446	Mr. João Almeida, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u447	Mr President, there are still two votes that have been suspended to vote later. I would also like to confirm that the meaning of the CDS-PP vote on the overall final text presented by the European Committee on European Affairs on draft Law No 460 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) is against.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u448	It does not alter the final outcome of the vote, but it is recorded, Mr President. Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u449	Mr President, it is to be confirmed that I have received indications that there may have been a delay in voting on the speciality and overall final vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees relating to Bills Nos 117 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) and 118 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ), on pages 5 and 6 of the main script, the IL vote is in favour.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u450	Mr. Deputies, you are duly registered. Mr. André Ventura also asked for the floor. To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u451	Mr President, it was also to indicate, already given, that there are still initiatives that had to be voted on.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u452	Yes, we will return to the votes that were pending and that are on pages 14 and 15 of the main script. Mrs. Mariana Mortágua, ask for the word for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u453	Mr President, it is to make an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u454	You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u455	Mr President, I had a little time to find the bill number, but I would like to ask the Bureau to deliver Bill No 139 / XIV / 1 to Mr. Carlos Silva. a ( BE ) — Consecrates the prohibition on the collection of charges by credit institutions in transactions carried out on electronic platforms operated by third parties( 1 ). the amendment to Decree-Law No 3 / 2010 of 5 January) for the honourable Member to no longer accuse me of lying. [[PSD laughter.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u456	It will be duly delivered and Mr Silva will certainly not fail to appreciate it. Mr Afonso Oliveira, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u457	Mr President, I recently informed you that I would present a statement of vote on the vote on an initiative, but I was wrong to vote on it. The statement of vote concerns the last vote we made, i.e. the vote on the replacement text submitted by the Committee on Budget and Finance on Bills 410 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) and 441 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ).
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u458	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We will then proceed to the votes that had remained pending and we will begin with the Draft Resolution No 515 / XIV / 1. a (BE) — Recommends support measures for international students. Having requested its breakdown, we began by voting point 1 (b) of this project. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD and CDS-PP abstentions.]] We shall then vote on the remaining item 1 of the same motion for a resolution. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, BE, PCP, PEN, PEN, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD and CDS-PP abstentions.]] Let us now vote on point 2. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD, CDS-PP and IL abstentions.]] Finally, we are voting on point 3 of the same initiative. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, BE, PCP, PEN, PEN, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD and CDS-PP abstentions.]] We now turn to page 15 of the main script and to the vote on draft resolution No 517 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — makes recommendations for extraordinary measures to the Government to mitigate the effects of COVID-19 in higher education institutions. Having given the Bureau a request from the CFP to disaggregate the vote by points, we will begin by voting on point 1 of this draft resolution. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the CFP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP, the CH and the IL and the abstention of the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues.]] We shall then vote on point 2. [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, the PCP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the CH, the IL and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and the abstention of BE.]] Let us now vote on point 3 of this project. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PSD, the BE, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the PEN, the PEN, the CH, the IL and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues, votes against the PS and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] Finally, we shall vote on point 4 of the draft resolution. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered MP Cristina Rodrigues, votes against PS and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] Before the oral explanations of vote, we shall vote on the opinion of the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members, which I ask the Secretary, Mr Nelson Peralta, to read. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u459	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Members of Parliament, the request of the Court of Justice of the Comarca de Lisboa — Justice 2, Case No 13 / 17.3T9PRT, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Deputies decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mr Paulo Rios de Oliveira ( PSD ) to intervene in the proceedings within the framework of the cars in question.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u460	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Now, yes, let's turn to oral voting statements. For a statement of vote on the CFP's initiatives on the provision of work under risk, penosity and insanity, Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u461	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The right to risk supplement, penosity and insanity is again denied to employees of the Public Administration, with special responsibility for PS, who voted against, and PSD, who, having not abstained alone, because CDS and IL also abstained, contributes to the seeding of the CFP proposals. We had the opportunity at this Legislative Session to move forward in the guarantee of this right, with a process in which the PCP showed availability for solutions that would mean advances for these workers. This process is completed with a PS retreat in its position, ending up with everything in it. After months of warm words and palms to these workers because they are in the front line in the fight against the outbreak, at the time of translating this greeting into a concrete valorization and recognizing the conditions of risk, penosity and insanity to which they are subject, as well as ensuring the due compensations, the PS takes a step back and the PSD, in particular, supports this retreat. For more than 20 years, these workers have seen the realization of this deferred right. For more than 20 years, supplements and other compensation have been defined in law based on specific features of the work provided in the Local and Central Administration. Successive PS governments, PSD and CDS ignored regulatory deadlines and did nothing. It is not acceptable that all this time, these compensations are not yet guaranteed, meaning profound damage to workers. It is not a privilege, it is a right for those who work, every day, in conditions of risk, painful and unhealthy. It is entirely fair to guarantee these rights to these workers. It was essential to take this opportunity and it was not because of the responsibility of the CFP that this did not happen. This is a fight that we will not give up and we will not forget. Workers can count on the CFP and its intervention to recognize their right to supplement by risk, penosity and insanity. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u462	Before giving the floor to Mr Cancela Moura, I would like to remind you that each oral vote statement has a maximum of 2 minutes. However, in all oral explanations of vote, each political force has four minutes. As there are parties which have several oral explanations of vote planned, I would like to ask them to take this into account. Moreover, you now have the floor for an oral vote on this matter too, Mr Cancela Moura.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u463	Mr. President and Mr. Members: The PSD abstained from being consistent with what we would defend, or what we stand for, in the discussion of the matter in plenary, and from what we would defend in the discussion of the matter in the working group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u464	It's consistent, it's!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u465	It is our conviction that, as presented, the diplomas of the ENP, the PCP and the Left Block would create inequalities and aggravate the gap between the public and the private. They wouldn't be sustainable because of the breach of the labor law. But in fact, what really bothers in this process is the position of the Socialist Party. And, Mrs Diana Ferreira, do us justice: whoever voted against it was the Socialist Party! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u466	You're seeing the world the opposite! [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests by PCP MP Diana Ferreira.]] The Socialist Party did a legislative initiative simulation. In less than 15 days and in a matter which has not been legislated for 22 years, it has created a working group; it has set a date for submission of contributions, it has submitted a proposal for substitution, which almost consumes all of yours;... [[Protests by PS Member Bruno Aragon and PCP Member Diana Ferreira.]] ... has scheduled a meeting to decide; and, at the time of voting, he did not have the courage to take the position to the end and withdrew the proposed replacement.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u467	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u468	Above all, say it in favour of justice, this proposal decided to kick local authorities' charges with supplements.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u469	Now!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u470	That is, the Assembly of the Republic decided and the authorities paid. This is the PS position. We have already said, and we repeat again: Mrs. Member, do justice to the PSD! [[Protests by PCP MP Diana Ferreira.]] The measures are kind, deserve a serious, careful discussion, so that we are not approving benefits for workers who cannot be assured by the country in the future. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u471	Two oral explanations of vote follow the legislation which has been adopted in respect of the Statute of the Former Combatant. The first of these explanations of vote is that of Mr João Gonçalves Pereira, of the CDS-PP. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u472	Mr. President and Mr. Members: The approval of the Statute of the Old Combatant is not a favour that the Assembly of the Republic and the Country do to former combatants, it is, yes, the late recognition, but due and deserved, to whom the Father has honored, served the flag and glorified the name of Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u473	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u474	It was a late recognition because, despite the past several decades of delay, it is necessary to record the unacceptable delay of one year, because precisely one year ago this Statute could already be a reality was not the government at last withdrawing its initiative, preventing this justice from being done in 2019. It cost us much not to have been able to approve at the end of the past legislature this same Statute and, therefore, the CDS questioned that the first bill of law of this same Legislation to enter this Parliament was the Statute of the Old Fighter,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u475	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u476	... and so did, on October 30, 2019. We were the first party to bring this matter to Parliament in this legislature and we are very pleased that both the PAN and the PCP, both the Government and the Left Block and also the PSD have joined the CDS and have delivered legislative initiatives and that it has been possible to conclude this legislative session precisely with the approval of the Statute of the Former Combatant. But this approval cannot be seen as an end, because there is much more to be done by the former combatants and the CDS will always be on their side, as it has always been, particularly when it occupied the defense folder, through the welcome and memorable Minister Paulo Portas. The former fighters can always count on us, because we understand that it is a duty of the country to defend and pay due attention to those who risked their lives for only one value and one interest, which had only one name, Portugal. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u477	The next oral vote is also on this subject. To this end, Mrs Ana Miguel has the floor on behalf of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u478	Mr. President and Mr. Members : I would like to point out, on behalf of the Social Democratic Party, the relevant moment which today is signed with the approval of the Statute of the Old Combatant, a statute which should have been approved for more than four decades and which is therefore a recognition. For the PSD it was important to recognize the right of preference in social housing for former combatants and also to create, in the Statute, the figure of the widow or widow of the former fighter and the allocation of a special pension supplement. To approve this Statute in the middle of a pandemic period, to approve this Statute in the midst of an exceptional social and economic crisis, which has affected everyone without exception, is no longer an important milestone to signal. But the work does not end here, on the contrary, it has now begun with the building of a statute for these women and for these men who have given so much to our country without asking for anything in return. This is not the end, it is just the beginning of the principle. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u479	The next explanation of vote lies with the PSD Parliamentary Group on the right to petition. Mr Duarte Pacheco has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u480	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The amendment to the law of the petition, which the PSD proposed and which was approved, is aimed at valuing the petitionary instrument, the petition, and the people. Each person deserves the greatest respect and the instrument of petitions we had was not respecting people. I was not respecting people from the time the petitions were submitted and expected one or two years to have room to be appreciated in the plenary of the Assembly of the Republic, with 3 minutes of intervention time allocated to each parliamentary group. Today, under this rule, petitions that had to come before, necessarily, the plenary can be assessed in committee, without a time limit and, indeed, without people having to wait one or two years for their subjects to be assessed. This is to value people, to value this instrument, to value Portuguese democracy. I am very happy with the evolution which Parliament has approved today. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u481	The last oral vote by the Bureau was by Mrs Inês Sousa Real on legislation on crimes against pet animals. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u482	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I welcome today's unanimous approval of this House of strengthening the legal framework for crimes against pet animals. Having returned over six years of a regime that has been approved, this has undoubtedly been a very important step to dignify and speed up what has to be the action to help animals in this kind of situation. This was also an important step towards, from the outset, clarifying concepts that were so far clearly diffuse and to clarify and deepen the mechanisms for the empowerment of the damage of death which, so far, depended on ill-treatment that preceded that death. This was an important step to clarify, too, the crime of abandonment, which left out, incomprehensiblely, situations such as those of animals that were thrown into associations or into shelters, endangering the life of both the abandoned animal and the other animals that were there. This was undoubtedly an important step, as well as the establishment of a procedure, from the point of view of amending the Code of Criminal Procedure, which thus allows the obtaining of review and search warrants and the carrying out of forensic technical and medical expertise. In spite of these advances, which we are actually praising — given that we have accompanied a replacement text that we have brought to this House — there has been an extension of these crimes and this regime to the other animals, not just pets. Leaving these animals behind is, on the one hand, incomprehensible, but on the other hand, we could not, on the other hand, have been a bridge of consensus and dialogue between all the political forces that have subscribed to this replacement text, to advance protection against pets if we had made it dependent on enlargement to the other animals. But precisely because we do not forget the animals which, from the north to the south of this country, also suffer abandonment crimes which, until now, have clearly passed away and beyond the law—such as the equidae, such as livestock, among many others—the NAP, already at the next Legislative Session, will resume this matter and present another initiative, also waiting for the same contribution and capacity of dialogue that we have shown today in this House when we unanimously approve a project which aims, in fact, to strengthen the protection of animals in our country. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u483	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, before we close the proceedings this afternoon, I would ask Mr Nelson Peralta to inform the House, as our duty is, of the Members. Ladies and gentlemen who were present by videoconference.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u484	Mr. President and Mr. Members, I announce that Mr Paulo Pisco of the Socialist Party, elected by the electoral circle of Europe, was present, by video conference, at this plenary session.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-23.u485	Before I finish, I inform the House that tomorrow, Friday, 24th, the Plenary will meet, exceptionally, at 9 a.m. and 30 minutes. As everyone will know, there will be a single point in our agenda, the debate on the state of the nation. I thank all the Members and all the Members. Ladies and gentlemen, your cooperation so that the work has been carried out in the best way. I wish everyone a good night. See you tomorrow. The session is closed. [[It was 20 hours and 15 minutes.]]
