ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, Mrs. Officers of authority. Let's start the plenary meeting. [[It was 15 hours and 5 minutes.]] Today's session has as its sole point the beginning of the discussion of Law Nos 60 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Law of the Great Options for 2021 - 2023 and 61 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Approves the State budget for 2021. I'm asking the ladies. Members to, as usual, register during the session. Before giving the floor to Mr. Prime Minister to start the debate, I would ask Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha to take into account the useful information you have to provide.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u2	Good afternoon to all and to all. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I am going to announce that they have entered the Bureau and have been admitted, the following legislative initiatives: Bill No. 574 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ), which falls to 11. the Commission, in connection with 6. the Commission ; Parliamentary assessment No 32 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) ; Resolution Projects Nos 742 / XIV / 2. a ( CH ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 743 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ), which drops to 6. the Commission, 744 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 745 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ), which falls to 9. the Commission ; and draft Constitutional Review No 4 / XIV / 2. a ( CH). That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u3	Let us then begin the discussion, in general, of the two bills that I have announced earlier, and to this end I have the floor of Mr Prime Minister, which I take advantage of to congratulate.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The State Budget Bill for 2021 has three very clear priorities, namely fighting the pandemic, protecting people, supporting the economy and employment. Until we have an effective treatment or a vaccine, the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic will have to continue to be the first of our priorities, from then on with continued strengthening of the National Health Service ( SNS ). After a phased growth of EUR 1400 million in the SNS budget between 2015 and 2019, after a historic increase of EUR 850 million in the initial appropriation of 2020, followed by an extraordinary reinforcement of more than EUR 400 million in the Supplementary Budget approved in July, we now propose a further increase of more than EUR 805 million in the budget of the National Health Service to 2021,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... I repeat, we propose more EUR 805 million in the budget of the National Health Service for 2021, which will thus have a total of EUR 12 billion and EUR 100 million, i.e. only for next year, almost as much as the so-called 'European bazouca' will make available to us in the next six years. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In this way, we can not only continue the investment programme in primary health care, the expansion of the integrated continuous care network, the development of the mental health program, the modernization, expansion and construction of new hospitals, the net reinforcement of over 4200 professionals for the National Health Service and the hiring of 260 to INEM (National Institute of Medical Emergency ), but also have the resources needed to continue to increase the testing capacity and to acquire the anticipated vaccine doses, which are expected to be available in the next year, and, on the other hand, to create an extraordinary subsidy of 20 % of the salary, up to the limit of 219 €, for all physicians, nurses, diagnostic technicians, technical and operational assistants and other health professionals who are in direct contact with COVID patients. [[P.S.'s applause.]] On the other hand, we must strengthen the social protection of all those who, as a direct effect of the pandemic or measures to combat its spread, have lost their jobs, suffer sudden breaks of their activity or are victims of the multiple forms of deregulation of labour relations that undermine our social cohesion, so as to ensure that we leave no one behind. [[P.S.'s applause.]] There is a central dimension of this response which naturally goes beyond the strict scope of the budget and which requires legislative intervention, which is already under way, for the regulation of telework, digital platforms, the status of the intermittentness of cultural workers, the fight against job insecurity. It is in this framework that it is particularly relevant to the 24-month moratorium on the expiry of collective bargaining, thus protecting three million workers from deregulation. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But this proposal for the State Budget for 2021 provides for a set of social protection measures that the dialogue we have maintained with the Left Block, with the Portuguese Communist Party, with the Animal and Nature Party and with the Ecological Party « The Greens » has allowed to deepen and of which I would like to highlight: the structural dignity of the protection of unemployment for those who throughout their lives have discounted their wages, with the increase of the minimum limit of unemployment benefit of an IAS (indicating social support), currently of €438, for an amount that will always be greater than the threshold of poverty and that in the coming year will be €504 ;... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... the increase in social unemployment allowance for the value of the poverty threshold in order to mitigate the effects of poverty among the unemployed; the creation of a new extraordinary social benefit that protects workers from the risk of poverty on behalf of others who are not covered by unemployment benefit or social unemployment benefit, self-employed workers, domestic workers, informal workers and microenterprise managers;... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... because it is an extraordinary provision, in an exceptional situation, in which the solidarity effort of all is essential to ensure the income of families most affected by the crisis, we facilitate access to this provision, on the one hand, with the non-consideration of the housing itself and permanent for the purpose of the condition of resources, and on the other, with the allocation of this provision, irrespective of condition of appeal, to all workers whose unemployment benefit ceased in 2021 and to those who are affected by the loss of activity as a result of legal imposition or administrative decision. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Finally, it is very clear that sustainability, both in the fight against the pandemic and in the necessary protection of people, depends on the ability to support the economy and employment, with a responsible economic and budgetary policy, strongly countercyclical and potentiating future growth. First of all, by strengthening the conditions of confidence of economic agents, preserving the international credibility of our country with a path of sustained recovery of macroeconomic balances, ensuring fiscal stability for companies, accelerating the conditions of prompt access to funds mobilised by the European Union Recovery and Resilience Programme. Secondly, ensuring robust growth in public investment. This budget proposal increases by 23, 2 % public investment, with emphasis on health sectors, sustainable mobility, irrigation and forest protection, energy efficiency or equipment rehabilitation, favouring the most intensive investments in work and disseminated throughout the territory. Let me also highlight the important strengthening of 11 % in the budget devoted to culture, which thus increases EUR 49 million... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... taking another step to meet the growth objective set out in the Government Programme, which the crisis made even more evident is necessary to strengthen our cultural fabric. Thirdly, by continuing the business support strategy, from the outset, in the maintenance of jobs, through employment and recovery measures, with an estimated cost of over EUR 900 million next year. I support companies, too, in the elimination of the increase in autonomous taxes on small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) which in 2020 have losses, as well as the extension of tax credit to investment, so that companies do not have to postpone their modernisation or expansion projects. In addition, the extension of the moratorium on bank credits and the promotion of new credit lines with State guarantees up to EUR 6 billion. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Particular reference deserves two measures aimed at sectors strongly affected by the crisis: on the one hand, the end of the capital gains in the rehabilitation of real estate intended for local housing; on the other hand, the stimulus to consumption in restaurants, hotels or cultural goods and services, through the return to the consumer of VAT (value added tax) paid for new consumption of these goods and services. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Fourthly, contributing to the dynamization of domestic demand with the continuity of a income policy based on the valuation of the minimum wage, in line with the average increase of the previous legislation, and already in January, with a new extraordinary increase of 10 € per month for all pensioners with pensions up to 658 €. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In 2021, the available income of families will also improve with EUR 550 million of tax relief, by reducing electricity VAT, the decrease in the retention rate at the source of the IRS (tax on income of natural persons) and the already mentioned refund of VAT paid in restaurants, hotels and culture.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u5	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u6	And also for the improvement of non-monetary transfers, such as the freeness of daycare facilities for all children of the first and second steps families, the extension of the exemptions from moderate health rates, the dynamization of affordable leases, the maintenance of the cost of social passes with the extension of public transport supply and a further reduction of tolls on the inland and on the Via do Infante. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Finally, with specific measures to pursue the common objective of strengthening public investment, supporting businesses and boosting domestic demand, which is always the protection of employment. These measures are based, on the one hand, on a set of active employment measures, especially for young people.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u7	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u8	... and, on the other hand, on the conditionality of access to tax benefits or guaranteed credit lines or measures to support the recovery, by large profit companies, of the non-reduction of the level of employment they had last October 1 this year.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u9	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u10	In summary, the proposal for a State Budget for 2021 responds to the objectives we propose: to combat the pandemic, through an unprecedented strengthening of the National Health Service ;... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... to protect jointly those who have been most severely affected by the economic and social consequences of the pandemic, leaving no one to their own ends; to support the economy and employment, strengthening the confidence of economic actors, increasing public investment, supporting businesses and the income of families, with a clear economic priority — employment, employment and employment. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Budget proposals are not anomalous technocratic, odorless and colourless exercises; on the contrary, they are based on political options, are determined by values and different views of society. This proposal is no exception and naturally continues, without any delay or interruption, to the change that we started five years ago, by turning the page of austerity to allow more growth, better employment, greater equality, with certain accounts. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Now, as then, the crisis is not faced with austerity.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u11	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u12	Now, as then, it is necessary to value income, increase investment, strengthen public services. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is not surprising, therefore, the right opposition, led by the PPD / PSD, to a Budget that values family incomes and public investment as drivers of economic recovery and that chooses the strengthening of the National Health Service as the priority in combating the pandemic. One year ago, the right, led by the PPD / PSD, voted against the Health Bases Act and for more years that pass—or change leadership...— always see the devil in every increase in the national minimum wage. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests from PSD Members.]] Yes, Dr. Rui Rio is right, this is a Solidarity Distribution Budget, not an Austerity Restriction Budget. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This budget does not cut income, protects family income and protects families more from lower income. It does not reduce public investment, it increases to respond counter-cyclically to the contraction of the economy. It does not comply with the breakdown of demand and supports companies to overcome the crisis. It does not yield to the fatality of job destruction and protects employment. Yes, this is a budget against austerity and prosperity, economic recovery and employment. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In democracy, there are always alternatives and their vitality reinforces with the clarity of their statement. Just as we consistently defend the continuity of the path that we started in November 2015, it is natural that the right also consistently defends an opposite path.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u13	And the Left Block!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u14	Of course, it is possible to defend that we should be more daring to move forward on the path that this Budget maps, seeking to overcome limitations or inadequacies, but what is not possible, at all, is to say that if it wants to go further or faster on this path, now joining itself to the right that goes in the opposite direction. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u15	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u16	The general vote is not the overall final vote, but the general vote is the vote on political clarification, it is the vote on which to follow. Here the clarification is also clear. The position on the right is clear, the position of the PS is clear and fully consistent with the options assumed in these five years of governance, the positions of the Portuguese Communist Party,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u17	Oh!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u18	...of the Animal Party and Nature,... [[PSD, CDS-PP and CH laughter.]] ... of the Ecologist Party "The Greens", of the non-registered Members Joacine Katar Moreira and Cristina Rodrigues are also very clear and show that there are those who do not give up finding solutions to the crisis we are facing. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We shall, with democratic humility, continue to work with seriousness and spirit of commitment in order, in the field of expertise, to improve, with their contributions, the proposal we present here. Portugal needs, the Portuguese deserve, the crisis requires a clear and politically responsible path to adopt a good budget for 2021, to overcome the pandemic, protect citizens and support the economy and employment. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We have unique challenges that, I'm sure, none of us ever imagined to have to face. And so I would like to conclude, reaffirming today and here, in the solemnity of the plenary of the Assembly of the Republic, what I said yesterday did precisely one year in the takeover of the XXII Constitutional Government : « The commitment we have made to the Portuguese is not dependent on economic cycles. This is a government for the good and the bad times. (...) We will not turn our backs on difficulties. And the greater the storm, the greater our determination to overcome it». [[PS applause, stand up.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u19	To request clarification, Mr Rui Rio has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u20	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, I will ask you two questions on two subjects, which you did not mention, which I think is totally nevragic either for this budget or for future budgets - the Council of Public Finance itself has the same opinion as I have - that are the New Bank and the TAP ( Portuguese Air Transport ). According to the New Bank's purchase and sale contract, it may still claim €900 million and € few million under compensation for losses which it may have. This budget provides for only EUR 477 million, therefore some four hundred and few million are missing. The question I put to you is: if we arrive in April or May with the closed accounts and the New Bank comes to ask for the 900 million, that is, plus 400 million that are not in the Budget, what does the government do? First, he pays, even before the Court of Auditors audit is completed, what will he tell us if the losses we have paid so far were fair or were manufactured to get someone to win at the taxpayer's expense? Yes or no? And if you want to pay, how do you do, since you have no money in the State budget?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u21	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u22	The second question has to do with TAP. The TAP, on 31 December, was a bankrupt company with EUR 776 million of negative equity and EUR 1, EUR 2 billion of liabilities. The government approved more than EUR 1, EUR 2 billion of loan, i.e. doubled the liability that the TAP had. in this budget, there are more than 500 million euros valued by the government, which is the same as saying that the day less we will have to pay. I believe that TAP's own capital at the end of this year is expected to be EUR 2000 million, if not more negative. It happens that on 10 November there will be a general assembly of the TAP, in which, in point 2 of the agenda, an amendment to the Statutes is envisaged and, in this amendment to the Statutes, the Parpublica is prepared to allocate more liabilities, now in a total of EUR 156 million, covering the EUR 73 million corresponding to the private sector. In other words, TAP, in which the State now has a mistake, 72, 5 %, is proposed to allocate the EUR 156 million, which were previously to be divided by the private and the State. My questions are as follows: first, the government agrees with this? Is that what the government wants? That is, beyond all that is already in place, on 10 November there are still EUR 156 million behind the taxpayers? Secondly, when do we have the plan for the restructuring of the TAP, and we should have had it before the government decides to bury the taxpayers' money that is now buried there? [[PSD applause.]] The last question is whether TAP continues to persist in acting as a regional company that only wants to serve the Lisbon airport, what is the position the Government takes with respect to a restructuring plan that does not provide for the full coverage of the country and including links to the PALOP. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u23	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u24	Mr President, Mr Rui Rio, with regard to TAP, as you know, the restructuring programme is being drawn up which will in principle be completed in mid-December. What the Government is now planning for the State budget for 2021 is what is currently covered by the authorisations of the European Commission and in line with what is expected to be the need to strengthen a loan in the coming year. The fundamental question is political, whether we want TAP or whether we want to let it go. [[Protests from PSD Members.]] on our side, we have no doubt: TAP cannot fail,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... the TAP is essential to the economic development of the country, it is essential to ensure the territorial integrity of the country, it is essential to ensure our connection to the communities and it has to serve the whole country. [[Protests from PSD Members.]] on our side, no one has any doubt as to what the opinion on the TAP is, but one day I would also like to hear the opinion of the honourable Member on whether he wants to let the TAP go or not to let the TAP go. [[P.S.'s applause.]] With regard to the first question on the New Bank, Mr President, the essential answer depends on the Assembly of the Republic, because if the State budget for 2021 is approved, as we wish, firstly, there will be no State loan to the Resolution Fund and the Resolution Fund will not be able to inject more than EUR 400 million into the New Bank. However, if the State budget for 2021 is rejected, we shall maintain ourselves under the twelfth with the State budget for 2020.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u25	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u26	What does the 2020 State Budget allow? Firstly, it allows the State to lend to the Resolution Fund EUR 800 million and allows the Resolution Fund to inject up to EUR 1200 million into the New Bank. Or rather, it would allow, if the 2017 sales contract had not imposed a brake to the maximum capitalisation, which would never reach EUR 1200 million at the moment because it cannot exceed EUR 900 million. Therefore, Mr, the answer to the question depends essentially on the Assembly of the Republic. By approving the State budget for 2021 it has two guarantees: first, the State will not lend 1 cent to the Resolution Fund; second, the Resolution Fund will not be able to inject more than four hundred million euros into the New Bank. It is very simple, sir. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u27	It is the turn of the PS Parliamentary Group. Mr. João Paulo Correia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u28	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, we were waiting for Dr. Rui Rio to come to this debate to express his fundamental disagreements,... [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u29	... explaining why the PSD votes against this budget. We have not heard any substantive disagreement, but we know what Dr. Rui Rio has said in recent weeks about this Budget. First of all, this is a crisis-fighting budget; this is not the 2011 PSD and CDS response budget. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This model of response to the 2011 crisis is a model that the PSD would like to see re-edited now in 2021 and does not have the courage to take on this debate, but has been leaving public opinion during the last few days,... [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u30	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to hear the speaker's speech with the same silence as the previous speaker's speech deserved.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u31	Thank you very much, Mr President. I was saying that the PSD, over the past few weeks, was saying what I thought as a response to the crisis and this response to the crisis that the PSD defends is very close, very similar to what was done from 2011 onwards. [[Protests from PSD Members.]] The PSD, if it were government today, it should say so, would bet on wage devaluation. We do not ignore what Dr. Rui Rio said a week ago when he said that we should freeze the national minimum wage. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Nor do we ignore what Dr. Rui Rio said when he said that he did not care that the salary of the first employment of the new generations was a minimum wage or a low wage. He didn't care either! [[P.S.'s applause.]] It would be the model of de-investment in the National Health Service, because that was what happened between 2011 and 2015. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests from PSD Members.]] It would be the model of privatization, the model of decapitalisation of social security and the model of dismantling of the public transport service. Mr. Prime Minister, the PSD said, about this Budget, that the revenue is overestimated. This is a new confusion on the part of the PSD. For some years, they said tax revenue increased because taxes increased. Between 2016 and 2020, taxes did not increase; on the contrary, they fell. Economic growth is that it has driven the growth of tax revenue and contribution revenue, because more consumption and more employment means more IRS, more IRC (tax on income of the public) and more VAT. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And this time, the same thing happens: the tax and contribution revenue that is estimated at 2021 derives from the increase in economic activity, because GDP (gross domestic product) is estimated at a growth of 5, 4 %. And if there's more consumption, if there's more economic activity, then there's more social security contributions, because there's more employment, and there's more IRS, because there's more people employed and the average wages are going to increase. So this is an accusation that falls into a broken bag. [[Protests from PSD Members.]] The second charge of the PSD is that this budget distributes what it has and what it does not have. So, Dr. Rui Rio, you have the opportunity to say, with courage, where it cuts the expense. It is to say that this budget distributes what you have and what you don't have is not enough! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Cut on social spending? Say here: is it against the extraordinary increase in pensions? Is it against the increase in national minimum wage? Is it against the new performance? Is it against the increase in public administration's salary by around 3%? [[It's against everything!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u32	You have to tell me where to cut! Is it public investment? For years, they said that public investment did not grow to the desired levels. The State budget for 2021 presents a proposal for an increase of 23 % in public investment. Where's the PSD? Stay against it! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests from PSD Members.]] It also says the PSD that this Budget does nothing for the reform of the Public Administration. Dr. Rui Rio, we remember well what "reform" means for the PSD: freezings and cuts! [[P.S.'s applause.]] You are against a budget that increases the salary mass of the Public Administration by 750 million euros, are against new contracts for the National Health Service, new contracts for the public school, the thawing of career progression, the creation of an extraordinary subsidy for porosity and health, a risk allowance for health professionals who are in front of the fight against COVID? [[Protests from PSD Members.]] And you say this isn't the public administration reform? Oh, my God! For you, the reform of the Public Administration is wage devaluation. Our way is in the opposite sense: it is betting on people, investing on people, it is wager valorization, the valuing of workers' incomes from the public service! [[P.S.'s applause.]] The PSD also says that this Budget does not give signs to the middle class.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u33	Come on, come on! Give me some bad signs!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u34	So, the decline in IRS retention rates in EUR 200 million and the savings that the Portuguese made in the IRS from 2016 to 2020, which save EUR 1000 million in IRS, is not support and collaboration with the middle class? So the PSD is against it too! Is that what you're talking about? Therefore, Mr. Prime Minister, for all that has been discussed over the past few weeks, the PSD defends a completely different model. The PSD response to this crisis would be the re-editation of the 2011 model. This is a budget with a strong social dimension: it strengthens the National Health Service, protects income and employment and supports the economy and businesses. This is a Budget that maintains the measures built up in the last four years with our parliamentary partners and is a Budget with advances, advances in priority areas, advances built with our preferred parliamentary partners — PCP, PEV, Block of Left and PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u35	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u36	I shall conclude, Mr President. However, what will happen tomorrow is that some parties will join their votes by voting against this budget.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u37	It's democracy!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u38	And the position of the Left Block, which announced that it would vote against this budget, is, for us, a disappointment. [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u39	It is a disappointment because we do not understand how someone who says he is available to negotiate if he departs from the negotiations.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u40	He's sick of being deceived!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u41	It's because the Left Block, by moving away from the negotiations,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u42	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u43	... it is not available to improve the budget in the specialty. We would like to see other proposals aimed at improving the priority areas of this budget again with what is most important, which is to leave no one behind. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u44	To answer, you have the floor Mr. Prime Minister, Antonio Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u45	Mr President, Mr João Paulo Correia, it is indeed a mystery that Dr. Rui Rio, who had differences, and even understandable, with the model of the 15-year debates, transforms any substantive debate into a small 15-year debate. [[P.S.'s applause.]] When the Government asked the Assembly of the Republic for a thematic debate on the Recovery and Resilience Plan, which mobilises almost EUR 13 billion for structural investments to be carried out in the next six years, Dr. Rui Rio did not say a word on this issue. The question you raised — I do not know if you remember — was, taking advantage of this occasion, and how a tragedy was announced to the country, on the increase of the promised national minimum wage to 2021. In the debate on the State budget last year, what Dr. Rui Rio was tormenting, as we should recall, a difference of EUR 500 million between a framework of an annex and a framework of another annex, and nothing said about the substantive issue that was at stake in the discussion of the State budget. And now also, on this State Budget, Dr. Rui Rio, takes refuge here in small questions, own of a 15-year debate, but totally inadequate for a debate on the State Budget for next year. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] I would say, and it would be unfair, that this was because of a lack of ideas, but I repeat, it would be very unfair. But this happens precisely because of the ideas, because the basic idea that the right, the PPD / PSD and Dr. Rui Rio have about the response to this crisis is the one that has let go of small lateral statements. First, against an economic policy that values income and increases public investment as an engine for economic recovery and, second, against the priority of strengthening the National Health Service as a fundamental tool for combating pandemics. These are the background positions, this is the background difference and this is why the PPD / PSD and the right will vote against this Budget! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD Member Protest Duarte Marques.]] In any case, we will follow with great attention how the PPD / PSD behaves in the specialty, because, in addition to the concerns that Dr. Rui Rio has expressed with the fact that this is a Budget that distributes solidarity, strengthens investment, strengthens the National Health Service and beyond the concern that Mr Duarte Marques has so vocally expressed during this debate on the future of public finances, we will see whether all these concerns will be present when we arrive at the speciality,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... because what we have seen is that with the PSD it is always so: the public virtues in the fullness and private vices in the specialty! [[P.S.'s applause.]] The truth is, no one has ever seen the PPD / PSD and no one has ever seen Dr. Rui Rio propose where it cut in the expense and where it increased in the recipe. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The proposals of the PPD / PSD and Dr. Rui Rio are always the same: download the recipe for everyone, increase the expenditure for everyone and thus also have an even lower deficit. It will be a miracle of the roses we have never seen and will certainly not see in the form of the miracle of the oranges! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u46	It is the turn of the Left Block Parliamentary Group. Mrs Catarina Martins has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u47	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister says, and quite rightly, that a State budget is not a technocratic exercise. But it is also not a proclaiming exercise, it is a response to the lives of people and the country, and it is from that response that the Left Block does not give up.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u48	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u49	Mr. Prime Minister has assured here that there is, in this Budget, no retreat towards the road started in 2015, but that is not true. There is retreat and, of course, health. Before the pandemic, we already knew that the National Health Service needed more means and a transformation to meet the challenges of the present. So we made a new Health Bases Act and therefore in the State Budget for 2020, we agreed on new investments in the SNS. The arrival of the pandemic proved the importance of these steps. While the privates closed emergencies and clinics, they sent pregnant women with VOCID to the SNS or used the pandemic as an excuse to charge hundreds of euros more, the National Health Service organized their response, their professionals unfolded in endless shifts and responded to the country. All the means were used in response to the pandemic and the Government brought to Parliament a proposal for an Supplementary Budget which the Block did not hesitate to make possible with its vote. Now, here, we look at the maps of the State budget and conclude two things: transfers to the National Health Service are stagnating, with only EUR 4 million compared to the one executed in 2020, and the budget allocation for the SNS is even below 144 million in the Supplementary Budget. [[PS protests.]] The need for investment in SNS in 2021 is not lower, it is greater, not only because the pandemic will continue, but also because it is necessary to recover all non-COVID care that has been delayed. And the investments that we agreed on before the pandemic, which are essential, continue to be made.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u50	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u51	How can the government expect the SNS to do more with less? It is true that the health budget increases, but if you don't go to the SNS, where are you going? Oh, my God! It is certainly necessary to use the capacity installed in the private and social sectors, but we do not accept that the pandemic serves to weaken the SNS and enrich the private health business.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u52	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u53	We need more means and more professionals in the National Health Service. Why does the Government refuse to rebuild careers and open doors to exclusive dedication in the National Health Service, as stated in the Socialist Party's own Programme and the Basic Law, which we approved together? Why does the government remain powerless in the face of empty candidates' competitions? Thirty percent of doctors' vacancies are empty. There are thousands of professionals trained by the National Health Service over the years that the State has no means to retain. Does this have to do with more money for the National Health Service or for health? It has to do with the National Health Service, yes, but above all it has to do with responsibility, courage and good sense. When the SNS needs attractive careers to recover the professionals it needs, the government chooses to pay the private and, instead of bringing the doctors to the National Health Service, sends the patients to the private business. Worse for the state, worse for families. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u54	Mr Prime Minister, I would also like to speak to you about the response to the social emergency. The right-hand model of response to the crisis, which has already been mentioned today, consists, no less, of the labour and social protection laws adopted in 2012 and is with this model that the Government is preparing to face this crisis. by keeping the troika cuts in unemployment allowance, the government repeats an old mistake. at a time of crisis, pushes those who have discounts out of unemployment, ending up pushing long-term unemployed for a reform with major penalties, and this is a retreat on the path that we have shared in recent years to dignify careers and reforms. If the rules are not changed, the result will be the same. But this is not the only problem of the Budget in response to the social emergency. The Government also has a withdrawal from the extraordinary support created in 2020. Thousands of tourism, restoration or culture workers, sectors in which employment will, unfortunately, still take a long time to recover, lose support or will see it reduced to very little by 2021. For that, just be married to someone who earns 857 €, gross, per month. The same is true of a young man who has lost his job, has lost nothing and has returned home to his parents. It is enough for parents to earn the national minimum wage so that this young person will be denied support. How will these families survive? How do we explain to a precarious worker, the green, temporary or partner-manager receipt of a micro-enterprise, which maintains the breakdown of income guaranteed by support in 2020, which will no longer be supported in 2021? Mr Prime Minister, what the Block proposes in response to the social emergency, i.e. recovering unemployment allowance and not excluding anyone from extraordinary support, is in fact only reasonable and sound. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u55	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u56	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, allow me to disagree. [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u57	The State Budget proposal for the year 2021 has no retreat and continues the trajectory we have been developing since 2015, a constant increase in the budget allocation of the National Health Service. [[At the moment, the speaker displayed a chart entitled ‘Transfers from the State Budget to the SNS’.]] In recent days, the Left Block has used a chart comparing what is not comparable, but if we look exclusively — I repeat, exclusively — to the words it has used regarding the 2020 Supplementary Budget, which is only that of transfers of State budget taxes to the National Health Service, yet the bill for 2021 has an increase of EUR 156 million. Yeah, he's been on his way up. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As in 22 000, in net terms, the number of health professionals has increased systematically the number of doctors in the National Health Service. The speaker displayed a chart entitled “Increasing health professionals”. And the Left Block uses... I'm not going to use the word. The Left Block uses a comparison methodology that seeks to ignore the variability throughout the year of the number of doctors in the National Health Service. The speaker displayed a chart entitled « N. total physicians have increased 18 % since 2015 ». As you can see, in the long period of 2015 until now, systematically, we have a peak in January, throughout the year people go out and then, according to the training cycle, they go back in. The question is that you have to compare with the homologous month, if you want to compare, or then you have to see the trend. And the trend is very simple, Mrs. Member. The speaker displayed a chart entitled “Increasing Doctors”. over these five years, we have more than 4500 doctors in the National Health Service than we had before. [[P.S.'s applause.]] She also knows that this year's 2020 issue of the National Health Service with the hiring of medical specialists had a fundamental reason to be: that the COVID changed the course of training. The doctors completed their training later and therefore the contests could only be opened later, so they will only later arrive at the National Health Service. But, as you know, training is completed, competitions are open and doctors are being hired. [[P.S.'s applause.]] So what we made as a compromise in 2020 is what we are going to achieve in 2020 and 2021. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen, it is not worth wishing to polarize the debate between us, because the alternative presented in this parliamentary debate is not between the Government's budget and the Left Block's budget to vote against. The alternative that exists is between what the Government presents and what the right presents. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The alternative is that of those who, like the PS, will vote in favour of this budget proposal, it is that of the other parties on the left, such as the Portuguese Communist Party, the ENP, Mrs Joacine Katar Moreira,... [[CH rice and PSD Members.]] ... the environmentalists of the NAP or Mrs. Cristina Rodrigues, who, understanding that it is necessary to move forward in order to overcome inadequacies and limitations, do not desert from the left to join the right, but make it possible to move this Budget to the specialty. [[P.S.'s applause.]] So, ladies and gentlemen, when you talk to me about social benefits, I ask you, do you remember to have presented this document? The speaker displayed the document entitled « A protection to leave no one behind ».
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u58	Another graph? Oh, my God! Nobody sees anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u59	There is a video, in fact, that circulates on social networks, where the honourable Member explains that the Block is carefully studying matters and therefore knows what it proposes. And the social benefit they propose—is said here! — would cover 100 000 people, totalling EUR 420 million.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u60	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u61	The social benefit against which you will vote will protect 258 000 people, more than twice your proposal, and will have a total expenditure of EUR 630 million. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests from BE José Moura Soeiro.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u62	I give the floor to Mr Jerónimo de Sousa.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u63	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, it is, for us, of course, that this budget does not respond to the structural problems of the country... [[CH's laughs.]] Are you feeling funny? Oh, my God! I don't think you're funny. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is for us, of course, that this budget does not respond to the structural problems of the country or to the new problems arising from the epidemic. That's what we say we don't give up the battle before we get caught. The decision of the CFP by the abstention in general aims to allow the confrontation between national problems and the alternative in order to respond to them. Our decision must be understood not as a point of arrival, but as an imperative for the country to find the solutions it needs, even if it sees the systematic refusal of the Government to move forward in this direction. Solutions, these, which constitute a national emergency and which will have to go beyond the Budget, with the general increase in wages for all workers, the repeal of the serious standards of labour law, support for national production and other necessary measures. It is of no use to say that this is a budget with strong social or economic support if they are absent or insufficient measures that give concrete expression to these objectives. The first question I would like to ask you is this: at a time when all economic and social problems are aggravated and we need to intervene in order to counter this direction, how can the Government continue to give priority to reducing the deficit rather than to the needs of the country and to stronger growth in the economy and employment? [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u64	If this is a wrong option in any circumstances, it becomes particularly serious and incomprehensible in the current situation. This option denies the country about EUR 6 billion, which is still needed in response to national problems. The debate in the specialty has to be done around the real solutions for the country, without any illusion that it may be other criteria to determine the path of this Budget. The CFP will insist on proposals to implement these solutions. The Government and the PS remain responsible for clarifying the options they want to make and the convergences they want to bear. Are they going, Government and PS, to converge with the CFP in the enhancement of public services, in particular in the strengthening of the SNS against the looting of economic groups, in the recruitment and linkage of thousands of professionals in need, in the enhancement of their rights and careers?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u65	Go, go...!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u66	Are they going, government and PS, to converge with the PCP in the assessment of workers of essential services without discrimination, in sectors such as health, security forces and services, firefighters, social equipment and others? Will they converge with the CFP in strengthening social protection, in valuing unemployment benefit and in responding to young families and the elderly, with the creation, already in 2021, in the public network, of day care centres and homes? Will they converge with the CFP on solutions that give priority to micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, rather than economic groups, in defence of economic activity and jobs? Are they going to converge with the CFP for greater fiscal justice, relieving the taxation of lower and intermediate incomes and effectively taxing the profits of economic groups? Will the Government intervene or not to put an end to PPPs (public-private partnerships) and to ensure that strategic sectors do not continue to benefit from the interests of monopolies groups, whether in the CTT, ANA-Aeroports, in the TAP or in the New Bank? The answers to these questions close some of the clearest examples of the options that are required to defend the interests of the people and the country. It is before these concrete options that the PS has to clarify whether it is with the PCP that it will converge or if other its objectives and other its convergences are. For us, we have a commitment, the commitment to the workers who saw their salary cut or frozen, to those who lost their jobs, to those with whom they saw the failure of their small business, to people with disabilities, to the users of the SNS, who see the consultations and examinations postponed, while the powerful remain untouchable in their profits, dividends and privileges. So, no, Mr. Prime Minister! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u67	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u68	Mr President, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, I thank you for your questions. Let us start with the basic political question: who does the government want to converge with? I have said it several times and, unfortunately, sometimes when I say it, they say it's blackmail, sometimes when I don't say it, they say I create the doubt about whether or not we want to understand it right, make the central block, and all this speech. I have already made it clear, without blackmail, that we do not want any central block and we have, in fact, an advantage, that neither the PS will, nor the PSD, nor any central block. What we want is to continue the new political situation that emerged from the 2015 elections and that has allowed us, from November 2015 to today, Budget Budget, measures the measure, to seek to understand and find convergent views to solve the concrete problems of our country and our citizens. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u69	As we know, we do not converge on everything and none of us certainly have the hope of coming to converge on everything. The day we converged on everything, one of us was on the wrong bench. It is natural that there are differences between us, but, over these years, it has been possible to work seriously, rigorously, with mutual respect, without spreading, a serious and effective work to find points of encounter and convergence. As we know, part of the issues already contained in the State Budget proposal are the result of our joint work since July. We are well aware that the CFP, and I have acknowledged it here, has noted that there are limitations and that there are inadequacies. If I wonder if I'm going to converge on everything you've told me, I'm not going to converge on everything you've told me,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u70	Migalhas!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u71	... but I am sure that if we work seriously at the specialty stage, as we have worked over these five years, we will reach a point that will respond to the country's effective needs and allow us to continue walking, because, as we have always checked, while there is a road to walk, there is a way to go together. That is what we are going to do, that is the commitment I leave you here, that we are going to work, at the stage of the speciality, with the same seriousness and determination as we have done over the past five years and also in preparing this bill for its general assessment. I am sure that, on the PCP side, it will be the same attitude as it will maintain. We're all waiting for the final result, but I'm sure we'll all work to reach a good destination. And this is what our people most long for, is what those who most need social protection, who most need the revival of the economy, who need the most to see their jobs recovered, who need the most to believe in the future, as they believed in November 2015, in 2016, in 2017, in 2018, in 2019 and they will believe, again, in 2021, because we will win the pandemic, but we will also be able to protect people, support the economy and support employment. And for this, surely, the joint work with the CFP is of the greatest importance and is indispensable for the success of this Budget for 2021. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u72	The Group of Parliament of the CDS-PP now gives the floor to Mr Telmo Correia. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u73	Mr President, Prime Minister, first and foremost, I would like to tell you that, from our point of view, this permanent folklore of negotiation and budgetary barge is a very sad spectacle for the country, especially in the context of economic crisis, social crisis and pandemic. Secondly, Mr Prime Minister, in order to talk about the fundamental issue, I would like to say that, in our view, this budget has a political problem, it has an economic problem and it has a problem of justice. Starting with the political problem, I ask you, Prime Minister, if you have already realized that the political model that you created to reach power without having won the elections, commonly known as management, if you are running out, if you are running out.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u74	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u75	I'd like to know if you've noticed this or not, because it seems very obvious. What is more, it is curious that in your exchange you completely ignore that we are not, and I will explain why, but the PSD itself somehow made you a proposal for dialogue and conversation. The Prime Minister has totally ignored him, contradicting his speech on the great need for country unity to deal with the crisis. Your tug over the fortnight, and it's nothing to me, Prime Minister, has hurt you, because it is true that the PSD has served to end the fortnightly debates. You are poor and ungrateful, Prime Minister! You, from this point of view, are poor and ungrateful. But since we are talking about other parties, I still want to tell you that the idea remains that, in fact, you, the first time you went to the government, inherited a country in which the deficit was controlled,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u76	It's true! [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u77	...and it was in the 3 %, in which the efforts and sacrifices that had to be made had already been made and in which the economy was already growing...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u78	Exactly! And unemployment is coming down!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u79	...and unemployment falling. That is why it was possible, for some time, to have a left-wing majority — such a new model — to distribute some blessings and to distribute money. Now, that there is no longer much to distribute, now, which is more difficult, Mr. Prime Minister, there if you go your majority, there if you go your great option. And the truth, Mr. Prime Minister, was that it was curious to go to the concrete names. It was very curious. You know why? Because it will be enough for the PCP to instruct the Greens not to vote the same way at the end, which is not unthinkable, so that their great project of the great left-wing majority will be a dissident of a radical party and a division in an animalist party. This is what remains of your large left majority and your great left project. [[Protests of PS Members.]] Why? Because you created a model in which everything is dependent on a permanent negotiation, a permanent negotiation, of "give this to that union", "give this to others"... [[Protests of PS Members.]] This obviously has a limit and that is why we come here with an idea of the end of the cycle. I don't even care about it, Mr. Prime Minister, whose fault it is. I don't care! If the blame is on the PS, if the blame is on the Left Block, is it absolutely indifferent to me, but now I ask you: did you only now realize that the position of the Block was opportunistic? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u80	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u81	You've never given up on that before? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u82	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u83	Did you just now realize that the Left Block was a good-time partner, while he was giving things while he had things to give, and that, in difficult times, in complicated hours, when the economy was like it was, jumping out and putting itself out? Oh, my God! Did you just give it to me now? Oh, my God! Didn't you notice before? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u84	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u85	You really have a political problem, but it was not me who got into this hole and apparently you don't know how to get out of it.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u86	Look at the irrevocable!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u87	Secondly, there is obviously an economic problem. This budget, and in this respect I agree with you, Prime Minister, is a left-wing budget, it is a left-wing budget, it is a left-wing budget to please the left. in this, we agree and therefore would never be our budget—we are a right party. It is a budget that, moreover, part of the old illusion on the left, that it is possible to distribute wealth without creating it.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u88	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u89	That is the basic idea of this Budget: to distribute and distribute. But it's not just distribution, it's more than that, it's one thing that the left is prodigy, which is the following: as long as funds come, they come from where they come from, it gives to make welfare. The problem is that these funds have an end, welfareism too, and then there is no economy that survives it. And Mr. Prime Minister knows that most business leaders have told him that this budget has nothing for companies. Taxation stays the same. Taking the advertising number out of the voucher, the rest is the same. You do not reduce taxes, you have nothing to offer to companies, and that is why this Budget, in some way, is a budget that, according to the old Oriental proverb, can even distribute some fish, but does not teach to fish, nor gives the cane, and the cane are the companies, the cane is the private economy. 80 % of our wealth is produced by the private economy and in this area nothing is satisfactory, because it is public, public and more public. Finally, Mr Prime Minister, there is still, in our view, a problem of justice. And the problem of justice is this: we say, from the outset, that the only way to respond in health and the only way to respond to the pandemic is by taking advantage of the entire installed capacity, is by contracting with the social sector and with the private sector. It's the only option! Where is the word for it to be done? It is that she is not there and, if she is not there, what happens is that we will not be able to recover the thousands of consultations and surgeries that have to be done and the situation we have in our health.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u90	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u91	Where is the money, for example, for the elderly, Mr. Prime Minister, for those who are unable to buy their medicines at the moment? Oh, my God! It is not there and, from this point of view, it is not fair either! Now, and still speaking in justice, Mr Prime Minister, you will finally propose — it must be part of your negotiations — the risk allowance for health professionals. We have proposed this and, as you know, the gentlemen have fluctuated, in fact, we have proposed a similar formula and it was the Socialist Party that led it.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u92	I would ask you to finish, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u93	I'm really finishing up, Mr. President. But I ask you: how do you propose to one another and not propose to others? As far as I can see, the risk allowance for the security forces, which has come to be approved here, does not exist, is not there. So there is also a problem of justice in this area. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u94	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u95	Mr President, Mr Telmo Correia, it is curious that the CDS is putting this political problem, because democracy is by nature a regime of commitment and negotiation. What time did the CDS arrive at the government because it won the elections? Whenever the CDS ruled it was because the CDS traded, in the democratic framework, once on an extraordinary basis, with the PS and repeatedly with the PSD, to enable governance solutions. That is what we live in is the parliamentary democracy in which we live.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u96	So far, so good!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u97	You will say: 'Well, but why do you just want to negotiate on the left and you don't want to negotiate with the PPD / PSD? » I have explained it several times: our country has a great virtuality, which is to have in our party system the ability to generate alternative majority so that whenever the Portuguese want it they change their political orientation.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u98	Like the Azorians!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u99	In 2011 the Portuguese wanted to change a majority and found a new majority in the PPD / PSD and CDS-PP ; in 2015 the Portuguese wanted to change a majority and found in the PS and in the political solution found with the Left Block, with the PCP and with the ENP a solution that allowed an alternative. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CDS-PP protests.]] The best way to ensure the vitality of our democracy and to prevent the emergence of populism is to continue to assure Portuguese people that, whenever they wish, they will find in the democratic space of this Parliament the necessary political alternatives, either on the left or on the right. And that is a huge advantage for democracy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Cecilia Meireles.]] As you know, if you look at what is happening in most European countries, the fragmentation of the party spectrum has forced in many of these countries the existence of the so-called large coalitions, which we usually translate here into « central bloc ». In none of these countries this has led to the strengthening of political alternatives in the democratic field. In all these countries, this has resulted in the strengthening of populist, extremist, radical and nationalist currents that are a threat to democracy and the European project. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Telmo Correia.]] Honestly, I believe—and as much as I understand it is the idea that Dr. Rio Rui Rio also has — that what is advantageous to our democracy is that there are no central block solutions, that there are solutions where the PSD polarizes to the right, the PS polarize to the left and that they are able to present alternatives to the country. Fortunately, we are in a budgetary debate where the alternatives are very clear. We believe that it is strengthening the income of families and increasing the public investment that we have created two powerful engines for the revival of our economy and that this is good for families and businesses. We believe that the best way to fight the pandemic is to strengthen the National Health Service and it is very good for Portuguese democracy that the right clearly says the opposite: that it does not want to strengthen the National Health Service but wants to transfer SNS resources to the private, to respond to the pandemic, that it does not want to improve the income of families or increase public investment, because it does not want a Budget that responds countercyclically to the contraction of the economy and prefers the crisis to respond to the crisis. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Therefore, Mr President, I believe that this is healthy and there is no problem, which is a quality of our democracy. Surely the parties, even when they have understandings, have, of course, room for differences. I do not know whether the decision of the Left Block on this Budget is more or less irrevocable than the decision of the CDS to abandon the PSD Government. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CDS-PP protests.]] But there is one thing I know: it is that you will never see me having less respect or consideration for the political autonomy of the Left Block, whether they decide to vote on the left, whether they decide to add their vote to their vote, voting against the Budget in general. Each one is free to determine himself and I also respect the options. It is now everyone's responsibility and everyone knows whether to vote on the left or to vote on it with you. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u100	You have the floor, for a request for clarification, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u101	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister and other members of the Government, there will certainly be anyone in this debate who wants to convince everyone and the country that the vote against the State budget at this time is perfectly justifiable. To these, the NAP cannot fail to say that, at the moment, Parliament has the possibility of not resigning itself from its responsibilities, deciding to turn this proposal into a budget which reflects the various views of the various political forces and thus the various concerns of citizens and citizens. Mr Prime Minister, however, it is clear that this budget is not the budget that the NAP would present. But the NAP does not relinquish its responsibility, as an elected party, to contribute to advance the causes it defends and that represent more and more people, focusing on what really matters, the common good. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, for the NAP, it is still possible that the 2021 Budget will have the necessary basis for what we believe is the necessary economic recovery, social recovery, but also the environmental recovery that the country so needs. It is also important that the commitment to the transition to more sustainable development and production models is also made. This is because, without failing to consider positive that the current document already welcomes some of the demands of the NAP — such as the failure to transfer public money to the New Bank, the extension of support to businesses, the rise of the minimum value of unemployment benefit to a value above the poverty threshold, or even the protection of employment in companies receiving public money — while at the same time welcoming proposals recently consensualized with the NAP — as is the case with the hiring of professionals to the INEM and to the Psychological Support and Intervention Centre itself at Crisis or investment in university veterinary hospitals, with a view to ensuring the necessary provision of support for animals held by deprived families or even by animal protection associations — it is necessary to go further, Mr. Prime Minister, in particular in what separates us. We can give several examples. It can be seen that, contrary to what was defined in the last Budget, the Budget for 2021 extends the planned targets for the progressive reduction of tax bills to electro-producers in autonomous regions and also ensures the creation of a new fiscal bond to installations subject to a rationalisation of energy consumption. Instead of paying ISP ( tax on oil and energy products) to 100 % already in 2021, they will, after all, have a tax premium up to 2025, contrary to Prime Minister, with the targets of decarbonisation itself. For the NAP, this is not, nor can it be, the way. That is why, in the field of expertise, we are going to make a number of proposals for environmental change, from the outset, to honor what was determined in 2020 with regard to the anticipation of the end of the exemptions. What we ask you, Prime Minister, is whether the government will or will not have the nerve to be consistent with the commitment to decarbonisation or whether we will have flags on the part of the government without practical consequences. Mr Prime Minister, in the coming weeks, the NAP will do what it is for a responsible and committed party to the country: to present proposals to improve the Budget and to give the answers that the same does not yet give, some of them fundamental to combat the climate crisis, which has not remained behind. Is it open to the government, or is it not, to resume, for example, the anticipation of the targets of ISP exemptions in energy production or to apply a carbon rate to navigation and aviation which returns to the Environment Fund and which can be allocated to rail and electric mobility? Is there also any way to open up the government so that biodiversity and habitat protection can be provided, directly supporting companies? We have heard here that there is no direct support for companies, but not only do we disagree, to some extent, on this issue, how crucial it is that the funds that are coming here are used precisely for the conversion to more sustainable models of production, Mr Prime Minister. For this reason, we need to know whether or not it is available to take steps that can prohibit, for example, the sale of products with microplastics, the prohibition of the use of palm oil in biofuels or the creation of incentive programmes that positively lead to the transition from the point of view of support to businesses and agricultural production to more sustainable models, which preserve what we have so unique in our country, habitats, ecosystems and their biodiversity. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u102	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u103	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, indeed, we have had the opportunity to work together and, as this has been kind enough to recognize, the proposal we have tabled already welcomes some of the NAP proposals. There are other NAP proposals in which we must continue to work now in the field of expertise. We agree with many of them, some have difficulties and others disagree. It's natural and it's normal. With regard to the fundamental commitment to the priority of climate change, as you know, this is one of the key agendas contained in our Government Programme, it is one of the four agendas we have entered into in the Portugal 2030 Strategy and in the Recovery and Resilience Plan that is an area where we concentrate a very large investment effort. We look forward, precisely over the next six years, to significantly strengthen investment by more than EUR 3200 million, only in sustainable mobility, industry decarbonisation programmes and in the promotion of the economy, energy efficiency and renewable energy. This is also the view we have on reforming agricultural policy, with a view, precisely, to valuing its environmental component, and the commitment we have to assume food autonomy, while at the same time valuing what is the sustainability of our agriculture. Therefore, the agenda of innovation in agriculture is absolutely critical so that we can increase our production and improve productivity without meaning the destruction of natural resources or the creation of environmental liabilities, in particular in the efficient management of this essential good which is water, for which we have developed a specific programme for one of the most critical regions, from the point of view of the efficiency of water management, which is precisely the Algarve region. We will continue to work both in tax matters and in matters relating to the whole component of energy efficiency, both in matters relating to animal welfare and in the agenda we have established in common, to work now in the field of expertise. And, just as the work has been fruitful in preparing the bill at this stage of generality, I am sure that, at the stage of the specialty, we will be able to deepen it, achieving more objectives and more progress in what is converging matter between us; in matters where we are divergent, of course, we must strive to find a compromise point between us all. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u104	I have the floor, for a request for clarification, Mr José Luís Ferreira, of the Parliamentary Group of the Green Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u105	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, as we have already mentioned publicly, this State budget, in the perspective of the Greens, is far from responding to the problems faced by the country and the Portuguese. Nevertheless, and once the Government has shown some willingness to welcome some of our concerns, particularly in terms of preserving nature and animal welfare, at the level of protecting micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, at the level of family farming, the Greens will abstain from voting in general. But this sense of vote, Mr Prime Minister, and this position of openness expressed by the Greens today has one and only one purpose, which is also very clear: to give the PS and the Government another opportunity to also take a position of openness to other concerns of the Greens, in particular with regard to the fight against poverty, the strengthening of public services, especially health, education and justice, but also to the need for investment in public transport in general, and in particular in rail. They are absolutely fundamental matters, which we see as indispensable prerequisites for responding to the problems we face, but to which the Government does not pay due attention in this budget. In fact, from the perspective of the Greens, as we said from the beginning of the process, it would be absolutely crucial for the State budget for 2021 to take on the determined fight against poverty, which has gained even more worrying dimensions following the pandemic, and also a substantial effort at the level of public services. But the truth is that what is envisaged at the level of strengthening public services and combating poverty is far from desirable. As regards combating poverty, we are talking about the thousands of workers who will be without access to any social support, especially precarious workers and the whole universe of informal workers, but we are also talking about the increase in wages for public administration workers and the values of reforms. Then, Prime Minister, The Greens consider that both the Great Plan Options and the State Budget should not base the relaunch of the economy on investment in infrastructures and matters with high environmental impacts and whose contributions to the development of the country are more than doubtful. We refer, for example, to the location of the new airport in Lisbon, in Montijo, to the unbridled exploitation of lithium, to the spread of intensive and superintensive crops, such as olive oil and peanuts, and also to the passivity with which the government is witnessing a serious environmental problem, but also social, which tends to turn the Natural Park of the Southwest Alentejano and Costa Vicentina into a real light of open plastic in the sky. In view of the climate emergency and the Government's efforts to combat climate change, I would ask you, Prime Minister, what the opening up of the Government to reassess how these serious environmental problems have been addressed, namely the incomprehensible insistence on bringing the new airport to the Montijo, which will be a monumental error at all levels, especially from the environmental point of view. So, Prime Minister, the question is very short and very objective: is there, or is it not, open by the Government to subject the construction of the new Lisbon airport to a strategic environmental assessment? Finally, Mr Prime Minister, the State Budget Act for 2020 determines that both the Statute of Justice Officers and the integration of the procedural recovery supplement and the creation of a differentiated retirement scheme were negotiated with the representative structures of their employees so that the process would be completed by the end of July of this year. Now, July is already there, August and September too, we are practically at the end of October and so far nothing. If the question of status can be longer, because it requires negotiations with the representative structures of workers, the same cannot be said of the integration of the procedural recovery supplement. On the other hand, on this subject, we had the opportunity to question the Minister of Justice in June. In response, the Minister said that the most representative trade union in the sector — we assume that it was referring to the Union of Judicial Officials — would be of the opinion that the procedural recovery supplement should not be dealt with separately, i.e. outside the statutory negotiations. However, this same union, immediately following, clarified that it has always defended the integration in the maturity of the procedural recovery supplement, reiterating that this does not lack any statutory negotiation. Therefore, Prime Minister, we want to know whether the government will meet this rule of the State Budget by 2020 by the end of the year, at least as far as the procedural recovery supplement is concerned. I shall conclude by commenting on what Mr Telmo Correia has suggested, which is not present in the Chamber at this time, but which, of course, is listening to us. Mr Telmo Correia brought The Greens to the discussion on political toys. I would like to say to Mr Telmo Correia that the Greens have nothing to do with absolutely irrevocable beer circuses, that they force the Prime Minister to amend the Organic Law of the Government to create the position of « Deputy Prime Minister », as did the CDS of Paulo Portas, the Deputy Prime Minister. [[PCP and PS Members applauded.]] [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Cecilia Meireles.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u106	Mr. Member, if that is a public proposal... [[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u107	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u108	Mr President, Mr José Luís Ferreira, we will of course continue to work. Fortunately, we started a great convergence on fundamental issues, including the priority of the issues related to climate change, animal welfare and, of course, public transport, not only urban and suburban, having a great investment effort in rail, which is translated into all strategic guidance documents, from the PNPOT (National Programme of Territorial Management Policy) to the National Energy and Climate Plan and the new National Investment Programme, and which is also specifically included in the Recovery and Resilient Plan, with such important investments as that of the extension to Loures of the rapid electric, which makes the connection between Odivelas and Lours, and that of the development of public transport networks in both metropolitan areas. In the National Investment Programme, it is even planned to create, already in the next multiannual financial framework, a new transport, of the same nature of the metro, in a city like Braga. This means that there is a serious, effective and contractual commitment in work, to effectively develop the railway project. We do not agree with the best environmental location of the airport, but we agree, for example, that it is essential, for the exploitation of natural resources, to carry out its assessment properly. Portugal has the strategic advantage of having an absolutely critical natural resource for the energy transition, which is lithium. This is obviously an economic advantage, and it is also an enormous contribution that we can make on a global scale to manage the energy transition. But, of course, the exploitation of lithium, such as the exploitation of any other natural resource, has to be done by seizing all environmental values, with which, perhaps and sometimes, conflicts. Therefore, decisions have already been taken by the Ministry of Environment and Climate Action to exclude lithium exploitation in some places at all, because the environmental conflict was highly unfavourable, and decided to undertake strategic environmental assessment of lithium exploitation. We also converged on the strengthened priority that this crisis imposes on combating poverty. That is why one of the most important steps we have already taken, in this proposal for a law, was the structural change in unemployment benefit, leaving the minimum threshold of unemployment benefit as the indexer of social support and becoming the threshold of poverty, in order to ensure that those who, throughout their lives, contributed their wages to ensure a decent allowance in the event of unemployment, are never below the threshold of poverty. [[Protests from BE José Moura Soeiro.]] This is a structural change of the greatest importance. We are not talking about an extraordinary benefit to deal with this crisis that we are experiencing, but a fundamental, permanent change that will remain beyond this crisis and that will surely be one of the most important marks of the State Budget law for 2021. [[P.S.'s applause.]] With regard to Public Administration, there are important steps we will take. It is true that — it is not worth hiding – it is not worth, either the economic evolution of the year 2020, whether a negative inflation, or the budgetary pressure that the response to the crisis imposed, necessarily force us to reschedule the recovery programme that we had for all the salaries of the Public Administration. However, despite the huge crisis we are facing, despite the fact that there is no huge increase in taxes, despite the fact that there are no cuts in pensions and despite the fact that there are no such measures which the right has taken to deal with budgetary pressures,... [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Telmo Correia.]] ... the salary mass, as a whole of the Public Administration, will increase by 3, 5 % in 2021, either through new contracts, either through promotions or through progressions, or also through the proposal that we present to regulate, from now on, the health allowance, in particular for workers in the waste and sanitation sectors, which are exposed to very significant risks to their health and which are an essential basis of services equally essential to the population. It has been waiting for years for its regulations, so that they can benefit, in all municipalities and also in the Central Administration, from what happens only in some municipalities, such as, for example, in the city of Lisbon. As for the fight we are going to pursue for the overall recovery of wages, there are two political commitments that we have made very important. One of them is, despite the crisis, to maintain the trajectory of the convergence of the increase of the national minimum wage to the 750 €, not at the pace we had last year, but at a rate that is the average of the increases we had in the previous legislation. We also guarantee the protection of 3 million workers with the moratorium on the expiry of collective labour conventions, which ensures their protection for two years, preventing workers from being forced to renegotiate collective bargaining in a fragile situation, so that, even in this crisis situation, they can see their negotiating position strengthened, to keep social dialogue and negotiation alive. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u109	I now give the floor to Mr. André Ventura, from arrive.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u110	Mr President, Prime Minister, I was hoping to see you in the Azores. I was sorry I wasn't going to be there with us. Perhaps he began to understand that it was the end of the socialist regime, not only in the region as well as on the continent. [[Protests of PS Members.]] Mr. Prime Minister surprises us every day. It's true! Every day! Today, he says that he is surprised by the Left Block, when in 2009 it is his words – he said: « The Left Block is an opportunistic party, unable to assume its responsibilities ». Are you today complaining that you are an opportunistic party, unable to assume your responsibilities? Oh, my God! Making just the name of a program you've been in, it's the square of the circle, Mr. Prime Minister! But he also said that this is the social budget that the country needs. These are your words, from yesterday evening to evening, on a Portuguese television channel. This is the Budget that leaves 2, 1 million pensioners without updating in their pensions. I repeat, 2, 1 million pensions will not be updated this year, while new social benefits are created and the social income of insertion continues to pay everything and something else, for this country outside. And pensioners see their money, fair, from the work of a lifetime, without being updated. Without wanting to talk a lot about the Azores, Prime Minister, but still about the Azores, I would say that it is a region where more than 200,000 people live and where almost 20% live in social support and benefits. Now, come and tell pensioners that they have no money to update their pensions, because half of the country is living on subsidies paid by others. It is what is called: to take out who works and give to those who don't want to do anything at all. But, Prime Minister, he also told us that in 2019 all Portuguese would have a family doctor. All of them! There wouldn't be one who didn't have! For by the end of 2020 there are one million Portuguese people without a family doctor, the same number as when Prime Minister Antonio Costa entered the government. What does this Budget answer to that? Oh, my God! There, the Left Block is right: absolutely nothing, because it does not offer a single solution about the family doctors for the Portuguese. I would not let Mr. Prime Minister tell you this: Mr. Prime Minister told me, at the beginning of this legislature, that this would be a great fight against corruption. When we look at this State budget, we see that there is an article on the fight against corruption — an article! — which says that it will take the necessary initiatives and the appropriate efforts to combat corruption. It seems to be a joke but it is not. It is the State budget in Portugal for 2021. The same country that leaves the President of the Court of Auditors, who pulls out directors of the judicial police,... [[Protests by PS MP João Paulo Correia.]] ... brings, now, a hand full of nothing in the fight against corruption. Mr. Prime Minister likes graphics. I have one here for you, too. That's it. [[At this moment, the speaker displayed a blank sheet.]] This is what the Socialist Government is giving in the fight against corruption this year. I show everyone, so they can see! It is a blank leaf in the fight against one of the great evils that afflicts this country! Not only turn him to the left, turn him to everyone, so that they can see the shame that it is a State budget that was said to combat corruption and that nothing does in this fight. That is what the Portuguese liked to see today, Prime Minister, answered. Regardless of who will support or approve this budget, there is one thing on which we are sure: within six months, your government will not continue to function and the Portuguese will demand responsibilities for those who approve this State budget.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u111	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u112	Mr President, Mr André Ventura, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u113	About the Azores, first!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u114	I see that the honourable Member has been in love with the Azores.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u115	I was already there!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u116	I must tell you this: although it is a late passion, it is worth more than ever, because I assure you that the Azores, which I have known for many years, deserve a passion. [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u117	It is a shame to have wasted so many years without that passion, but, as a young person, it is still in time. Therefore, take advantage of the fact that the Azores are, in fact, a jewel in the crown of the Portuguese Republic. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr André Ventura, I was a little confused with your concern for pensioners and your view of social benefits, because I don't know if your concern for pensioners is only with those of the contribution schemes, i.e. those pensioners who, throughout their lives, have contributed to form their pensions, or if your concern for pensioners is with everyone...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u118	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u119	So it's not for everyone. So those who have been, over the years, people who, for example,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u120	They didn't do anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u121	How?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u122	They didn't do anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u123	Ah, that did nothing... Mr. Member, I don't know if you have a good idea that an important part of our pensioners are pensioners who did not contribute to the formation of their contribution career either because they lived and worked in time where there were no discounts for social security,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CH Member's Protests André Ventura.]] ... either because they are, for example, elderly women who are part of a generation where, for themselves, doing nothing was to be a housekeeper and to ensure the livelihood, the laundry of the house and to take care of the children and their families. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr President, when you talk about pensioners, do not forget that many of them are not pensioners of the tax system and are entitled to pension. This is a right that must be sacred, because Portugal is a social state where everyone has the right to dignity and where that dignity will be guaranteed to all. [[P.S.'s applause.]] However, Mr President, the Social Security Bases Act defines a pension updating formula which guarantees today's pensions and future pensions, and this formula, applied strictly to the year 2021, would not allow any increase in pensions, either because in 2020 the economic recession did not allow economic growth, which allows the increase in pensions, or because inflation was negative. But thanks to this bill, there will be an increase to 1 million and 900 thousand pensioners, an extraordinary increase of more than 10 € monthly, which we propose from August but which, according to the Portuguese Communist Party, will enter into force on 1 January, provided that the State Budget is approved, as we wish, in a global final vote. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And, Mr. Member, how happy we would be if corruption were to resolve with 10 articles in the State budget! If he resolves corruption with articles in the State budget, he writes them, introduces them, submits them to the speciality vote and, I am sure, will have unanimity in this House. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Unfortunately, the fight against corruption is not resolved with articles in the State budget.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u124	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u125	The fight against corruption is strengthened, as we have done, i.e. by unlocking the competitions for the admission of new inspectors to the judiciary, unlocking the possibility of recourse to the reserve of the judicial police, strengthening the means of combating corruption in the judicial police. This is how we create conditions for effective investigation. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is why we have in public debate the National Strategy for Combating Corruption, to strengthen this capacity. Finally, I want to say the following: it is true, Mr, we did not achieve our goal of all Portuguese, all registered users of the National Health Service, to have a family doctor. On the one hand, we did not achieve this because of the difficulty in filling the number of vacancies in the specialty of General and Family Medicine, and on the other, we did not achieve it, especially for another reason: because we increased the number of users of the National Health Service to 535 000, and we did so because we ensured access to the National Health Service to all those who reside in Portugal, whether national or non-national, because everyone living in our country has to be guaranteed the right to health. No one can be denied the right to health. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I know you don't like it, but it's like that in a decent society. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u126	To speak in this first round, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u127	Mr President, Prime Minister, in a crisis there is nothing more important than the trust people have in those who are making decisions. The Government, here at the time of the presentation of the PEES ( Economic and Social Stabilization Programme ) and the Supplementary Budget, has defined that the fight against this crisis would have three phases: the emergency, the stabilization programme and the recovery one. I do not know what the stage in which Mr Prime Minister thinks we are, but this budget shows to the satisfaction that we are certainly not in the recovery phase, because that requires action to be directed towards companies, because only with these measures can there be recovery of the economy and employment, employment and employment. So let us see what Mr Prime Minister, in his speech, said about measures directed to companies: he spoke of moratoriums and COVID credit lines, two ways, not very pleasant, to push with the belly; he spoke of the value of the buildings, the transmissions of and to the professional sphere, a measure which is a little strange coming from a government which last year rose the tax burden on these activities, especially the local housing, from 35 % to 50 % — I think that the people to whom this measure is addressed would prefer to have come back to the regime that was two years ago — and finally spoke of the 'VATucher' tax credit for investment and autonomous taxation, which will not apply to SMEs with losses. These three measures together have a total cost that is half — Mr Prime Minister, half! — what is estimated to be the increase in the public service salary in 2021. For companies there is half of what will be given as a payroll increase to public service and this increase in public service is 20 times more than what will be applied in IRS Youth or in the so-called IRS Babies, created last year to combat the effect of escaping talent or demographic problems. This shows the priorities of this budget. And I no longer speak of the EUR 1700 million that, for now, will be buried in the TAP, while there are endless queues of waiting for millions of consultations, for hundreds of thousands of surgeries and there are more than 7,000 dead to explain since the beginning of the pandemic. With all this, Prime Minister, does it not seem normal for the Portuguese, when they look at the government, instead of feeling such confidence, what they feel is disorientation?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u128	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u129	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u130	Mr President, Mr Cotrim de Figueiredo, thank you very much for your questions. I believe that the Portuguese when looking at this proposal for State Budget what they see is coherence and continuity of the policy we started in November 2015, which allowed us to turn the page of austerity, return to the country more growth, regain convergence with the European Union in 2017, 2018, 2019 and still in January and February 2020, create more and better employment, reducing inequalities and having the right accounts, recovering the international credibility of our country and having the first budgetary surplus. What the country sees when it looks at this proposal for State Budget law is the same government that has pursued this policy and that since March it has faced the best way that a crisis that no one has ever imagined and that no one has ever faced, either from the point of view of the health challenge, with the severity of the pandemic, or also with this economic and social dimension. Mr President, I will never forget, because it was the most impressive conversation we had on the eve of the day when I announced the closing of schools, when he said to me: « António, do not lose a second, because we will have 35 000 deaths if nothing is done immediately». This was your scenario at that time, but fortunately, the country is still far from that catastrophic dimension, far away, and we will continue to work to support those who in the front line — doctors, nurses, diagnostic technicians, technical assistants, operational assistants, all health professionals — are doing their best to strengthen the National Health Service and ensure the best possible response to this pandemic. Unfortunately, we cannot even say that it is a national base crisis, because this is a crisis that has hit the whole world and the whole global economy. You're talking about TAP. Mr, 80% of the flights are cancelled worldwide! There's a general civil aviation crisis! Especially for someone who for so many years has worked in the area of tourism, let me tell you that it is not appropriate and correct to talk about TAP and the reality of TAP today, not knowing what the reality of civil aviation and the tourism sector around the world is. [[P.S.'s applause.]] So what we are going to do, as we have proved to be the right strategy over the past five years, is not to resume austerity, but rather to continue to support family income, to continue to support employment and to continue to support investment, because this is the best support we can give to businesses. And do the math: only in terms of support for employment and recovery do we have more than 900 million euros that are allocated to companies. They are not only lines of credit with State guarantee, they are not only moratoriums, they are also substantial transfers lost to support employment and to support recovery. And we also have the Recovery and Resilience Plan, which supports companies in the energy transition, decarbonization, the transition to the digital economy, the increase in productive potential. Yes, we know that companies are essential for economic growth and job creation. Now there is one thing we also know: there are no companies, there is no job creation, there is no business that prospers if we do not defend employment and if we do not defend the income of families. Yes, especially in the context of a strong international crisis, do not have the slightest doubt, even a liberal can not hesitate to define as a priority to support domestic demand, because, when the crisis is global, it is also here that we build the recovery of the economy, with the support of our companies. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u131	We are now entering the second round of questions, six of which are registered. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr Adam Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u132	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, Mr Rui Rio has raised two very specific questions, which have all the time when the State Budget is being discussed, and which have to do with the money to be put in the New Bank and TAP in 2021. It's money from the Portuguese, it's money that has to be well explained to the Portuguese, but you, Mr. Prime Minister, said they're minor issues, they're small questions. So let's see if we understand ourselves: to know how and how this money is going to be placed, how much money is, after all, for the New Bank and for the TAP, for the Prime Minister, are small questions. That is, 3800 million, plus 1200 million, plus 500 million, which gives a total of about 5600 million Portuguese money to the New Bank and to the TAP, to the Prime Minister, are minor issues. We are really strange, Mr Prime Minister, that your conception of minor issues and small questions. But let me also talk to you about a big issue that you did not bring here in your speech - I think it is a lot because of ideological prejudice, but it is time, Mr Prime Minister, at a time when Portugal and the Portuguese are whipped by this pandemic, which break down the walls of these ideological prejudices - which has to do with the necessary cooperation at all levels in Portuguese society. Mr. Prime Minister, we all realize that this pandemic affects all and in order to face it we must mobilize all, support all, with the help of all, Mr. Prime Minister. Therefore, it is not clear that, in the case of the social equipment of the private institutions of social solidarity, the homes of the elderly or the continuing care centres are not adequately envisaged, in budgetary terms, for 2021. The money planned will increase only 2 %, which, if we consider the increase in inflation to 2021 and the possible increase in the minimum wage, will mean that these 2 % are absorbed, then there is no money to expand response, to have more equipment, more homes, which are necessary for this tragedy, which is currently entering the homes and is seriously affecting our older citizens, to have a situation of obstruction. There is an answer by the State. There is therefore a lack of cooperation between the various levels, such as lack of health. In the PSD, we bet that the National Health Service has to be the major source of response. Apparently, it is not at all envisaged the need or capacity to respond with the means we need. But here too, Mr Prime Minister, there is a question. At a time when the National Health Service is virtually exhausted from its ability to respond to the pandemic and at the moment well proven, when it is unable to respond to current requirements — of accessibility to consultations, to surgeries — my question is this: why not make this cooperation, this correlation between the public sector, the National Health Service, and the social sector and the private sector? What are you trying to break down these ideological walls, which are obviously not a good answer to what the Portuguese need? The question, indeed, is this: what is the government waiting for to respond in this cooperative way, in this way solidarity, to what is necessary to meet the needs of the Portuguese people? The fight must be everyone's, Mr. Prime Minister. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u133	You now have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr Filipe Neto Brandão, of the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u134	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have discussed the proposal for a State budget for 2021 in the middle of the economic crisis, as a result of the fight against pandemic, which results in an external shock to the economy, without any precedent, in terms of magnitude, or in terms of synchronisation. Paraphrasing a well-known thinker, we live a period in which «uncertainty is the only certainty». There are, of course, those who, recognizing this reality, do not want to recognize its effects and consequences. We are talking about a crisis which is, at the same time, a crisis in supply, a result of various restrictions on economic activity, and a crisis in demand, a result of multiple fears and more or less intense confinements. Prudence and re-establishment of confidence are therefore vital for the recovery of the economy, in a scenario in which the unpredictable nature of the pandemic will be a constant. The government's option not to increase taxes, on the contrary, to protect incomes and not to cut public expenditure, instead encouraging public investment, is well revealing the contrast with the vision of those — it was the case of the PSD leader, recently — who, in the face of adversity, are already proposing to prevent the rise of the minimum wage and to cut into expenditure, thus adding to the crisis. This budget, while at the same time reducing taxes — on a permanent basis, on an extraordinary basis — defends the most vulnerable. in a sentence, this Budget will obviously not make everything perfect, but it will allow many things to continue to improve. And do so - I stress - as the Council of Public Finance notes in the analysis which was distributed yesterday in this Parliament, with a proposal for a State budget in which it is found - and I quote - the 'political will to maintain control over the growth of public debt, in order to ensure the maintenance of budgetary sustainability, maintaining credibility and ensuring financing costs that continue at low and appropriate levels'. Purposes — both — of greater relevance to the future of the country and which can never be disregarded. Mr. Prime Minister, I conclude by saying that it is legitimate for others to be able to look at this State budget and think that it could go further on the paths started in 2015 and that it continues to crawl. We would, perhaps, go further in that perspective, but running the risk of, without support, we would come back forward. What would no longer be legitimate—and even understandable—is that, on the pretext of wanting to go further, the consequence could be that we should not go anywhere. You will certainly agree, Mr Prime Minister — and that is the question I am giving you — that is what would happen if this budget were not to be approved. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u135	You have the floor now, too, to ask for clarification, Mr José Manuel Pureza, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u136	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, would like to make two comments and then, in the end, leave a question. First remark: Mr. Prime Minister recently insisted on my comrade Catarina Martins' response to the inverted fact that the Left Block only wanted to support 100 000 people in the crisis. Mr Prime Minister, we must respect each other for the dialogue we make with each other. The Left Block knows the Socialist Party's proposal, covering 175 000 people, at a cost of 450 million, and the Socialist Party knows the Block's proposal and knows that, in honor of the truth, it was designed to cover 200 000 people, including the extension of the unemployment allowance and creating a new social benefit with the cost of 800 million. Mr. Prime Minister knows it is. That's what we're talking about, in fact, is the PowerPoint that's consulting again. And I wanted to challenge Mr. Prime Minister to have this PowerPoint distributed, which made it necessary to display, so that everyone can see exactly what is there and how this I have just said is what is, crystallly, planned there. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u137	Secondly, Mr Prime Minister, I would like to leave you with another comment. Mr. Prime Minister encouraged his parliamentary bench — which is perfectly legitimate, it is understood, claiming that the Left Block « desert on the left to join the right in the vote of this State Budget ». Well, Mr. Prime Minister, I wanted to talk to you about a systematic desertion of the PS to join the right. I just wanted to talk to you about the systematic partnership between the Socialist Party and the right in matters of labour law.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u138	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u139	What stands out is the government's unmovable determination to maintain, in this budget, the attacks on the work imposed by the troika and the Government of the PSD and the CDS-PP, and that deserves our frontal criticism, as you know. If there is something we have learned from this last crisis, Prime Minister, it was that the compression of labour rights was an essential part of the strategy of deepening our economy and society. Between 2015 and 2019, we joined forces with those who wanted to reverse this path and make the rights of work an essential lever of the reconstruction of the economy and of the wager in social cohesion. A path that has begun, but which quickly highlighted limits that the Socialist Party has never understood to be frank. Now that the social crisis more demands that the deepening of this path be the centre of politics, this proposal for the State Budget deviates from it and shows a government determined to maintain in law the attacks imposed by the troika and the right government on the world of work. That is how the Government rejected the Socialist Party's traditional proposal to calculate the value of unemployment benefit on wages and not on IAS. Moreover, the Government rejected the Left Block proposal to return to the value of redundancies prior to 2012. on this date, 2012, when the PSD and the CDS were beyond the troika and passed this value from 20 to 12 days of salary per year of seniority, the PS clearly expressed its indignation—an indignation, indeed, fair. At the time, Mr Nuno Sá said: "The PS has never made this commitment in the memorandum of understanding. This is rigour, this is the truth... ».
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u140	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u141	Mr President, I believe that my time will be able to cut off in the general time of the bench. I asked for that tolerance.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u142	Mr. Deputies, you're discounting the rest of the time, but the rules are 2 minutes in time to ask for clarifications and you're going double.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u143	Of course, Mr. President. I'll finish. Mr Nuno Sá said: "The PS has never made this commitment in the memorandum of understanding. That's rigour, that's the truth. We continue to disagree with this proposal'. And Vieira da Silva won: « It is false that what was foreseen in the memorandum is realized by this legislation, because no one recognizes it, not even the social partners». This was in 2012. Now, they make your proposal that went beyond the troika. This is, of course, a question of PS with itself, but the left cannot silence this choice of PS and be pleasing to it. For our part, we have left you, Prime Minister, a very simple question for which we are asking for a very direct answer: why has the Government rejected the proposal to repeal this humiliating rule, which neither the troika wanted and which associates the PS with the worst of the PSD/CDS-PP government? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u144	You have the floor to ask for clarifications by Mr João Oliveira of the CFP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u145	Mr President, Prime Minister, we have already stated in this debate that the evaluation of the CFP is that the Budget does not respond to national needs and problems. in this national reality, they especially weigh the needs and problems of workers, and that was what I wanted to question him. It is true that many of the measures to respond to the problems of workers go beyond the budget. The general increase in wages for all workers, including the national minimum wage, the repeal of heavy labour legislation, the defence of collective bargaining are examples of these measures which, being beyond the budget, cannot fail to be considered to assess the overall response to national problems. But even in the State Budget, there are solutions that need to be considered. The guarantee of 100 % wages must be considered, contrary to what happened to the Supplementary Budget and the cuts imposed by the Layoff. It is necessary to ensure the suspension of redundancies, as well as the increase in wages and the recovery of careers in the Public Administration, not only to meet the existing needs of public administration workers, but also to ensure the improvement of the response of public services. It is necessary to consider the supplement for workers of essential services, without discrimination and without limiting themselves to only a part of the health workers, and to cover the workers to whom it is required to continue to work even in obvious risk situations, such as those of response to the epidemic, and covering sectors such as health, security forces and services, firefighters, social equipment, urban cleaning and hygiene workers and waste collection, among others. It is necessary to consider the strengthening of workers for public services, with the recruitment in the SNS and schools, without embalming with the numbers, Mr Prime Minister, ensuring to public services possibilities for rapid recruitment, with the increase of workers—not including those who, of course, already perform functions—and ensuring that this is not dependent on successive authorizations from the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Guardianship, which hinder and hinder the hiring and binding of workers. And, of course, Mr Prime Minister, it is also necessary to consider the linkage of workers temporarily hired in public services in the period of combatting the epidemic, considering the need to combat precariousness, which was once again a challenge in the Public Administration, with the use of employment-inclusion contracts and green receipts. The inclusion of these measures in the State budget is part of the overall response to national problems and is an indispensable option for the Budget to help reverse the worsening of the national situation that is expected. It is before solutions such as these that the government and the PS have the responsibility to clarify the options they want to make and the convergences they want to build. The workers and the people are waiting for answers to their problems and, Mr Prime Minister — to use an expression that has been well repeated — workers would not understand that this opportunity was wasted on having a Budget capable of ensuring a response to the problems that are meaningful. The question that arises is what choices the government and the PS will make. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u146	You have the floor to make requests for clarification, Mrs Cecilia Meireles.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u147	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I come here, Prime Minister, in a rather focused way, to ask you about a promise you made in 2019 — I know it seems to have been a long time ago, but it was just another year ago — at the time of the Stability Programme. Indeed, before the elections, the Prime Minister and his Government committed themselves to a reduction in IRS by EUR 200 million. This promise, made before the elections, now seems a little forgotten in times of pandemic, but it is less than one year old. Therefore, I have no doubt that this promise—maybe they know why—will certainly not be in the claim book of any of their partners, nor in any of these PowerPoints. But this promise has been made and it is important, Prime Minister. It is important that you explain, when you talk so much about income policy, why you never talk about the possibility of charging less IRS to families, according to the income you have.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u148	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u149	Mr. Prime Minister, when he talks about income policy, he talks about taxing and charging exactly the same way and then on the allocation by the State and the Government of subsidies. They're two very different visions. I would like to understand why this promise is not fulfilled. Mr Prime Minister, I would also like to ask you now why the only tax relief, which is in fact in the joint — because one comes from the past, in the case of electricity, and the other, the retention in the source, is a mere promise and is not there — it is in VAT, in a measure called 'VATucher'. What does that mean? It means that the State gives tax relief to people who can and can choose to spend on restaurants, hotels and culture. Here, Prime Minister, I have to tell you the following: we all realize the seriousness and difficulties of the situation, but it becomes increasingly difficult to understand what the contrasts and inconsistency are. I understand the need not to let the tourism sector die, but I cannot see that a government and a state advise people to stay at home — in some cases, it prohibits them from leaving home — and at the same time tells them: « Attention, we have a tax relief here, but only if they leave home to go to restaurants, hotels and cultural shows». Mr. Prime Minister, both things at the same time are completely inconsistent! The question that I leave here, Prime Minister — more than one question, is a challenge — is whether it is possible that this tax relief in the IRS is given to people who can choose to go to restaurants, but also to those who have no money to leave home and who are afflicted with money to go to the supermarket. Let this relief be given to all people and that they are making their choices. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u150	To conclude this round of requests for clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Bebiana Cunha of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u151	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, very briefly, we could not fail to bring you, in this second round, some questions about some social scourges, starting from the people who are homeless. In last year's State budget, we have managed to ensure that answers are included, firstly, in order to ensure housing for these people. In this Budget too, for the general part, we have managed, in dialogue, to establish a target of 600 people, which must be reached in 2021. But it is essential that, in the field of expertise, we are in fact seeking to ensure the implementation of these projects by facilitating, disbursing and providing the necessary support to the organizations that concur with them. Then I would like to move on to another scourge on which we understand that, in the field of specialty, it is still necessary to go, which is linked to the fight against trafficking in human beings, and for which, in general, there is still nothing in this budget. Mr Prime Minister has already mentioned a proposal to strengthen the judiciary, in particular in the fight against corruption, to meet one of the NAP's proposals. We hope that, in the field of expertise, we can also work on this same reinforcement. Finally, I also wanted to say that there is an episode in 2020 that will remain in the memory of all Portuguese people and that it is ultimately related to animal protection and what happened in Santo Tirso. If, in this Budget, in general, we have already achieved some progress in public responses to animal protection, we believe that, in the field of specialty, we still need to make a way to ensure a national sterilization programme and to ensure more responses to animal protection associations, which are very important in our country. We therefore want to know, Prime Minister, whether it is in fact available to make progress on these matters in the field of expertise. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u152	Having ended this round of questions, you have the floor to answer, Mr Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u153	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm gonna try to be very telegraphy. Mr Adam Silva, cooperation is fundamental and that is why this year we have made an agreement with the institutions of the solidarity and social sector for an update of 5, 5 % of the cooperation agreements, i.e. a reinforcement of EUR 71 million. In the State budget for 2021, social action has a boost of 20 % with more than EUR 120 million. If you carefully read the Recovery and Resilience Plan, to which you have not linked any, you can verify that it even provides 420 million more to be invested in partnership with the IPSS (private institutions of social solidarity ), mutuality and mercy over the next six years. On the question of the private and social sector in combating pandemics, I mean that these, from the first hour, have been mobilized. More than 50 % of the tests have been carried out in the private sector and, soon at the beginning of the crisis, an accession agreement was signed, signed between each ARS (Regional Health Administration ) and the private sector, which allows the use of the private sector for the treatment of COVID patients and non-COVID patients whenever necessary. That is what is agreed and that is what will be done if and when necessary. Mr. José Manuel Pureza, let us be clear: we have to compare what is comparable. I didn't talk about unemployment benefit... [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u154	I spoke about the measure which is comparable, in terms of the new social benefit, and who wrote '100 million euros' was not me, it was the one who disclosed this document. [[BE's protests.]] Mr President, you should certainly know — although you have not participated directly in the negotiations, you must be well informed — that, even on Sunday, you have been informed in writing to the Left Block that, in addition to what is contained in the bill, the Government accepted and was available to enable — as it will make possible — an extension of this social benefit, in order to cover all those who have unemployment benefits and will lose it in 2021, regardless of the condition of resources. [[BE's protests.]] This measure will cover not 100 000 people, but 258 000 people, with a value not of EUR 420 million, but of EUR 633 million. This is the reality, sir! [[P.S.'s applause.]] As regards labour, Mr President, we are always in time, because, as we have explained — there is a document delivered to the Left Block — not being a matter included in the State Budget Act, we are fully available, either between the Government and the Left Block, or between the PS and the Left Block, to sign a document for the revision of the legislation of work on the horizon of the legislature, which you can certainly have a chance to know. Mr. João Oliveira, ask: what options? Well, the key option is to work, particularly with the Portuguese Communist Party, so that, in the specialty, we try to respond to what the CFP identifies as shortcomings and limitations in our proposal. There are subjects which you have mentioned here on which we are available to continue to work, such as matters relating to the full coverage of the salary of those who are in a work-reduction situation, issues relating to contracts in schools and to the strengthening of other public services. These are subjects on which we will certainly go to work so that we can find good answers. Mrs Cecilia Meireles, it is curious that, having been Secretary of State in a government that made a huge increase in taxes, in the words of the then Minister of Finance, I am now so worried about the IRS. It is true that in this State budget we have not fulfilled our commitment to update the steps, but we have saved, in IRS, more than EUR 200 million, either by means of relief in the retention of the source, or by means of the 'VATucher', which well mentioned. However, if the accounts are to be made properly, you will find that, from the State budget for 2016 to the State budget for 2020, we have reduced by EUR 1 billion the taxes we charge to the Portuguese workers in the IRS. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Finally, Mrs Bebiana Cunha, we accompany the NAP in its dual concern. In order to strengthen the response to homeless people, in the bill we have planned to strengthen more than 600 vacancies in the Housing First programme and we have also included in the Recovery and Resilience Plan a specific measure in the area of housing for urgent and temporary accommodation, with 186 million euros to invest over the next six years. With regard to animal recovery centres, we have already noted that the NAP considers insufficient the amount of EUR 5 million that we have entered in the Budget. We have also conveyed to the NAP that we are available, as a specialist, to strengthen this money in order to ensure proper treatment for erring animals and to prevent certain situations through an active policy of animal sterilization, which is absolutely essential to ensure the well-being of all. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice-President Antonio Filipe.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u155	We will now enter a third round of questions to Mr Prime Minister, who already has six entries. You have the floor, to this end, Mrs Mariana Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u156	Mr President, Prime Minister, the discussion of the State budget for 2021 takes place at a time of great demand, when social and economic problems worsen every day. We do not ignore that unemployment is rising, that the economy is suffering from instability, that poverty is growing more strongly in families, which, even at work, are impoverished. But, Prime Minister, it's not worth everything! We live the time to make correct investment options, because the planet is exhausted from so much warning and will not stand an immediate view of the very short term. The time we live requires a turn, a look at the country. This is the time when the promises of sustainability, of concern to the conservation of nature and biodiversity or even to the promotion of less polluting companies should come out of play. It is essential to have the courage to say no to the temptation to kill the golden hen! Mr. Prime Minister, The Greens maintain the fight against the unbridled exploitation of lithium in Portugal with persistence and as a flag of struggle, in the work of the parliamentary group and among the people, listening to them, knowing their difficulties, realizing what they live and the effort they make to live in these places, which only interest the central power when it intends to disintegrate them, to go there seeking wealth, in the name of a supposed national good. This is the struggle we are also working on at the bottom of the staircase, today, with an exhibition that reveals the negative impacts, for the localities and for the populations, of the exploitation of lithium and associated minerals. The Greens proposed a strategic environmental assessment, the Government rejected, the PS Parliamentary Group voted against and did not consist of the State budget for 2020. But today, in response to the Greens and Mr. José Luís Ferreira, Mr. Prime Minister admits that he will make a strategic environmental assessment for the exploitation of lithium and associated minerals. Once again, what we have found is that it is worth fighting and that the fight between the Greens and the people has made progress today. However, we must not fail to warn that, in this strategic environmental assessment, the three locations have to have signed contracts. So let's not forget, they are: Caves of Barroso, Montalegre and Argemela. Mr Prime Minister, however, there are a few questions I cannot but ask. What strategic environmental assessment are we talking about? Does the government undertake that nothing will move forward until it is completed? It is that, Prime Minister, a strategic environmental assessment process is not done in half a dozen months, until you have to go through all legal procedures such as, for example, going to public consultation, that if the option is the one of greater transparency. what we have witnessed in this process is that the government has already given so many piruettes that we doubt. And, Mr. Prime Minister, another flag of the Greens, which is not today, but long ago: the railway. In the State budget for 2021, several million are planned for the railway. However, there are some doubts. The first is to know what the results will be, immediately, when people need to feel safe in the use of public transport, when we need the option to go through choosing the train, what impacts this State budget will have on this immediate need. Is there going to be any line of trains, all over the country, circulating more frequently, with more comfort, with more security? The situation that we are living today requires immediate answers, cannot continue to push forward to the distant future.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u157	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Maria Begonha.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u158	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, is in this scenario of unprecedented crisis of pandemic, of fighting for the recovery of the country, and when we discuss one of the most important instruments that implement governance priorities, it is necessary to question what vision this Budget projects on the present and future challenges of the new generations. It is precisely today, and here, that we should ask the question that the right has never asked when it ran with total social insensitivity the last crisis, which has affected much especially youth: what impact do the decisions we make today, in the present, and from here to a decade, for young Portuguese people? A whole generation of this country has completed academic pathways, sought the first job or the first house to lease to the shadow of a crisis in the euro area, a Memorandum of Troika and a government that has only responded to the new generations with two answers: austerity and emigration. Today, thinking of this same generation, we ask the same question about the impact of the government's options on the management of this crisis, without disguise the actual difficulties of the present, but with the certainty that the answers do not remain because of the desist and conformism. In fact, the crisis and the pandemic cannot deviate from the great challenges young people face in our country, which, on the contrary, have intensified their urgency and must therefore double our determination. The determination to reject a country where not all young people can qualify and therefore invest in school and higher education, the determination to reject that the most qualified generation is always intended to face unemployment, the multiple forms of precariousness, social disprotection and also low wages. contrary to what the leader of the major opposition party says, Dr. Rui Rio, who does not care that young people in their first and second jobs receive low and poorly paid wages in the PS we have been fighting this reality since 2015. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Fortunately, it is not in the PSD that young people have to put their trust and hope in solving their problems, because, clearly, despite Dr. Rui Rio's not disturbing the conformed vision that his generation could live better than this, it is a vision that we reject in the Socialist Party. We also reject that there are generations that are destined not to be able to pay rent or buy home, that are not to be able to leave home or to be emancipated when they want, but late, the more they become a family. It is also our determination to break the cycle of a History that is already written for the generations of 20 and 30 years, that they will live worse than the previous generation, being pointed out as one of the great victims of this pandemic crisis in loss of income. Breaking this cycle is one of the main objectives of this government and that continues in this budget. Mr. Prime Minister, there is a generation that cannot suffer and recover from the effects of this crisis until the age of 40 and a new generation facing uncertainty about the future, which today is continuing its studies, which seeks the first job and the first opportunities and for which, unquestionably, future investment in combating precariousness and job creation, investment in accessible housing, better support and conditions for study are fundamental and urgent policies and options. I therefore ask you to address fundamental choices in this State budget as part of the strategy of responding to the challenges of young Portuguese people, who have so often less voice in power structures to influence policies on their future, but who are not less attentive, more disinterested, critical or aware that this debate interests them and that we will have a chance, today, or even during the specialty, to have a budget with a positive impact on their lives, in the present and in the future. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u159	To ask for clarification, you now have the floor of Mrs. Joana Mortágua.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u160	Mr President, Prime Minister, in difficult times there is an additional requirement to speak to the country with truth, with all the truth and not only with what is convenient. In 2020, the government said it needed an additional budget to deal with the pandemic, and it had it. We are practically in November and the pandemic is not only controlled as it increasingly requires the SNS. There are millions of consultations, exams and surgeries behind schedule, and the fact is that the State Budget for 2021, which may have many sections in the field of health, in transfers to the National Health Service is below what was planned for 2020, including the Supplementary Budget. The truth is that there may be many health headings, but the government only plans to transfer more EUR 4 million to the SNS than it did in 2020. What this means is that, in order to do everything you haven't been able to do yet, and most of all what is needed, the government has 0, 03 % increase in transfers to the SNS, because in fact it is the SNS that responds to people, it is the SNS that takes care of health. The truth is that in 2020 the government left the SNS to lose doctors. And Mr. Prime Minister will say: « It was not the government, it was the annual variability ». Well, the annual variability has led the SNS to lose doctors and the government has done nothing to prevent it.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u161	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u162	Don't!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u163	And I knew very well that I could have responded to the proposal of the Doctors' Left Block of full dedication to avoid the bleeding of specialists, and he did not. And not only did he not do it as in 2021, he foresees less additional money to strengthen the hiring of professionals, which must be done from January onwards, and therefore, throughout the year will be paid less additional money, compared to what was planned for 2020, for contracts that only started in the fall. We are in the middle of a pandemic and the government and the country continue to walk around the same 4200 professionals, who already needed the SNS for normality, all the more now to face this storm! And even if these 4200 are a net increase, which means that they will be added to the precariouss that will be linked and that will replace those that will be reformed during 2020 — the numbers do not show this — but even if it is a net increase, there is no proof and, so far, there is no plan that has been presented to believe that it is possible to find these doctors and that it is possible to overcome the problem of empty vacancies in the SNS contests and of SNS specialists. Mr. Prime Minister, what separates us is not a disagreement about the interpretation of numbers. And let no one be deceived: the budgetary alternative that is being discussed here is whether, in 2021, the SNS responds to the country or whether the SNS fails to the country in 2021. The response to the pandemic does not support a Continuity Budget, the response to the pandemic is not made with a Stabilization Budget. And changing the angle on numbers will not change the reality of hospitals, people in hospitals are not attended by vacancies of doctors announced, people in hospitals are attended by doctors, nurses, operational assistants, who will continue to receive little more than the minimum wage. We are in full pandemic and everything has changed. Even if the government does not want to admit, the country understands that everything has changed, and it is no longer worth it, it is no longer enough to say that it will be all right. The minimum requirement today is very much. It may seem a lot and certainly it will be a lot, but the minimum that is required today is the limit below which the SNS begins to leave people behind. And, therefore, the minimum for 2021 is a Budget that does not leave the SNS behind. The government has negotiated six budgets with the Left Block and knows perfectly that we do not do it at least. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u164	Mr Duarte Alves has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u165	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, in a situation like the one we live in, the Budget must also respond to the country's public investment needs. This must be the priority rather than the obsession with the accelerated reduction of the deficit. So I ask you, Prime Minister: what commitment do you make to thousands of health professionals, who see your mission making it difficult for lack of investment in facilities and in the modernization and renovation of equipment? How does the government, in the face of the population, justify unfulfilled commitments to investment and construction of new hospitals? What guarantees does the government provide for investments in public school so as to ensure that there are no setbacks in present education? What measures does the Government take to take in order to take further account of investment in infrastructure, support for national production, improve public investment as a way to promote employment, stimulate private investment and contribute to the recovery of the economy? Mr Prime Minister will say that the budget provides for an increase in public investment, as we have heard in his initial speech. But the truth is that we have already seen this film in the Supplementary Budget, in which an increase of 6200 to 6500 million euros was announced, compared to the initial budget. A implementation estimate is now presented by the end of 2020, which is EUR 5500 million below the budget in the Supplementary Budget and below the budget in the Initial Budget for 2020. It is appropriate to ask: what credibility do these numbers have, these announcements of public investment increases, if they are not accompanied by measures that guarantee their implementation? What assurances does the government give that the announced investments will not be blocked, like what happened in the past? The difficulties of public procurement rules, the problems of contracts do not explain the lack of political will, the lack of government decision to execute many of the announced investments.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u166	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u167	Public investment is needed in the country. Investing now is ensuring a response to the crisis we are living in, but it is above all not to let go of problems that will cost much more in the future. It is up to the Government to clarify whether it will or will not take priority over public investment, both in the strengthening of funds and in measures guaranteeing their implementation. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u168	Also to ask for clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Telma Guerreiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u169	Mr President, Prime Minister, over the last five years and five budgets, Portuguese and Portuguese have been witnesses of the indisputable reinforcement of the SNS, although some try to show otherwise. The PS prioritizes health, in a commitment with the country to return what was taken away from it in the times of governance « much beyond the troika ». I pledge that the Socialist Party will lead, but that so far it shares with the left-wing partners of this Parliament. And it wasn't the pandemic crisis that we live that diverted this path. The crisis forced short-term responses, but they have been oriented so that what we do today means a structural improvement tomorrow, increasing the response capacity of the SNS, which is equal to the country's capacity to promote and guarantee the health of all Portuguese in all dimensions. And it is in this multidimensional context of health and a long-term thought that opens a window of opportunity for the area of mental health, so often promised and so often pretended. The theme is on the media agenda, the theme is at the home of each of the Portuguese, because the isolation and daily experience of uncertainty brought a conscience about the psychological well-being or the lack of it, which so far many ignored. And it is with the aim of not leaving anyone behind that Mr. Prime Minister has been advocating that this Budget, in conjunction with the Recovery and Resilience Plan, includes mental health as a priority. For the first time, it is a priority to promote psychological well-being, the creation and organization of mental health responses, the promotion of literacy and the fight against stigma. Mr. Prime Minister, this will be of the most significant changes to the quality of response of the SNS in Portugal, as well as to cohesion and social protection, and for this, the focus will have to be on prevention and development of people. The theme of mental health and its transversal power has been claimed by several parties in this House. The Left Block, for example, is the first responsible for setting up a working group on the subject. Therefore, we do not understand that the Block is raising against the investment of EUR 19 million in mental health. Did you, after all, give up people? [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u170	Mr. Prime Minister, he has the very attentive follow-up and the critical spirit of the PS parliamentary bench in view of the hope that it is placed in the priority of mental health, in view of the hope that we will see the plan " Mental Health for All : Greater Investment, More Access" and thus that mental health ceases to be the poor relative of health. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u171	To ask for clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Ana Mesquita.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u172	Mr President, Prime Minister, the question that the CFP would like to ask you about this State budget, as far as education is concerned: how? How will an answer be given to the urgent and structural problems of education, when there is even a decrease in staff expenditure — compared with the 2020 implementation forecast and the 2021 budget — which is not simply explained by the transfer of competences, and at a time when what is needed is precisely a very clear strengthening of this money? How, if it is necessary to end thousands of precarious links of teachers, employees and specialized technicians, as proposed by the CFP? How, if 371 hours are missing on school offer and there are still thousands of students without teachers to various disciplines today? How do you solve the lack of teachers you feel now? How, Prime Minister, when there are no answers in the Budget to those who have been forced to refuse placement in school because they are hired teachers, with poor wages, travel and uncomplicated fixing expenses, and who would end up paying for work? How, if, for years, at least 5000 employees are missing, new workers are being added to those who are already there, and not successive mere recontracts? And this is what the PCP defends, that there must be more than 5,000 employees in schools. How, if there are still so many students with special needs without access to all the therapies and support they need due to lack of specialized technicians? How, if more than ever, do we need non-transitional reinforcement, which is not just for this year, but permanent, of school psychologists? How, when it is evident the urgency to considerably reduce the number of students per class, what will be possible only with more workers? And that's what the PCP defends. And how, Mr. Prime Minister, will the government and the PS stand in front of the CFP proposals, which solve this and other public school problems? Or will the government take advantage of the hand that the PSD and others extend to it so that nothing will be resolved? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u173	To respond to the various requests for clarification, Mr Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u174	Mr President, I should like to begin by thanking the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen, the questions raised. Mrs Mariana Silva, the strategic environmental assessment will precede the launch of new competitions. Therefore, there will not be the launch of new competitions, nor will there be the allocation of new rights for the exploitation of lithium without the strategic environmental assessment being previously carried out. As for rail, both the National Investment Programme and the Recovery and Resilience Plan are very clear about this priority. And today's known budget implementation data show 37 % growth in the implementation of central government investment, an important part of which is explained exclusively by the increase in rail investment. Mrs Maria Begonha, yes, it is true that we do not share this concern with the wages of the first and second jobs. On the contrary, we have opened a negotiating table, in the context of social consultation, in the sense of wage valuation for the most qualified generation in our country. This period of crisis has not allowed social dialogue to move forward in this area, but it is on the front line. That's why we also created the IRS Young, which had the first year of application this year. And that is also why we have extended the freeness of day care facilities and the number of day care facilities through the new PARES ( Social Equipment Network Enlargement Programme ). And we have also given priority to the construction of affordable housing and also to combating work insecurity, which are essential conditions for ensuring young autonomy. in the same way, Mrs Telma Guerreiro, we give effective priority to the development of the mental health plan. in this budget, there is a reinforcement of EUR 19 million, but among the identified vulnerabilities, we foresee, within the framework of the Recovery and Resilience Plan, EUR 85 million for the full implementation of the National Mental Health Programme over the next six years. Mrs. Joana Mortagua, I agree with you, you need to speak the truth. So, tell me the truth! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr Duarte Alves, we do not have an obsession with the deficit. On the contrary, this budget demonstrates how we respond, without anxiety, to this matter. The existence of good public accounts is important. It was the fact that last year we had a budget surplus that allowed us, without dramas, to respond to the imperative needs that this crisis imposes upon us. But here too we are strengthening the investment in the National Health Service. And this means not only entering new funds for next year, but also making it public today on budgetary implementation, where, only with regard to the health programme, we have an implementation of 119 %, i.e. above what was the budgeted threshold itself. in the same way, we have a boost of 23, 2 % in the budget for next year. And it is essential that public investment be one of the drivers of economic recovery. Finally, Mrs Ana Mesquita asks me how we will respond to the need for increased staff in schools. As we have come to do, Mrs Deputies: by the way we have integrated 3300 teachers this school year, by the way we have hired 600 more non-teachers, by the way we have made possible the hiring of 900 specialist technicians, in the context of social and Community staff development plans, by the way we plan to hire 3,000 more operational assistants, by the revision of the portfolio of the ratios, by the way we have already authorized the hiring of 1500 more operational assistants by the end of this year. And so we will continue to work, in the field of expertise, if we respond to this need. I wonder if we are open to evaluating the CFP proposals. Yes, of course. Here come the proposals, let's work on them. They will certainly strengthen confidence in a good budget for next year. Turning to the questions put by Mr Duarte Alves, I would like to say that we are well aware that there is a regulatory context that makes public investment difficult. Part of this difficulty I believe has been resolved with the legislation already adopted in this House on contracting. But we are available to, as a specialist, to credibility of our investment commitments by identifying the appropriate regulatory framework to ensure that no further obstacles arise to the implementation of the Budget. In fact, we have a complex legal framework. And there is a reality: it is that the previous crisis completely destroyed the construction industry. over the last five years, it has been very difficult to recover this crisis from the construction industry. And the incidents we've had in terms of hiring have been more than many. It is not one, neither two nor three schools, it is not one, nor two, nor three contests that we have to open, until, finally, the work is executed, all due to the failure of the contractors, due to the loss of the contractors. So there is a reality here that is complex, but to which we must answer. It is not only political commitments to the people, it is also an imperative need to recover our economy we will increase the level of public investment and its ability to execute. And above all now, that we will soon have a huge investment volume available through the European Union Recovery and Resilience Plan, if we are unable to improve our efficiency in implementing capacity, we will not be able, within three years, to make the commitments we have and, in six years, to implement these commitments financially and in full. It is therefore necessary to work seriously, in the field of expertise, not only for this budget but for future budgets, in the creation of a regulatory framework that ensures total transparency, prevention of corruption, but at the same time agility in the procurement and effective execution of public investment. There's no shortage of volunteers. And with the Recovery and Resilience Plan, besides not missing will, there is no lack of financial resources to be able to execute it. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u175	Let us turn to the speeches by the parliamentary groups. For the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Afonso Oliveira.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u176	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister and Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, the Portuguese have reason to be very concerned about the future. The month of March 2020 marks the beginning of this new future. And this new future imposes short-term demands and medium-term challenges! The short-term demands, such as the reaction to the pandemic, in the first two, three months, called the best of us all: the internalization of the sense of urgency and a strong sense of responsibility. We said — and the President of the PSD said - very clearly - that our fight was against the pandemic! And the government was competing to rule! Since the beginning of this crisis, the PSD has had an attitude of great responsibility and permanent institutional collaboration! He supported everything that was vital to support. He did what he could to help. That's what the country expected from the PSD, and that's what the PSD did. The Portuguese know well who is always in line with their responsibilities and do not allow themselves to be led into manipulations or campaigns that help to confuse public opinion. These very demanding moments should force the Government and the decision-makers — for example, in the field of health — to impose a weighting, assertion, consistency and fairness attitude in decisions, such as the right way to mobilize Portuguese. Confusion, discretionaryness, incongruence in decisions create the perfect environment to obtain the opposite of what is intended. On the other hand, thoughtful reflection, correct decision, communication with Portuguese in the right time and faithfully to the truth are the ingredients absolutely necessary for effective mobilization in this strange time in which we live. But the requirement in this crisis tells us that governing cannot be just the art of possible, it must even be the demonstration of the ability to do what has to be done! Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are all aware that this budget is clearly marked by the pandemic and that this is not a choice! But a State Budget also arises from a reality that is prior to the pandemic and where public policy choices are made. Indeed, this State budget for 2021 has been written by the Socialist Government for a long time. The government is writing it five years ago when, for the first time, it formed government with the support of the Portuguese Communist Party and the Left Block. He is building it with the choices, options, policies, decisions and paths that have taken us and brought us here. Go, finally, write it in chapters, Budget after Budget. It is good to remember that the support of the PS government by the parties to its left has always been a cause of great satisfaction and pride for this troika that has ruled us over the past five years. They said everything went well! What was it to continue! What a team he wins doesn't move! That the PS would rule with the support of the ruling parties! They all cried out for the best of the worlds! This happened very recently in the election campaign itself, as you know. But people's lives, like the lives of countries, have these things: they can always surprise us, there are always variables that change reality. But what was required at this time? At least they would be able to bring a budget to this House with an agreement that said "the seven winds" that were in negotiations and that could only run well! at this moment, the very simple question that all Portuguese make is this: where is the sense of responsibility when we have seen amuos in recent weeks—still today, if we have seen in this debate—the serious accusations, the red lines that demonstrate that, in the face of a crisis, in the face of difficulties, when the country most needs, there is no sense of state, but only obstacles? What I can tell you is that this is not acceptable. It's not acceptable for you to play with the Portuguese!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u177	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u178	Today, more than ever, it is essential that it be very clear — today it must be made clear — that the Socialist Party, in the last 15 years, in order not to go back, governed 11 and that, in these 15 years, there was only one Government of the PSD / CDS who had as its mission to save the country and resolve the Memorandum of Troika, signed by a Government of the Socialist Party that had led Portugal to bankruptcy. The fact is that in the last five years the Government of the Socialist Party, with the support of the Left Block and the PCP, has not prepared the country. He obtained successive tax burden records on the Portuguese, not affixed in the competitiveness of the Portuguese economy, did not reduce the very high tax burden on companies, rather, did not invest in the National Health Service, did not make structural reforms that would reduce the costs of the business context. It is also true that the pandemic created exceptional circumstances, but the recognition of exceptionality cannot lead to the dangerous and paralysing mistification that it was all right before, it was all controlled and that it was only the pandemic that came to ruin everything. in the same way, we cannot account that the country was born nine months ago, with the pandemic. But neither can we "zero" the five years of socialist governance and eliminate all its shortcomings and inadequacies, its wrong options, its way of doing politics, always for the present and never for the future. And this makes all the difference. Good governance would never have avoided the pandemic, we know. But a government based on wrong political options always adds problems to problems. Here we saw the lack of strategy and direction for Portugal, very based on the DNA (deoxyribonucleic acid) of the Socialist Party. The truth is that good governance would have left the country in better condition to attack the crisis not only in front of health, but also in the economy. By the way, bad governance only contributes to being in the state we are in today. [[PSD applause.]] In fact, the story of success was more exposed to this pandemic. It is this lack of strategy that has put Portugal on very bad sheets when we speak in the competitiveness of the Portuguese economy. The fact is that the government wanted to make a budget « It will be all right», but only on the left. But, as we have seen, it is not all right there, because the Left Block has resolved this time not to « manage».
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u179	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u180	And all this is defined in a word: irresponsibility. We have seen, throughout these days, how we are attending this debate today, for those who are attentive — and the Portuguese are paying attention! — one, in a word, irresponsibility. Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister and others. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This proposal for a State budget is marked by the strong criticisms of the Technical Unit for Budgetary Support, which lists a number of shortcomings and shortcomings, in particular the lack of information on budgetary policy measures. The Public Finance Council, in its report, is very clear about concerns, risks and doubts about the budget proposal. But this budget brings us a real novelty: the lack of support for the economy and businesses. The economy is the great absentee, it is the Wally of this Budget. The government says she's everywhere, only nobody sees her. And nobody sees it because the economy practically does not exist in this Budget. As the Minister for Economic Affairs has already acknowledged, next year we will have a greater problem with the growing number of insolvencys. As we know, it is the companies that produce, it is the companies that create jobs, it is the companies that generate income. And today, more than ever, the equation can be put in a very simple way: supporting companies is equal to protecting workers, which is equal to preserving jobs, which is equal to stopping unemployment, which is equal to continuing to pay pensions.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u181	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u182	That is why the government should be appalled with prejudice. It should be shaken by ideological prejudices and consider the importance of companies in the economic recovery of the country and be concerned about containing the social crisis that is felt every day in the lives of more and more people. Well, what we see in the State Budget right now is the maintenance of a tax burden with paralyzing weight on companies and on whom most contribute to creating wealth. We have already said it, and we have repeated it — it seems to me that it is always good to repeat it, because there are people who have not heard: this would not be our way.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u183	Just say a proposal!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u184	But there can also be no doubt that the social component of support for all those who have been without employment, income or poverty imposes measures of common sense, solidarity and justice that always have the support of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u185	What about the proposals? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u186	There is also another fact that has already been discussed here today until exhaustion, although there is no answer, which is the theme of the TAP. With regard to TAP, the government has nationalized losses and, worse, as we already see, and we do not have a response to this, it has wasted EUR 1700 million without any restructuring plan being presented. Does anyone have any illusions that this is going to be around here? This, for the Portuguese, is incomprehensible and unbelievable. But we've seen this film: the Portuguese are risking being dragged by the TAP to a well of air, without background. [[PSD applause.]] Another feature of the State Budget proposal is its lack of realism. It is true that we are in an environment of enormous uncertainty, but hope that the economy will grow 5, 4 % of GDP is much more a desire than a forecast. We are also very concerned about over-evaluation of revenue growth. This has already been referred to over these days and is particularly evident in the revenue lines of IRC and social contributions. To this end I also recommend careful reading of what the Council of Public Finance says. Expect that the taxes or contributions of 2021 will be above the values recorded in 2019 is at least dangerous. The prudence of the times in which we live advises not to create false optimism. This may also mean, on the other hand, that the Government is already planning to submit a rectification in 2021, but does not tell the Portuguese. Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister and others. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This is a budget that does not bet on economic growth, this is a budget that does not have a strategy, this is a budget that does not support the economy and job creation, this is a budget that does not support those who work and create wealth. I am now making a final reference: they have read, of course, the opinion of the director of a reference newspaper in our square, which said, concerning this proposal for a State Budget, the following, and I quote: « (...) and that is how this Budget is known not from what is there, but from what is not there. For the total void. There is no way, a project, a strategy. » This is a good synthesis, and it has not been said by us! I shall conclude by reaffirming that this proposal for a State Budget for 2021 does not resolve the present nor does it prepare the future. This is a bad budget for Portugal, for the Portuguese. The PSD, of course, votes against. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u187	Mr Afonso Oliveira, the Bureau has filed a request for clarification from Mr Porfirio Silva, PS, to whom I will give the floor as soon as the Member arrives. [[Pause.]] Mr Porfirio Silva, you have the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u188	Mr President, Mr Afonso Oliveira, the position of the PSD in the budgetary debate that has taken place in the last few days here in Parliament, and out there is a symptom of a problem: the PSD today suffers from a burden of responsibility. We recognize that the PSD, in the first phase of the pandemic, has really made an effort to place national interest above the party interest—we recognize that. But it lasted a little, he got tired and now he suffers from this fatigue of responsibility. Mr Rui Rio, when he justified the vote against the PSD on this budget, explained that it had been a phrase from the Prime Minister. His parliamentary leader repeated, in a weekend newspaper: "If I at least apologized for that phrase, we could still re-equarate the vote". [[PSD protests.]] But what terrible phrase must it have been that determines the vote against the PSD? Oh, my God! What was the political message of that phrase? The message is very clear, and it is this: there is a particular responsibility on the left in the approval of this Budget, because whoever brought the Country here, who turned the page of austerity and showed that there is a better way and that it gives better results, who has the responsibility not to give up in the middle, has the responsibility to act against the waste of experience, has the responsibility not to abandon the boat when the storm is such and the Portuguese face the Monster in the Cape of Storms, which is still to be the Cape of Good Hope. The Cape of Storms must still be the Cape of Good Hope if we know how to sail and there are no sailors jumping off with fear of the vastness of the task. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] The PSD... [[Pause.]] I'm just waiting for you gentlemen, who have to have fun saying anything else, let them hear it! [[P.S.'s applause.]] The PSD, at this difficult moment for Portugal and the Portuguese, accuses the tiredness of putting national interest above party calculation. They're not the only ones, it's true! They have companies. I don't know if you like all the companies that have this position, but what is worrying is the brutal return to the past, tested by your party leader, Mr. Rui Rio, with the speech you have made in recent days. It is that, in his justification of the vote against, before his parliamentary group, where he certainly feels at ease to open the heart, what he showed was a giving, throughout the line, to the old discourse and to the old strategy of Passos Coelho. He went back to the theory that we live above our possibilities. Who? Those who live with the minimum wage? Oh, my God! He again defended the passive strategy of giving priority to reducing the gross deficit. He went back to the theory that revenue is uncertain and, therefore, we must quickly add that we have to go back to the cuts. He accused us again of giving everything to everyone. But what is extraordinary, Mr. Deputies, is that Mr. Rui Rio, your party leader, who we respect as leader of a democratic party, has succeeded in resurrecting all the austerity doctrine of Passos Coelho and Paulo Portas and, nevertheless, there are parties who complain from the left that do not recognize, do not see the danger that this represents for the country and that they do not mind repeating the mistakes of the past. I would like to ask you two questions, Mr President. In the speech in which you announced the vote against this Budget, your party leader, Mr Rui Rio, said: « Of course we are all in favour of the increase in pensions, of more free daycare, of less VAT in gyms, of cheaper social passes, of new social benefits, of the increase in the minimum unemployment allowance, of the creation of penosity allowance, of the reduction of electricity VAT, of the increase in the lower wages of public service. We all agree with each of these measures individually,... » — and even well! So are we! — '... but we cannot agree with all this at the same time. Do not keep on seeking. ” First question, Mr President: which of these measures, good measures, as your party leader says, will the PSD want you to leave the Budget? Would you like to leave behind who? The unemployed? The pensioners? The ones who earn less? Families? What are you going to propose to leave the Budget?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u189	Say one!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u190	Another question: if you accuse us of giving everything to everyone, will you say, as your parliamentary leader announced to the Express, that they can perfectly present other measures in the specialty, even though this implies cutting revenue and increasing expenditure? Is that, in the specialty, how far will the practical effects of the burden of responsibility that PSD is charging today go? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u191	Now we're gonna figure out if there's even an invitation to dance!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u192	Mr Afonso Oliveira, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u193	Mr President, Mr Porfirio Silva, thank you very much for your speech, not for the words you have spoken... that « porfirio»... [[PSD and CH laughter.]] It's an exchange. Let me tell you that the Socialist Party, whenever it is difficult to defend whatever the Budget is in this case, and it has already been noticed that there is a difficulty — in fact, some days ago, in the Committee on Budgets and Finance, we realize that Mr Finance also has difficulty, so it does not defend the Budget — creates something that has called, a few years ago, everyone remembers, « narrative».
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u194	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u195	And the narrative you created here is a narrative that PS likes. [[PS protests.]] It happened in the time of José Socrates. Do you remember that time too? Oh, my God! It was the time the PSD and CDS had to save the country! Therefore, this narrative, created at the time of the government of José Socrates, arises when the PS has difficulty with the truth. When you can't tell the truth, create a narrative. And what was the narrative Mr. Deputy created here today? It is the narrative that the PSD is responsible, that the PSD is austere, that Mr Rui Rio... So there is an obsession here. It's an obsessive narrative for PSD. [[PSD applause.]] Sir, we just hope it's not compulsive. Obsessive yes, but if it's compulsory, keeping this kind of speech in the next few days will be complicated. But we already realize that there is a speech prepared to create the narrative. I think, however, that the honourable Member has not answered, or at least has not spoken, he has certainly forgotten, or has not heard, but I can give him the speech I made from the rostrum, to the subject of the companies. It's because this State budget has no companies, it's an empty total, it's an absolute zero. [[PSD applause.]] But, honourable Member, what is happening is a very simple thing: the PS has been negotiating with the Left Block since June, July, August, September, October — five months. He must have stayed in a bubble studying the subjects, discussing them and not talking to the companies, he didn't talk to the people, he didn't talk to the Portuguese. We talk to the entrepreneurs every day—still yesterday, we had several meetings—and we heard people say that there is nothing in the Budget that is important, that is significant, that is relevant to companies. There is no policy for companies. This is a relevant issue and it was important that you talk about it, but you decided not to talk.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u196	Are you going to answer the questions? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u197	There'll be some time in the specialty. As you know, the obligation of the Budget is that of the Government, the Government should submit proposals and not speak with the PSD on liability, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u198	Aren't you? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u199	The PSD has demonstrated—and the Portuguese know this, they all know that, is recognized by all Portuguese—a great attitude of responsibility. This attitude we are having here today is of great responsibility! I will remind you of a sentence that Mr Porfirio Silva has forgotten. It is a phrase that has emerged, it has been mentioned by all and was said by Mr Prime Minister : on the day the PSD votes in the budget, the government falls. But do you want us to vote in favour of the budget for the government to fall? Oh, my God! [[PSD laughter.]] It's weird. That proposal is very strange.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u200	That was a strange thing!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u201	What I think is important was to understand — and yet we do not understand all this drama with the Left Block — what is the bill that the State Budget will have with this negotiation. [[PSD applause.]] What we are witnessing today in this debate was several interventions — the NAP, the CFP... — to present the invoice to the Government. We want to realize that invoice will pay the State budget in this negotiation.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u202	Only good things!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u203	Mr. Secretary of State, it is very simple: it may even be an e-invoice. If it's an e-invoice, you have a discount. It's a suggestion I leave here. [[PSD laughter.]] Mr Porfirio Silva, I am very grateful for your words, were interesting, for those who wanted to hear them, and the answer is very simple: the PSD will consider, as we have always said, at all times, but, in relation to fundamental matters that are important to people to combat poverty, unemployment, the difficulties of all Portuguese, we are here to defend them. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u204	It's been registered! It's a strange formulation, but it's always an invitation to dance. Now choose the music!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u205	Mr José Luís Carneiro has the floor for an intervention by the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u206	H.E. Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members: This is a responsible budget. Of responsibility for public health, of responsibility for the most fragile social and economically, of responsibility for families and of responsibility for employment and for businesses. And there are two guarantees that we want to leave: firstly, the openness to the improvement of this proposal, in the specialty; secondly, that the PS will always be with the Portuguese, in good and bad times, always with loyalty. This is a Budget of responsibility for the health of Portuguese people, because it continues to strengthen the National Health Service. We do this to face one of the greatest challenges that has ever faced Portuguese society: the COVID-19 pandemic. Yes, because after the investment made since 2015, with the hiring of more than 20 000 professionals, it provides for the hiring of more than 4200 health professionals. First conclusion, it is politically unacceptable, because it is false, that the Budget is rejected because it is considered that it does not correspond to the country's first priority: the protection of the health of Portuguese! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this is also a Socially Responsible Budget. With the younger and older generations. This proposal refuses austerity to face this economic and social crisis and guarantees protection for those who are experiencing moments of greater weakness. This proposal protects employment with dignity. First, by establishing a 24-month moratorium, to the expiry of collective labour conventions. Secondly, because it is moving forward with proposals to combat job insecurity and, by establishing a new benefit that will cover more than 258,000 people, it shows the commitment that no one will be left behind. They are reasons for solidarity that lead social security to estimate an increase in investment in social protection by more than EUR 1960 million to 2021. We are talking about people, the strengthening of support to more than 1 million and 900 thousand pensioners, the improvement of access conditions and the strengthening of unemployment benefit and employment support. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this is a Budget of responsibility for families, because it expands the freeness of day care, updates the amounts of family allowance and fights poverty in the elderly. Secondly, it is politically unacceptable, because it is false, that the vote against this Budget is based on the understanding that it does not combat precariousness, does not protect employment and that it protects the most fragile socially. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is also responsible for the families of the middle classes for providing for a fiscal policy to stimulate the most immediate liquidity, which will not fail to stimulate consumption, domestic production and the dynamization of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. It is still responsible for families and businesses, because it reduces electricity VAT and adopts a fiscal policy that aims to stimulate the sectors of restaurant, hotel and culture. Thirdly, it is politically unacceptable, because it is false, the vote against this Budget for it does not support families, including middle classes, and for not giving incentives to micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. But this is also a direct liability budget for companies, because it eliminates the escalation of autonomous taxes and involves measures such as the Extraordinary Investment Tax Credit, public guarantees on credit lines and export credit insurance.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u207	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u208	And we should remember the extent to which it enables to recover tax losses from 2020 and 2021, within IRC over the next 12 years. It has responsibility for companies and jobs because it also provides for a very significant increase in public investment in transport and mobility, education, training and qualification systems, public housing policy and the modernization of the State. The fourth conclusion, being false, is politically unacceptable to vote against this budget because it does not include measures to support businesses and jobs. Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Members: We cannot deny what is in everyone's sight. This is a responsible left-wing budget that protects people, families and businesses and prepares the country for opportunities opened up with European funds. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The alternative to the orientation of this State budget exists and has already been expressed by the PPD / PSD: it would be to return to the old and spends the income of austerity. Only the insensitivity of an austerity political response, on the one hand, and the partisan selfish tacticist, inappropriate these times, on the other, can explain that others join the right in voting against this Budget. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PS is where it has always been: with all Portuguese and all Portuguese to serve with loyalty and with determination the interest of Portugal and the progress of Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u209	For an intervention, you have the floor, by the Left Block, Mrs Mariana Mortágua.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u210	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u211	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u212	Mr President, we wanted to put a question to Mr André Coelho Lima. We apologize, but there was a delay in our bench, so we asked Mr President to reconsider this possibility.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u213	Mr President, there is no opposition from any bench, of course. Apologizing to Mrs Mariana Mortágua, I give the floor to Mr André Coelho Lima to ask Mr José Luís Carneiro a question. You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u214	Mr President, Mr. José Luís Carneiro, we have listened carefully to your speech, so that, contrary to what the Socialist Party has done about Mr. Afonso Oliveira's intervention, we do not bring home questions. Let us try to make the debate what it is, replicating what we just heard. The honourable Member has classified this budget as a liability budget. He considers that this budget is responsible for companies and I challenge it — that is my question — to indicate the conditions under which this budget is responsible for companies. He considers that it is responsible to announce a reduction in the retention of the source and to do so with alarm, when we know that it is not accompanied by a reduction in the IRS, which means that "they pushed the belly forward" and created the expectation today, which will not be corresponded tomorrow. [[PSD applause.]] Mr President, do you think that it is responsible for a budget that embraces all support for the productivity of companies and the growth of the economy for the European bazauca, i.e. what it does for the Socialist Party to do when it is in government, what is to wait for the money that comes from outside to solve the problems that it cannot solve here? Mr President, this budget was undoubtedly lacking in support, and this has already been mentioned a number of interventions, including by the President of the PSD, that he agreed with the measures to support the most disadvantaged, the measures to support the citizens at this time of great distress. This was the position of responsibility presented by the PSD from the outset. But it is also true that this budget needed projection. This budget needed not only measures to maintain employment but also measures to create jobs. And in this measure of projection and creation, the Budget is null. [[Protests from PS Santinho Pacheco.]] So, Mr President, I conclude with the question I started with: what is the basis for this budget being responsible for supporting companies, and to what extent is the basis for voting against false, precisely because there is no support for the economy in this budget? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u215	To reply, Mr. José Luís Carneiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u216	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister and other members of the Government, Mr and Mr Ladies and gentlemen, there is a conclusion we can draw. Mr André Coelho Lima did not pay attention to the intervention I just made; otherwise, he would have heard a wide range of export support measures, company protection, income stimulus. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr Prime Minister has already referred here to the economic policy of the Government, which is, in fact, quite different from that which was stated by Dr Rui Rio a few days ago. The economic policy of the Government was the one that guaranteed consecutive growth to the country, in real convergence with the European Union and above the European Union's average growth. The government's economic policy was also the one that stimulated exports, allowing us to grow consecutively in the country's exports, reaching 44 % of gross domestic product. Let me ask a question from my bench to the bench of the Democratic Social Party, because since I heard the declaration of vote by the Democratic Social Party on its parliamentary days, I have, with all due respect for Dr Rui Rio, been curious to ask you a question here in Parliament. One of the key proposals had to do with the security of revenue and security in the structure of the expenditure of this Budget and in this assessment of the proposal for Budget submitted by the Socialist Party, Dr. Rui Rio said that this proposal had no credibility, in particular in the forecast of revenue in terms of corporate tax in terms of IRC. I have read very carefully the documents that the Democratic Social Party has produced, which are in the public domain, are known, and I must say that it has given me great pleasure to read them, as a contribution to this political debate in response to the country's difficulties. On page 15 of the Strategic Programme and the European Funds for the Decade, it can be read that the Social Democratic Party submits an economic proposal to the country which provides that in 2023 exports represent 50% of Portugal's gross domestic product. How can the PSD and Dr. Rui Rio, in such a pandemic crisis, in such an economic and social crisis, assume, in a country's strategic document, that exports, which have fallen from 44 % to 34 %, reach 50 % of the country's gross domestic product? Oh, my God! [[P.S.'s applause.]] The economic response model to this crisis is the model that supports companies, as we could say here, not only by export credit insurance, but also by tax incentives to income policy, by tax incentives to consumer policy, which leads to domestic demand, induces production in the country and leads to job creation through the creation of wealth in the country's own companies, valuing its resources. I would like the Democratic Social Party and Dr. Rui Rio to explain to us how they intend to increase exports by 2023 to 50% of the Product, because this matrix depends on the credibility of the proposal they have been presenting to the Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u217	For the Left Block, for an intervention, Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u218	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister and others. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Almost all parliamentary boards agree that the crisis will worsen. The country requires us, then, solutions and convergence for these solutions. But that search for solutions didn't start yesterday. Recognizing the seriousness of the pandemic, we have made it possible for all the resources and laws that the Government has requested from Parliament. In the emergency and the Supplementary Budget, we accepted and supported everything that the Government considered essential for its emergency intervention. No other bench proceeded in this way. We recognize the emergency and respond to the emergency.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u219	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u220	It is true that there were money and support, some of them negotiated with the Block, which never came out of the paper. We regret that the contracts of health professionals have been so late and we regret that no informal worker has received the planned support. But in the Budget for 2021 our obligation is not only to respond to the emergency with emergency measures, it is to protect the country to meet the structural challenges that the pandemic has exposed: the enormous pressure on a weary SNS, but that it fights; the threat of unemployment and abuse over whom it is most precarious; the poverty that afflicts so many families. The Block focused its proposal on these areas and also on protecting against the financial scandal that is Lone Star's raid on public history. Since the summer we have come forward with a consistent response, we have presented it to the government and we have negotiated it with openness and transparency before the public. We have examined the 2021 budget proposal with the rigour we have devoted over the months to the proposals we wanted and tried to negotiate. We thank the data that the Government has provided in this process and that have allowed a constructive negotiation and debate. Mr Prime Minister, it is true that this budget does not cut short and it is also true that it represents continuity in the government's budgetary strategy. When we look at previous budgetary exercises, we confirm that this Budget is a routine budget. But it is not routine that we need in times of crisis and therefore this budget is doomed to be overcome by difficulties. This budget is not enough, it fails where Portugal cannot fail and does not look at reality. Failure and cannot fail. Is the problem budgetary? Of course it is, it is budgeted when Portugal suffers one of the biggest recessions in the European area and the Government chooses to present Brussels with a forecast of deficits of the lowest in Europe. The problem is budgetary when the allocation for SNS in 2021 is lower than the budgeted in the 2020 Supplement. The problem is budgetary when increased staff costs across the health sector are less than strengthened last year. But what is really at stake is the rules with which we organize ourselves in society, the way in which the State is able to create security in times of uncertainty around a strong SNS, around a network of support in poverty and unemployment, around a brake on layoffs. We see that there are strong reasons for the government's refusals, which believe that the rules for the allocation of unemployment allowance and social unemployment allowance must continue to be those which the troika introduced. When we proposed that the extension of the experimental period be removed, we found a wall. We recall that this proposal came by the hand of the Government, in that curious week that one night he made an agreement with the Block for Combating Precautionaryness and the next morning he made the agreement contrary to the employers' associations, introducing this experimental period as a rule. I understand the government's strong ideological reasons for maintaining this rule. But he's not right. The standard disqualifies professions, prolongs vulnerability, harms people's lives. There is no reason why we should not reach an agreement to correct it. When we propose a new benefit, we do so because we understand that it is time to strengthen the social protection system, beyond the extraordinary support, which are, in fact, being created in so many countries, by so many governments, from the most progressive to the most liberal. We cannot continue to have most of the unemployed without any access to unemployment benefits. This is a structural problem that needs to be resolved structurally. In exchange for this proposal, we receive openness to discuss emergency and temporary support financed by European funds during 2021. We have worked hard to improve this circumstantial proposal, but after some progress, which must be mentioned, we have failed to ensure that all people supported by 2020 maintain support by 2021. It is the case of a couple in which each has incomes of €860 and in which an income loss of self-employment: they are excluded from any support, even if they have fallen into poverty. We also appreciate some steps taken by the government in the area of health. What distinguishes us is not to want or not to want a good public health service. What separates us is that we want a structural reform that raises the SNS and the government only accepts short-term remedies, and thus we condemn the SNS to atrophy. We want a Budget that responds to SNS disease : the Garcia de Orta Hospital works with doctors at least, loses specialists and can't keep the emergency open at night; the Curry Cabral Hospital lost seven doctors since the beginning of the year and at the Évora hospital out of seven of eight pediatricians; at the Amadora-Sintra hospital seven people came out from the obstetric unit and opened zero vacancies in the last contest; at the Western Lisbon Hospital, the ratio of nurses and medical boards was reduced, throughout the country, they don't give the necessary answers. The reality shows us that it is no use announcing contracts and then putting the head in the sand, like the ostrich, to not see that these contracts are insufficient and many will not even happen. The operational assistants are exhausted, earn the wages of a supermarket box, work extraordinary hours, often without receiving it, but the government rejects the possibility of recognizing them a career. We should and could come to an agreement to protect these workers and these workers. There are hospitals that lose professionals due to lack of autonomy to hire them for the framework, but the government rejects granting them that autonomy. There are competitions for doctors without candidates and therefore the government will not be able to comply with the contract commitment, nor with that trick of considering the specialization of inmates who were already in the SNS as new specialist contracts. It is simply that there are not enough doctors in the public and tricks do not make emergencies or consultations. It is necessary to give doctors the right pay, it is necessary to restore to the private the doctors who are missing in hospitals and health centres in which Portugal trusts. But the Government rejects the most effective measure to attract and maintain doctors in the SNS, which is the exclusivity regime.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u221	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u222	Ignoring this problem is an error: of the 4600 contracts announced to 2021, 2200 relate to the linkage of professionals who are already in the SNS. The Government estimates that 510 vacancies may be required to be completed in the next medical examinations. However, there are 434 specialists who will retire, without counting on the retirement of other professionals. The effective reinforcement of the SNS, without counting the 4600 advertised contracts, may fall below one third — one third! — what has been announced. In health, as in social support, there are no remedies that stagnate the urgency of strong and structural measures. It is thought that with routine arrangements, provisional arrangements and some announcements can lead Portugal in response to the crisis, the government is wrong. Our crisis is not political. The government doesn't fall or get up. Our crisis is that if we don't strengthen the SNS, we all fall. Our crisis is that if we don't take care of stopping the second wave of layoffs, we all suffer. That is why the Left Block has presented and insists on structural proposals for health, for employment, for the security of the people and for the bank. I like to hear everyone talk in responsibility and good sense while they ask us to bury our heads in the sand, like such an ostrich, pretending not to listen, pretending not to want to see, pretending not to want to know, pretending not to understand anything. We won't do that. We won't, because we have the mandate to leave no one behind. But here is our commitment: if there is a good sense of strengthening the SNS, if there is reasonableness to protect those who are afflicted with unemployment and poverty, if there is a good sense of protecting the state from financial pillage, then we will certainly have a good budget for 2021. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u223	Mrs Deputy, the Bureau has two requests for clarification, one from Mrs Sonia Fertuzinhos and the other from Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira. How do you intend to respond, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u224	I shall answer together, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u225	You have the floor, then, to ask for clarification, Mrs Sonia Fertuzinhos.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u226	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Ministers and Ministers, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, all her intervention, in the tone in which she made it, like the whole set of interventions, numbers, graphics, schemes, which the Left Block has presented in all possible ways that she has achieved, with great insistence and drama, in the last few weeks,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u227	Not as much as the government!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u228	... do not explain and much less justify, since they are clearly negligible, the position of the Left Block in the vote tomorrow of the proposal for a State budget for 2021, in general. And, Madam Member, if an image is worth a thousand words, the image of the Left Block for the Country in tomorrow's vote is only one: the Left Block will rise alone, on the right side of Parliament — the PSD, the CDS, the Liberal Initiative and the Arrival — to vote against a budget proposal that no one, by agreeing or disagreeing with it, can deny that it strengthens the role of the social state, the role of the State in responding to the crisis and the pandemic. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Even Mr Coelho Lima, if there were any doubts, says that the PSD agrees in this Budget with the measures to « support the most vulnerable ». And in this word, 'I support', Mrs. Members of the PSD, there is everything that separates us from the right in this Budget. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But tomorrow, Madam Member, in the vote of this proposal for a State budget, the Left Block will be the only party to stand aside from all right that will vote against the State budget, because it is again against the increase in the minimum wage, on the assumption that, and I quote the right, « it is much worse to be unemployed than living with 400 or 500 € », in defense, says the Left Block, the « boosting the minimum wage », which this same proposal for a State budget assumes as central in the income policy, as have taken over all the State budgets since 2015, which have been viable by the parliamentary left and also by the Left Block. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But tomorrow too, Mrs Deputies, in the vote of the State budget, the Left Block will stand next to the whole right that will vote against this Budget, because, and again, I quote, the right, « distribute what it has and what it does not have » in the defence, says the Left Block, « of strengthening the health budget and social support», which this Budget guarantees, as all the Budgets have done since 2015, with the support of the parliamentary left and the Left Block. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u229	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u230	And again, Mrs. Member, tomorrow, in the vote of the State budget, the Left Block will be the only party on the left of parliament to stand by the right side,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u231	Again? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u232	...that will vote against this State budget because, and I quote,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u233	Again? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u234	Yes, sir. Members of the right, I quote again, because this Budget continues to be prejudiced against the private sector and an artificial and absurd division between the private, social and public sectors at fundamental points, such as health, to defend", says the Left Block again — "the National Health Service with the aim of always guaranteeing the health of all Portuguese and Portuguese." This, Madam Member, when the Budget of the State in which the Left Block will vote against does not only reinforce the recovery and investment line in the SNS of all budgets, since 2015, viable throughout the Parliamentary Left and the Left Block, as it faces and fights without difficulty one of the most recent attempts of several actors and health care officials to take advantage of the pandemic and the pressure it puts on the SNS to achieve private gains, and for the private, at the expense of the Social Health Service. [[P.S.'s applause.]] So, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, the question that is being raised in this framework and in this debate is only this: do you think that any elector or elector of the Left Block, any elector or elector of the left, in Portugal, understands your position at the beginning of the parliamentary process of discussion of the State budget and the image that will remain of the Left Block in the vote tomorrow? The image of the Left Block will be that of the only parliamentary left party to stand up, alone with the right, in the vote against the proposal of the State Budget for 2021, in general, without any reason which one perceives and convinces, putting the towel to the floor, abandoning the negotiation effort that will continue until the final vote and thus failing the Country. A Left Block that, to use the expression of Mrs Catarina...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u235	Martins.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u236	Yes... when a person forgets, he really forgets! I said, a Left Block that, to use the expression of Mrs Catarina Martins at the beginning of this debate, "failure to the country and failure to the people". [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u237	Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira, from the PSD, has the floor to ask for clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u238	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Mrs Mariana Mortágua, has devoted much of her intervention to the National Health Service...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u239	Well!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u240	... and spoke to us - with some perplexity on my part - in a tired National Health Service, in a revised National Health Service, in an atrophy National Health Service and in an exhausted National Health Service. I must say that the Social Democratic Party agrees with all that you said about the state in which the National Health Service is located. In fact, all that has stated here is true, but Mrs Mariana Mortágua, this is true today as it was true what we were saying in 2015, in 2016, in 2017, in 2018, in 2019 and in 2020. [[PSD applause.]] Mrs Mariana Mortágua has arranged a new narrative. So far, what I was counting on was the budget forecasts, and every year we heard Mrs Mariana Mortágua and the other Members of the Block on the Left saying that "this year, the Budget has more x million than last year. this year, it has more than x million of this and of that than last year'. I mean, I compared budget forecasts. Today, or rather by saying, in this discussion, the Left Block has changed its mind. After all, what counts now is not the comparison between forecasts but, yes, between budget executions. Mrs Mariana Mortágua, but that's exactly what we've always said in the last six years...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u241	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u242	...and Mrs. Deputy denied it all that time. In fact, everything you said is true, it is six years late. And, I am sorry to say, I was sorry to take this speech from Mrs Sonia Fertuzinhos, who ended up being very unfair. For those who have been defending the Socialist Party for six years, now taking a sermon like this, in fact, is not very nice there. But, finally, there are problems between the Left Block and the Socialist Party. [[PSD applause.]] Mrs Mariana Mortágua, the results of what she has recognized today and which she has not recognized over these six years are in sight of all. The government has promised us successively a family doctor for all Portuguese. I recall Mr. Prime Minister's words, which I quote : « 2017 is once and for all the year in which all Portuguese will have a family doctor assigned ». For it is, Prime Minister, we are in 2020 and what we have are 315 000 Portuguese without a family doctor, compared to the end of 2019.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u243	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u244	They promised us more doctors in the National Health Service in 2020 — do you remember, Prime Minister? — but what we have at the moment is less than 452 doctors in the National Health Service. Isn't that true, Prime Minister? Mr Prime Minister also promised us an accelerated growth of new family health units throughout his term of office. For it was, but in comparison with the PSD government / CDS-PP, what we have is an average below what was possible in times of national emergency. Therefore, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, welcome to the reality of the country in 2020, which is unfortunately still worse than it was in 2019 or 2018, but it seems to me that in this specific case the Left Block is responsible for the disastrous results of health policy and cannot continue, as so far, to put its head in the sand. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u245	In reply, Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u246	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I thank you for your comments. In fact, the PSD has been very comfortable in this budget debate as a political commentator. [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u247	We have seen, several times, major comments worthy of a programme, exclusively, on a large Portuguese television channel. Unfortunately, the political commentator's place is proportional to the political futility of the PSD in this debate...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u248	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u249	... in terms of proposals, contributions, reflection and even analysis. The heritage of analysis of the Left Block in these Budgets — and who analyzes a Budget knows that it is so important to compare Budget with Budget as Budget with execution, depending on areas and suborbation—... [[PSD protests.]] ... always led to trying to put things as they are. Health has had a very important boost over recent years, unlike the PSD, which has always cut into investment in health. What we are now questioning is that this investment is not enough to respond to the pandemic. What we are asking is that these answers are rectified when structural responses are needed. Mrs Sonia Fertuzinhos, the Left Block is committed to giving a consistent response to the crisis. It was on the basis of that conviction that we negotiated, that is on the basis of that conviction that we analyzed and decided on our vote. The honourable Member is very concerned about images. Less concerned with images whenever the PS joined the PSD to vote on the bank;...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u250	If that's your answer, it's all said!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u251	... he was less concerned with images whenever the PS joined the PSD and the right to vote on the labour law; he was less concerned about images whenever he left the left at an exclusion point, preventing him from participating in the debates of the labour law, assuming that it is only discussed with the right or with the bosses. Little concern was expressed about images at that time. I have to tell you that I don't care about the images either. I am more concerned about the answers and the certainty that I have voted on a budget that responds to the crisis. Those who care about images may be content with the idea of social benefit, when what is actually being attributed is extraordinary, temporary and limited support. Those who care about images may be satisfied with promises of hiring professionals that we know that then we will not have the conditions to fulfill. What I think we should all avoid is not the voter's opinion on images, but it is the voter's opinion from here to one, two, three or four months, when the crisis is deeper and when they realize that the answers are not what they thought would be, because after all, the images did not correspond to structural and real measures.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u252	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u253	Madam Member, if the PS wants a left-wing budget, it is committed to left-wing measures and proposals presented to the left. And I give you back the questions: why not exclusiveness for SNS doctors? Why is PS so resistant to creating a career for hospital operatives? Why is PS so resistant to giving autonomy to hospitals so they can hire? This is what we are talking about, structural measures to respond to the crisis. Much more than images, we care about the real solutions to the problems of the country. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u254	Mr João Gonçalves Pereira, from the CDS, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u255	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Portugal will enter the Presidency of the European Union with a government held by wires. This is bad for the government's political action, both inside and outside, and gives signs of instability that discredit a country to count on, and much, European funds. In a climate of inevitable socio-economic instability, Mr Prime Minister was unable to ensure the essential political stability for a good budget. We have a state budget that is not a business friend and very friend of your friends on the left. in this State budget we once again verified what we already knew: when there is money on the left, when there is no money on the left, it divides itself and escapes responsibility. Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we will end the year with about 9 % unemployment rate and the government expects a reduction to 8 % by 2021. However, the different national and international authorities provide for an unemployment rate above 10 % for next year, which will put enormous pressure on public expenditure. We therefore advocate a concrete measure, which relieves businesses and guarantees employment, reducing TSU (the single social rate) for all our companies. It is essential to adopt this measure to maintain the jobs that still exist in our businesses and to reduce unemployment next year. The economy and businesses need less taxes, less taxes and tax returns and clearly less debt. The government announced: « Taxes will not be increased ». What did families and businesses expect to hear from the government? They hoped to hear « we will lower taxes ». What is certain is that, by analyzing the State budget, we find that the composition of the tax revenue remains more based on indirect taxes than on direct taxes, but on the left, between advertisements and reality, there is a whole Left Block and the government has not resisted. I am going to quote economist Eugenio Rosa, an unsuspecting left-wing man who says: « I made the accounts and this is an austerity budget that has an increase of taxes to 2021 of almost EUR 3000 million ». I shall repeat: « I have made the accounts and this is an austerity budget that has an increase of taxes to 2021 of almost EUR 3000 million ». Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in the context of this government's political action, in which the recapitalisation of enterprises should go through the delayed and delayed Development Bank, we also argue that all the capital injected into companies should have a « zero » remuneration in the next three years. The current context should force the country to have a State budget that was a friend of productivity and would allow the creation of value and its distribution by entrepreneurs and their workers. There are companies that, for decades, have been well managed and have honored their commitments to their suppliers and to the state. Today, we have stopped sectors and companies paralyzed because the pandemic and the state so imposed. This is the case with companies in the aviation sector, this is the case with the bar and discotheques sector, this is the case with the event sector or travel agencies. I am talking about companies, in many cases well managed, honest and also, in many cases, capitalized. Today, how do you feel about the state? Feel a total abandonment. What about a abandonment that happens when? The moment they needed it most. I repeat, they are companies that, for decades, have paid their taxes and contributions to the state and are now abandoned. It is a situation of enormous injustice! For example, in the aviation sector, the Government decided to support TAP, but another aviation company, EuroAtlantic, or companies such as Groundforce and Portway, which employ thousands of workers and depend on air traffic, these have no specific support. There are sectors and sectors, there are regions and regions and therefore the support must be channelled according to the need of each sector and of each region. For the CDS, closed sector or paralysed sector must be supported. Do you have more work? Come on. Do you give less headlines? Yeah. But sometimes, Mr. Prime Minister, what is best for the country is not the best for the media agenda of those who govern. That is why I ask you to conclude by saying that in the construction of this budget you spoke more with the President of the Economic and Social Council or with the party coordinator who has already announced that you will vote against? Did you talk more about off-journalistics or in direct conversations with our business fabric? Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't think we need to hear an answer to know what that answer is. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u256	That's coscuvilhice!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u257	For an intervention by the NAP, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u258	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We all, as elected, have the added responsibility, of which we cannot resign at a complex time as the country lives, if we do not turn our backs. It is difficult to understand that parties, such as the Social Democratic Party, choose to stand aside from finding a collective solution, at such an embryonic stage of the discussion of the State budget. The PSD, which is able to establish bridges of understanding with the Socialist Party in various and complex matters, even in its own detriment, such as the end of the 15-year debates or the recent ruinous distribution of places for the CCDRs (coordination and regional development committees), is the same PSD that then cannot establish bridges with its partner of informal coalition in that which is just the most important document for the country. It should be noted, however, for the sake of the truth, that this was not the only one to do so and that other forces also have opted for the easier way, the path of ruin. And we don't mean who makes politics of burned land, but who decided to knock on the door at this time. We all know how easy it is to find differences and sell them as insurmountable red lines, when, in fact, what is lacking is the real will to come to the understanding that the country needs.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u259	Even the PAN!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u260	We all know how profitable it can be to assume the role, though fictional, of counterpower. This is not, however, the path that the present moment demands us and that the NAP wants to follow in this debate of the State Budget for 2021. For the NAP, it is very clear how important the Budget is to reach the stage of debate in the specialty, especially at a time like the current one, when the country, Europe and the world are drawn to a scenario of enormous challenges, perhaps the most complex we have ever experienced. Is it therefore worth asking: a country that is experiencing a health crisis that has itself generated an unprecedented social and economic crisis and still unknown proportions, which has also stagnated in the fight against the greatest and most perennial crises of our time, the climate crisis, can afford to enter into a political crisis without, before, exhausting all the tools at its disposal to prevent it? For the NAP, no! That is why it is essential, and since the first time we have warned it, that the State budget is effectively aligned with the country's economic recovery and resilience plan, in absolutely fundamental matters such as the investment to be made in the National Health Service; in the valorization of professionals and risk subsidies; in combating poverty, promoting the creation of a national strategy; in the guarantee of social support through a basic emergency income; in the reduction of social and regional inequalities that still persist; in support of young people, combating the precariousness or insecurity that they feel every day, including in the university context; in the renegotiating of disastrous options for the country, such as the contracts of the New Bank, road PPPs, or even the regime of the gold visas; in the serious fight against corruption, strengthening the means necessary for this purpose; in strengthening animal protection or ensuring that there are effective responses to combat climate change and preserving our natural heritage. And here, one of the concerns that we cannot help but highlight is precisely the need for a greater commitment to the preservation of habitats and ecosystems, because if it is true that we are not the first generation to suffer from the impact of climate change, we may well be the last generation of politicians to have the opportunity to reverse their effects before the point of non-return. But for this, it is necessary to be a commitment budget, a progressive and hopeful budget for the country and for the planet, that the Government and the Socialist Party are in fact available for dialogue and not to remain equidistant, as they have begun in the negotiations of the Budget in general, and that they are available to really listen to the various sensitivities of the political forces that have pledged themselves to collaborate in the search for solutions. That is what citizens and citizens asked you to do during the last legislative elections. Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This is not a time of hesitation or waste of opportunity. That is why, more than ever, the State budget for 2021 has to be a plural budget that meets the challenges of our time. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u261	You have the floor, Mr Ventura, for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u262	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government : Mr. Prime Minister is right, this is an irrevocable budget. It is the Budget that irrevocably leaves almost all behind. Leave behind the Portuguese who are without a family doctor, and who will continue; leave behind the security forces, which, for example, in the Azores and Madeira, see their subsystem now delivered to the regional safes and not to the national safes; leave behind the millions of pensioners who will not see their pension updated this year, to pay other social benefits to others who often did not contribute 1 cent to our system and to many who, as always, preferred not to do anything. But it is also the Budget that leaves behind those who have suffered the most with this crisis — hotels, tourism, restoration — and who see a measure of magic, a credit for VAT or a voucher with any pompous name, which will not solve a single problem of one of the sectors most devastated by our crisis and the crisis we live in. It is the budget that leaves transparency behind when many million will come from the European Union. It is the Budget that marks the end of an artificial marriage, to see now join other political forces and non-registered Members to enable this Budget. Mr. Prime Minister will be able to keep this government, with non-registered or registered Members, with parliamentary groups on the left, or, if necessary, with the Arrival, to enable his own Government.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u263	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u264	Your party and your government would be able to do everything to continue to perform their duties. [[Protests of PS Members.]] We'll see, we'll see, we'll see, we'll see! And history will teach us what has to happen. We'll see what happens in the future. But there is one thing, Mr. Prime Minister, which we also know about this budget, is that he will not come to an end, as this government will not come to an end either, and the socialists themselves do not believe that it will come to an end. There is another thing we know about this Budget: its execution will not come to an end, but the bill that will come from it will reach the Portuguese pocket by next year. Here again will be the right to solve the problems that you have managed, to re-emerge this country, as always, once again, to solve what the Socialist Party has let happen.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u265	For an intervention by the Socialist Party, Mr Hugo Pires has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u266	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Are we able to respond to a pandemic crisis, which has become an economic and social crisis, and at the same time to combat climate change? The answer lies in this State budget and in the work that the governments of the Socialist Party have developed over the past five years. The answer is in this Budget, which, in addition to responding to the pandemic and protecting those who need the most, is a budget that takes care of the future, which wants to continue to contribute to transform Portugal into a prosperous, equitable society, which places on a modern economy that is competitive and efficient in the use of its resources. The answer lies in the performance of our economy, which last year grew above the European average, while we were able to reduce greenhouse gas emissions at a very satisfactory rate, in a clear signal that wealth can be created from a more neutral society in carbon. Climate change has led to a sense of urgency in the search for answers, which requires decisive steps towards carbon neutrality. Decarbonizing, valuing our territory, taking advantage of our renewable endogenous resources, preserving ecosystems and biodiversity and moving towards a circular economy, capable of ensuring a fair transition, are our priorities. The year 2021 will be marked by the country's economic and social recovery. Climate action will assert itself as the engine of this recovery, through sustainable financing, green taxation and environmental education. In order to achieve the goal of carbon neutrality in 2050, public investment is estimated to be around EUR 2000 million per year, in which EUR 1.5 billion comes from European funds and EUR 500 million from the Environment Fund. Privilege sustainable urban mobility and bet on changing Portuguese mobility standards is a central concern in the transport policy of this Government. It is proof of this that the Government has given support to the reorganization of the sector, the reduction of tariffs, the strengthening of supply and the decarbonisation of fleets. The two programmes to support public transport will have an allocation of more than EUR 200 million in 2021, thus contributing to the reduction of emissions and significantly reducing the financial effort of families. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But if public transport is a fundamental pillar for economic development, for social and territorial cohesion and for meeting the targets in reducing emissions, the decarbonisation of the energy system is probably the most important factor in achieving carbon neutrality. From the head, next year, the end of the production of electricity from the coal plants of Sines and the Pego is planned to bet, as an alternative, on a highly decarbonized electro-productive system, from our renewable endogenous resources — the wind, the sun, the water and the biomass — but also because Portugal has developed a reliable electrical system capable of dealing with the variability that betting on renewables has been introduced. The last solar auctions have revealed that Portugal is on the right track, beating successive world records and recording the lowest price in this energy source, which brings gains in the order of EUR 559 million for consumers over the next 15 years. But respecting the limits of the planet is also moving towards a circular economic model. Today, it is absolutely unsustainable and unrealistic to insist on a linear economy model in which it is extracted, transformed, used and discarded. We cannot base the logic of economic development on environmentally harmful models, on the contrary, we must accelerate this transition by placing a policy that reduces, reuses and recycles resources. The circular economy represents a set of opportunities, particularly in bio-economics. We hope that this economic activity will be oriented towards products and services of a biological basis, with an innovative and local profile. Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Members: Finally, I want to leave a note of confidence in the future. We live an extraordinary moment in our lives, a moment by which none of us thought to pass, a moment that demands that all of us be up to our responsibilities. Suspecting the short-term political tactic, at the risk of mortgageting all the advances that Portugal has achieved in the last five years, and it is irresponsible, above all, to turn its backs on Portuguese. Now there were those who understood to make the way alone, joining their vows to the right. For our part, the PS here will be, with the same commitment, with the same availability, with the same strength and with the same determination to continue to do more and better for Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[In the meantime, President Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u267	You have the floor for a request for clarification, Mr Nuno Carvalho, from the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u268	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have listened very carefully to the words here concerning environmental concern and energy transition. As far as environmental concern is concerned, I have listened very carefully to the expression « turn around or not turn around ». Now, there is a report from the Court of Auditors on ecological public procurement, which is a commitment made by this Government in a resolution from the Council of Ministers, which says that the execution of ecological public procurement is the same as nothing, is the same as zero. I would therefore say that between turning my back or facing the problem, this government has decided to turn its back. But this, taking into account the concern that it has also conveyed with regard to energy and energy transition, speaking of a project in which I believe there is unanimity, around the concerns of green hydrogen, around the concerns of cost and the execution of a project for the economy and not to be able to take good advantage of a form of energy just because they are planning badly,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u269	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u270	... Mr President, do you think that there is, or does there not exist, the risk of having an excessive cost to our economy in this way of using green hydrogen? Mr President, do you consider that the Government has fulfilled what ecological concerns should be when the report of the Court of Auditors — I stress, Mr Member, the report of the Court of Auditors, one more which has been uncomfortable for you — pointed out serious errors in the implementation of environmental public procurement, which was a fundamental way to meet environmental concerns? The State, i.e. the Government, is the largest consumer and buyer in this country. The state, the government, you have decided to turn your back on the environment and ignore environmental criteria that you have set. Do you think that this is a way to demonstrate this concern? You think they did? I have to say that, between talking so much about the PSD and between the concern with a Budget that tries to prove that it is more blogtic than the Block Left itself, I think you are. Members are in a political blackout: they are without ideology, they are out of the way. Worse than that, they don't have a way to explain their own mistakes. With regard to energy, energy transition and the environment you have spoken about here, I believe that you have lost the train and are having serious problems: you have no strategy for the country. They talk about the strategy of the other parties, talk about the PSD response and talk about what they couldn't do. Mr Deputy, political blackout. Don't you think this is your case? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u271	You have the floor to answer Mr Hugo Pires from the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u272	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I am grateful for the question from the PSD Member and, in speaking of turning back on the environment, I just wanted to say that it was in the PSD Government and the CDS-PP that the projects for electricity mobility for the country were put in the drawer the new projects for renewable energy and that it was this PSD bench that voted against an initiative, that was the one of the PART (Tax Reduction Support Plan in Public Transport), the initiative of the single steps that contributed decisively to the decarbonization of society and, above all, the family budget. Therefore, if you want to talk about the party that turned its back on the environment, then the PSD, in an expression of its parliamentary leader, owes an apology, not to PS, but to Portuguese, because during its legislature it turned its back on sustainable development. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u273	Oh!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u274	I note that you did not have a word on the Budget and, finally, I would just like to leave you a note: in this Budget some EUR 2800 million is planned for the environment area. Do you know the words of the latest PSD State Budget for the environment area? It was 750 million euros. We are talking less than EUR 2100 million in your government, in the last budget of the state you presented, as environmental money. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I therefore believe that we are clear about who has turned, and who has seen, the backs to sustainable development and environmental policy. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u275	There are no more entries for today and before this plenary meeting is closed, I give the floor to Mr. Maria da Luz Rosinha, to make several announcements by the Bureau. You have the floor, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u276	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, have entered the Bureau, and have been admitted, Bills No. 575 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) and 576 / XIV / 2. a ( BE). That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-27.u277	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow we will have two sessions, one at 10 a.m. and one at 3 p.m. contrary to what happened in other years, the afternoon session will not only be for the final declarations and for the regimental votes. That is not possible, because we have much time for discussion in the morning, and therefore the session will end at the time when it is over. So tomorrow we will resume work at 10 a.m. on the first point of the discussion, in general, of Law No 60 / XIV / 2.a ( GOV ) — Law of the Great Options for 2021 - 2023 and of the Proposal for Law No 61 / XIV / 2.a ( GOV ) — Approves the State budget for 2021 ; the second point is the closure of the same discussion and, in the third point, we will have the legislative votes at the end of the debate. Thank you very much and good night to all. The session is closed. [[It was 19 hours and 27 minutes.]]
