ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists. The session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 6 minutes.]] Mr. Secretary Nelson Peralta is going to read the file, and one of them has entered today. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members have entered the Bureau and several legislative initiatives have been admitted. First, I refer to Parliamentary Survey No. 3 / XIV / 1. a (CH) — Establishment of a parliamentary committee of inquiry to the procedures for the acquisition of personal protective equipment in the context of the fight against COVID-19. Parliamentary Opinions Nos 14 / XIV / 1 were also included in the Bureau. a ( BE ) — Concerning Decree-Law No 23 / 2020 of 22 May, which lays down the rules for the conclusion of management partnership contracts in the field of health, and 15 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Concerning Decree-Law No 20 - C / 2020 of 7 May, which establishes exceptional social protection measures in the context of the COVID-19 pandemic. Bills Nos 393 / XIV / 1 were also entered into the Bureau. a ( PCP ) — Ensures extraordinary social protection support for workers without access to other social protection instruments and mechanisms, which falls to 10. the Commission, 394 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Appointment of members of independent administrative entities, down to 5. the Commission, in connection with 1. a and 6. a Commissions, 395 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Determines the incompatibility of the term of office of Member to the Assembly of the Republic with the exercise of positions in social bodies of entities involved in professional sporting competitions (14 ). the amendment to Law No 7 / 93 of 1 March ), which falls to 14. the Commission, 396 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Strengthen transparency in accession contracts ( Alt. Decree-Law No 446 / 85, of 25 October, which falls to 6. the Commission, and 397 / XIV / 1. a ( CH) — For the immediate return of prisoners released under Law No 9 / 2020, an exceptional regime for flexibility in the enforcement of penalties and measures for free of charge under the COVID-19 pandemic to prisons where they were serving the deprivation of liberty penalty, which falls to 1. the Commission. Resolution Nos 467 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Support for non-governmental environmental charities organisations in the context of the COVID-19 crisis, which falls to 8. the Commission, 468 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Creates a possible committee to monitor the economic and social recovery process, 470 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends the assessment and definition of environmental protection, public safety and spatial planning measures in the installation and management of fire camps, which falls to 11. the Commission, 471 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recommends that the Government reverse the alienation of the New Bank, its transfer to the public sphere and specialized support to micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, which falls to 5. the Commission, 472 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Action plan for a renewed school, which goes down to 8. Commission, 473 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends that the Government take measures to mitigate the negative effects of the COVID-19 crisis on vocational education, which falls to 8. the Commission, and 474 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government promote improved air quality in Portugal, which falls to 11. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u3	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary Nelson Peralta. Let us then start the agenda, the first of which is political statements. To this end, Mr Perestrello of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group has the floor first.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The response of the Portuguese to the health crisis we are still undergoing has been exemplary in many respects. Families, workers and businesses, public, private and social sectors, national and local authorities, all mobilized to respond to an unknown threat, which does not spare anyone, but, as always, is more severe and violent with the poorest, the sick, the older. The collective effort to combat the pandemic has therefore been deserved repeated acts of public recognition for the work of the most diverse agents in its fight. Today, on this occasion, I reaffirm, on behalf of the Socialist Party, the value of the work of those who have never lowered their arms and who, in a framework of great personal, family, business, economic and social demands, were able to keep the country functioning and somehow mitigate the impacts of such a great crisis. Without disrespecting or undervaluing anyone, today, on behalf of the Socialist Party, I would like to express, in particular, the recognition for the action carried out in this period by the Portuguese Armed Forces and the military, militarized and civilians who have chosen to serve Portugal in the Armed Forces. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is no surprise how they have acted in this health crisis and at the same time maintained the readiness to respond to the missions that continue to be developed daily, in scenarios of special complexity in Portugal and abroad, always maintaining the safety of women and men on mission, dignitying and prestigious the Armed Forces and Portugal, in Europe and in the world. A rigorous planning enabled actions to be conducted in a coordinated and sustained manner, contributing to the health and well-being of the population by supporting an extended range of entities with a civil and military linkage noted in Portugal, but also within the European Union and NATO ( North Atlantic Treaty Organization ). The work developed by military health, with a reference to the commitment and response capacity of the Military Laboratory for Chemicals and Pharmaceuticals, as well as the work of reflection and study relevant to decision-making developed by the COVID-19 Knowledge Office, created in the General Staff of the Armed Forces. The functional organization established for the crisis, allowing for permanent monitoring of the situation and the health protection of staff, including those in the National Highlighted Forces, showing, Mrs. Members, the ability to adapt the Armed Forces, according to the phases and needs felt in the fight against the pandemic. at the level of logistical support, we stress the repatriation of Portuguese citizens, the transport of patients, the establishment of reception centres in military units, support for homeless people, and the equipping of reception centres dedicated to the most disadvantaged and immigrant citizens. We must not forget the assembly of advanced campaign hospitals and medical posts, as well as the storage and distribution of articles from the strategic reserve of individual drugs and protective equipment by the Military Laboratory of Chemicals and Pharmaceuticals, in support of the National Health Service ( SNS ). I also welcome the support given to the Ministry of Education in the reopening of numerous schools in the continent and islands, in a work to raise awareness and distribute personal protective equipment. It also adds a reference to awareness-raising and training actions among fishing communities, in support of the Ministry of the Sea. When we still did not know how to deal with the difficulties encountered in many homes in the country, in what seems to have been the main fragility in the early phase of the pandemic, the military were among the first to support the homes of the elderly in disinfection operations, but also in the reception and treatment of those people in the military health structure. Mr President, in the National Defence Commission, all parties witnessed the Minister of National Defence and the four military leaders' recognition of the high value of the armed forces' action in this crisis. Indeed, the seriousness of the problems and the need for a prompt response have contributed to a broad political-parliamentary consensus in the positive political assessment of the actions of the national authorities. We hope that the progressive disappearance of the dramatic memory of the health emergency will not constitute a sufficient reason for the parties to value political differences more than the construction of solutions for the economic and social response that is now required. The budgetary review and the government's plan to relaunch the economy are the first tests we will have before us. of Europe, there is good news and, as the Prime Minister has already passed on to the parties at the beginning of this week, we hope soon to know the European reconstruction plan, starting at the beginning of 2021. The parties with parliamentary seats have already received the Prime Minister's political commitment to involve their contributions in the preparation of the economic and social stabilisation plan, a plan with an institutional dimension, which facilitates public procurement and deepens administrative simplification, a plan that strengthens support for businesses, with the extension of moratoriums and the extension of credit lines, a plan for employment with responses to the post-Layoff phase and for vocational training and also also important, a plan that includes social responses, from the strengthening of the National Health Service to the extension of some social support created in the current context.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u5	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u6	The whole country knows that the Government of the Socialist Party does not have a majority in this Parliament. However, it has been able, in the last five years, without this majority, to govern with varied parliamentary support, more or less structured or punctual. With these support, we managed to govern the country in order to achieve budgetary balance, in a context of economic growth above the European average, with job creation and social consolidation. This balance, this growth and cohesion were essential in this crisis scenario to ensure our ability to respond to problems and to mitigate strong economic and social impacts. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It would be strange if, in a context of social and economic emergency, political parties with parliamentary seats had now put aside any solution. These solutions will require commitments from the PS and the government, but they will also require commitments from each of the parties sitting in this Parliament. It is not a time for economic facilitation or ideological obstinacy. We are all aware that the State needs resources and that only the economy is capable of generating them. Revenues will tend to decrease and expenditure will increase.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u7	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u8	I'm done now, Mr. President. To correct this path, strengthening the economy and the state, to have a stronger and more coherent social fabric, the balance of public policies will be the central axis of success, not of this party or of that party, of this government or of the other, but of Portugal and Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u9	Mr. Marcos Perestrello, four Mr. Members to ask for clarification, but you do not have time to answer, which is always something 'irritating', as you now say.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u10	There's time, there's time!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u11	Ah, there's time, there's time! I was being a mechanic. Therefore, you have the floor to ask for clarification, Mrs Ana Miguel dos Santos, of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Marcos Perestrello, the reality has come to be right to what the PSD has said since the beginning of this pandemic: the Armed Forces have been and are the most well-prepared civil protection agent for this type of complex missions, with more differentiated human and material resources, a unique organizational culture and discipline, and they are perfectly within the kind of missions to be carried out by the Armed Forces in times of peace. Therefore, the work of the Armed Forces in the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic was essential to control and ensure the return to so desired normality. That is why the Portuguese civil protection model should quickly adapt to these new threats and respond efficiently: use effective resources, without waste of human and material resources, especially because of the difficult economic times that we will inevitably face. A model that does not require more coordinators, but rather more operational ones. That is, we need more « soldiers» and less « commanders ». We need a model more focused on the type of threat, challenges and risks, in which the Armed Forces, when called to carry out the mission, have a key role in planning the operation, in order to achieve the best possible result, because the Armed Forces are the only entity that knows the human and material resources of the Armed Forces themselves. The Armed Forces are not even a mere resource provider, they are much more than that. Thus, we note what we have been saying since the beginning: the 21st century Armed Forces are not only the guarantor of territorial integrity or national sovereignty, they are much more than that, a preferred civil protection agent for these new threats, risks and challenges, which require integrated responses from all state agents, without institutional complexes or normative prejudices. In conclusion, and in order to comply with the time available to me, the Government cannot allow the funds allocated to the Emergency Military Support Unit, whose implementation rate in 2019 remained in a mere 6, 6 %, and health support, the rate of which remained 69 %, to be ignored because the management of a crisis, Mrs and Mrs. Members, it's in the DNA (deoxyribonucleic acid) of the Armed Forces. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u13	Mr João Vasconcelos, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Marcos Perestrello, as we know and as defined by the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, the Armed Forces is responsible for the military defence of the Republic, and this is its primary function, but they also have other functions, constitutionally consecrated, such as collaboration in civil protection missions, in tasks related to meeting the basic needs and improving the quality of life of the population, which is what the Armed Forces have been doing, with various activities and providing resources and capabilities throughout the country, in health aid and in combating the pandemic of COVID-19. But they also do so in other missions, such as in the fight against rural fires in previous years, and will certainly not stop doing so, if necessary, during the coming new era. The Left Block wants to highlight the role that the Armed Forces have played in these missions, all the work, on the part of these men and women, at the service, as I said, of the Country and populations. A very important role has been developed by the Military Laboratory for Chemicals and Pharmaceuticals, in the production of large quantities of disinfectant gel and other products, which have been fundamental to the fight against the pandemic and the strengthening of the National Health Service, at the service of the country, as has been said here.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u15	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u16	And this was one of the issues I wanted to ask Mr Marcos Perestrello, who, in good time, brought the role of defense here. As you know, the PSD/CDS government is proposing to extinguish the Military Laboratory, which, in the opinion of the Left Block, would be a tremendous mistake not only for the Armed Forces but also for the National Health Service and the Country. The question I wanted to leave you with was to know whether or not we would be much worse, we would not be as we are now, whether the extinction of the Military Laboratory had gone forward and whether or not that extinction would have been a tremendous mistake. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u17	Mr André Ventura has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u18	Mr President, Mr Marcos Perestrello, in good time, brings here the issue of the Armed Forces — a fundamental matter — to whom we should be grateful, despite its image being stained by having the Air Force carry prisoners to their homes, when it did not do so to Portuguese displaced outside its territory. According to a survey conducted at the end of last year, 70% of the Armed Forces say that there is too much influence on political power in their structure. What does the PS do to fight this? The honourable Member spoke in security and prestige, but the case of Tankos is there to demonstrate to you, in particular, as former Secretary of State for Defence, that there is much to be done in matters of defence, prestige and security of the Armed Forces. In no democratic country would the case of Tanks happen without the main figures of the State being or could be held accountable. Over the past five years, they have left the ranks of the Armed Forces 15 111 officers and, in the last decade, 25% of their elements have left the institution. The Socialist Party is here today to tell us that it is all right, 'applause', 'great armed forces'.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u19	Mr. Deputy, you want to finish. He's out of time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u20	I will finish, Mr. President. The great question that should be put here today was the following: what will the Socialist Party do to strengthen and regain the prestige of the Portuguese Armed Forces?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u21	To reply, Mr Marcos Perestrello has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u22	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for your questions, which confirm the opportunity for the issue that the Socialist Party today wanted to bring here. To some extent, I would like to point out the positive way in which the overall assessment of the National Defence Commission's specialty work was carried out here and how there is a broad political consensus in Portugal as to the quality of the service provided by the Armed Forces, which is all the more valid and greater the difficulties in which they develop their mission. We are all aware of the difficulties the Armed Forces have faced in recent years, particularly at the level of recruitment, as well as at the level of staff retention in their frameworks. It is in this framework of difficulties, and that is why the quality of its action should be even more emphasized. Ask me whether Mr. João Vasconcelos would have been a mistake to extinguish the Military Laboratory. I believe that the work that the Military Laboratory has developed in this particular context, for those who have never looked at the work of the Military Laboratory even before this crisis, in other contexts, responds, and thoroughly, to its question. Mrs Ana Miguel Santos called into question the civil protection model we have and the role of the Armed Forces in this model. I tell you, Mrs. Member, that our model of civil protection has already failed several times in the past, but this time it has answered, and it has answered being the well-integrated and well-articulated Armed Forces in this model,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u23	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u24	... with the legal framework necessary to be able to support civil protection in civil protection missions and to be able to support security forces as well, if necessary, in situations where this is justified, and in this case it has not been justified. Mr Ventura, on a special point, which I know comes very close to the speech that you like to make and that you are dealing with the transport of prisoners, I would like to say to you that this is usually one of the missions of the Air Force, to transport prisoners to the islands and islands to the continent, and in my view it seems a safer way to transport than in commercial flights. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u25	Mr. Marcos Perestrello, Mr. Perestrello, are still registered to make requests for clarification to you. Mr António Filipe, Mr João Gonçalves Pereira and Mr Inês de Sousa Real, therefore I give the floor to Mr António Filipe. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u26	Mr President, Mr Marcos Perestrello, in his political statement he made several references to the situation that the country is going through with regard to the pandemic, but he focused his attention on the question of the Armed Forces, and that is precisely where I would also like to focus on the issues I would like to put to him. Mr President, it is no surprise that the armed forces have corresponded to what we expected from them. Indeed, that is not surprising to those who know the Portuguese Armed Forces, but the fact that they are not surprised does not mean that it is not to register and enhance that the Armed Forces have answered « present», when the country, in a difficult situation, needed them. This gives us the assurance that we can rely on our Armed Forces to carry out their missions, at the service of the country. But it is also important to mention, among other aspects, and has already been pointed out here by several Members. Members, the Military Laboratory. We have here a testimony of the importance of the Military Laboratory, simple, although, but very relevant, in the disinfectant gel that has been provided to us, but it is not summed up in this. The speaker displayed the disinfectant gel bottle placed on the top of the bench. In the last legislation, when the PCP here proposed that the Military Laboratory, because of its capabilities, be promoted, passed the term, the national laboratory of the medicine, without losing its connection to the military institution, we spoke alone. Therefore, although this capacity of the Military Laboratory is already recognized today and there is already a provision in the State Budget that is in force for this leap from the Military Laboratory to the national laboratory of the medicine to be effectively given. And the way this Laboratory corresponded to the country in this situation is proof of that. However, Mr President, the Armed Forces cannot be considered either, allow me to say,'stick for every harvest', i.e. where there are missing people moving forward to the Armed Forces. There must be respect for the missions of the Armed Forces and for that for which the military were effectively trained. And, in fact, it is questionable the use of the riflesters that will be done now, in the bathing season,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u27	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u28	I will finish, Mr. President. As I was saying, it is questionable the use of the Marines that will be done now, in the bathing season, to bridge the lack of effectiveness in the Maritime Police. It is possible to create here a situation of some misconceptions, which are not good either for the image of the Armed Forces or for the functions that it is necessary to perform. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u29	Mr João Gonçalves Pereira, from the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u30	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I would like to begin by congratulating and greeting Mr Marcos Perestrello on the subject which he brought to the political declaration of the Socialist Party, namely the involvement, and the good involvement of the Armed Forces in the fight against COVID. We, throughout this period, and not only Parliament, but the generality of the Portuguese, recognize that we had true heroes, whether doctors, nurses, security forces or, of course, also the Armed Forces. And the Armed Forces deserve not only a proper thanks, but also to highlight their absolutely exemplary performance, from the assembly of campaign hospitals to the reception centres, to the provision of thousands of beds, to the distribution of materials, to testing, to the decontamination of elderly homes, to the distribution of food to homeless people, and even, as mentioned, and well, Mr António Filipe, to the provision of disinfectants themselves. More: they did all this, despite the enormous unsustainability of the Armed Forces, and it's not just the CDS that says it. Less than a year ago, the Chief of Staff of the Armed Forces himself said the situation in the Portuguese Armed Forces was unsustainable. And he said: 4100 places are missing in the Army, 535 in the Navy, 950 in the Air Force. But if we saw the global numbers in 2019, there were just over 25 000 military personnel, and the fact is that there was a commitment from this government and the Prime Minister that there should be about 32 000. Therefore, Mr. Marcos Perestrello, it is very good for the PS to come here to praise the role and intervention of the Armed Forces, and we accompany him, but I would like to ask him the question of when the Socialist Party will reverse the situation of unsustainability of the Armed Forces.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u31	To ask for clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Inês de Sousa Real of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u32	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Marcos Perestrello, the NAP obviously accompanies the recognition that it is due to our military, the Armed Forces, indeed, we have already done so throughout the hearings within the National Defence Commission, and this is the moment when we should record that, together with other professionals, they have played a very important role, in addition to what is often their humanitarian mission abroad, filling up needs and putting into practice their know-how in the protection of our people, in this crisis and in the fight against COVID-19. This was an example of disinfection in school structures, support for homeless people, the provision of resources for campaign hospitals, essential at this moment so challenging for all of us. However, and I do not call into question the relevance of the Armed Forces, there is a question that we cannot, in fact, circumvent, which is deeper and on which we must reflect, which has to do with precisely what we have given back to the Armed Forces, starting precisely by the little attraction of the military career. We must rethink the way, because gradually there has been a fall in effectiveness, particularly in squares — we cannot always think of the other levels, especially the officials — whose number has reached historic minimums in recent years. This, together with the degradation of facilities and equipment, is a clear constraint. Mr President, we would like to hear about this and whether the PS Parliamentary Group agrees or not that it is necessary to take a path of recovery and revaloration of these professionals and these infrastructures so that they can carry out the different tasks assigned to them. With this scenario, also associated with the parks, I ask whether or not I agree with the NAP, on the one hand, that the labour assumptions of the military should be improved, also increasing the interest of the young people themselves in entering the Armed Forces, and on the other hand, which is of the most elementary justice the allocation of pay supplements or other measure of professional valorization, in view of the extraordinary effort which is often required, in the normal context, of these military, and which is now added, in the context of crisis in our country. We would like to know your answer, Mr Commissioner, because the recognition obviously knows well, but at the end of the month there are accounts to be paid and professional stability gives them security that is also due to them. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u33	You have the floor to answer, Mr Marcos Perestrello.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u34	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for your kind comments and for the kind references you have made to my speech. I would like to reassure Mr António Filipe, because I think he has been with the same attention as I was in the hearing of the Director-General of the Maritime Authority and we realize that the Navy military who are going to support the Maritime Authority will not replace maritime police, they will, first, give support above all in the maritime rescue component. Therefore, Mr President, you know that this point is not being rigorous. Mr. João Gonçalves Pereira, I could no longer disagree with you when you say we have a problem of unsustainability in the Armed Forces. An unsustainable structure is unable to give the response that was given to a crisis with the dimension of what we went through,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... above all in a framework where he was able to maintain the missions already assigned to him. An unsustainable structure is not able to maintain more than 100 men on a central mission for the stabilization of the Central African Republic, many others for the stabilization of the situation in Afghanistan, it is not able to have people scattered around the world on security stabilization missions and training of military and police officers of other nationalities. Therefore, Mr João Gonçalves Pereira and Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, agreeing to the part where they say that the situation is complex, that there are difficulties, that it is necessary to work — and the government knows better than anyone, having given evidence of this in the hearings to which you are speaking. Members have seen that there is a long way to go. Ladies and gentlemen, they cannot take sides, because they also have the power of initiative, the power of support and the power to change things as they are, recognizing this work, I want to reject the idea of unsustainability at all. Mr President, with the few seconds left, I would like to note the second part of my speech. The way ahead will compromise-CL to all of us, is a path that will require the contribution of all — the Socialist Party, as a majority party in this House, but also of the other parties here with seats. The Socialist Party, over the past five years, has had to govern with timely support and more or less structured support that allowed us to reach a situation of some consolidation and budgetary balance and economic growth, which allowed us to have the capacity to respond and some strike to deal with this crisis. Now, these supports can't leave now, when the country needs them the most! The Socialist Party will be prepared for the commitments that need to be made, for the construction of the solutions that respond to the situation of the economic and social crisis in which the country will enter, but all must be available to make commitments. Whoever lays his feet on the earth and is unable to take a step towards building a common solution will not be providing a service either to his party or to his country. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u35	We move on to the political declaration of the PSD Parliamentary Group. Mr Duarte Marques has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u36	Ex. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Portugal, Europe and the world go through an exceptional period, without parallel in our recent history. Fortunately, Portugal, through the exemplary union of democratic institutions and political parties, has sought to respond to this challenge, placing the fight against the virus and national interest on a plane above biases that, in fundamental matters for our lives, take no place. It is fundamental, therefore, to cross the storm of given hands, losing as many lives as possible. This motto and this example should be followed in order to respond to the tragedy of the fires that, year after year, hit our territory, from north to south of the country, and that so much fear causes the Portuguese. It is true that, in the recent past, it was possible to sit at the same table all political forces and institutions in order to change, once and for all, the paradigm of fires. Independent committees have been appointed, solutions have been presented, the Government and the Assembly have approved unprecedented legislation and investment in combat and prevention seems not to have known limitations, but, if commitment was absolute, reforms and changes have been much less than the promised and, above all, far less than necessary for a more effective fight. The position of the PSD has been very clear: to prevent fires, deep reforms are necessary in the forest, in the design of the landscape, and this means a clear bet on structural prevention, but structural changes cannot be held hostage by prejudice or ideological dogmas and, while the landscape does not change, the pillar of the firefight continues to be fundamental to protect people. Not everything that has been done in the recent past has proved effective and many of the changes, some of them in a hurry, have not produced the best results. Unfortunately, recent years have revealed failures, delays, discoordination between forces, asymmetric investment in various entities, too much propaganda and what is lacking in political competence rises in arrogance and lack of transparency. For this year, as in previous years, nothing good is expected, not only by the meteorology that, according to the IPMA ( Portuguese Institute of the Sea and the Atmosphere ), promises to be adverse, but also because, in the face of confinement and special rules for the elderly, it is quite likely that the cleaning of the land is beyond what it has been desired and what has been done in recent years. There can therefore be a step backwards and that is why the Government and Civil Protection have an added need not to fail, because either scenario is not good and tolerance to error is much less. We well know that it is impossible to completely prevent fires and that the mother nature is not always on our side, but, for that reason, the government and civil protection are required to do at least everything within their power to protect citizens, minimizing as much problems and threats as possible. This year's conditions of exception may not justify delays or lower competence. Today, as yesterday, the PSD continues to be with the Portuguese and to fulfil its role in Parliament, drawing attention to failures and proposing solutions. Our criticism is constructive and happens, only and only, because we want a safer, fairer and more supportive country. That is why it is imperative to draw the attention of the Government again. Once again, the DECIR (Special System of Combating Rural Fires) is not being accomplished: we are at the final stage of Level 2 and, once again, the proposed air resources are not all on the ground; there are no means in eight districts and there are four districts without any airway. The government continues to play with fire, but whoever burns is always the people. It is therefore important to ensure that, on 1 June, the date on which the third level begins, the intended means of strengthening is in fact operational. That's why we make this pressure. We recall that all reports say that air resources are fundamental to the initial fight and has been proven by all experts who, last year, the largest fire in the country, the Vila de Rey fire, grew thanks to the failure in the initial attack, because the heavy air medium that was supposed to be there, was, after all, in the north of the country, closed in a hangar. Knowing that the initial attack is fundamental, statistics say that 95 % of the fires are extinguished in the first hour and that 5 % of the large fires are responsible for 95 % of the burning area. Therefore we do not understand why the government has invested priorities and, in the DECIR this year, reduces air resources to the initial attack from 29, in 2019, to 26, and strengthens the extended attack. This is the opposite of what specialists say must be done. As regards agents, the directive reduces the number of firefighters, FEB ( Special Fire Force ) and GIPS ( Protection and Relief Intervention Group ). It is even planned to increase the number of divers, but nothing is known about these brigades; we do not know, after all, how many agents will be on the ground. By the way, I ask the following: and the forest slag force of the ICNF (Instituto da Conservação da Nature et das Foresta), which promised 160 elements? He hasn't left the paper yet. We have heard about investment and new equipment for all areas, a competition between the Ministries of Defence, the Environment, Agriculture and Internal Administration. Everyone has been able to re-equire themselves more, but this may reveal more lack of funding for the basic missions entrusted to it than mismanagement or mismanagement of the entities involved. Fires have been an excellent opportunity to re-equire structures that have become hostages to captivity. But when we heard about drones, more investment for the armed forces that was to be used, I would like to ask: were there money for so many people and firefighters, who represent 90% of the force on the ground, continue with cars from the 1980s, with mid-60s and sometimes driving vehicles that are already banned from walking on the road? That is, was there money for everyone, but those who are the fundamental part in fighting fires and who are always the first to arrive are despised? Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : The revenues of firefighters have been lowered in the last year thanks to confinement, and increased their responsibilities, but not so the government pays what it should, through the Ministry of Health or INEM (National Institute of Medical Emergency ), and this may call into question the response during the summer. There are several stories that are miscounted in the firefighting chapter and transparency is one of them. The government, despite promising, has again failed to make competitions for the leaders of Civil Protection. The government, although speaking about strengthening the training of agents, did not leave the PowerPoints again. Although he promised to recover the Kamov helicopters, they spent several years and we don't know what the government is going to do, and they're still locked up in hangars. Companies have been appointed to manage the reforestation in Pedrogão, and pilot projects have been decided in this region, but so far no evolution or result is known.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u37	Mr President, you have to conclude, because you have spent a lot of time at your disposal.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u38	I'm done now, Mr. President. Despite the promised and announced reinforcement of the SIRESP ( Integrated System of Emergency and Security Networks in Portugal ), we do not know whether this reinforcement was made and, after all, who paid and who operates the SIRESP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u39	Thank you very much, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u40	Mr President, I end with a word of thanks to all those who fight fire and help protect the Portuguese. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u41	Mr President, five Members have signed up to request clarification. Ladies and gentlemen. Then you will tell the Bureau how you intend to respond. You have the floor to ask for clarifications, Mr João Almeida, from the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u42	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Duarte Marques, first of all, I would like to point out and thank you for bringing about a very relevant subject at the moment and which, of course, because of the framework this year, was not as debated as it should have been. The preparation for the so-called "fire season" is crucial and Mr has raised some of the issues that are making more sense at the moment. The first of all, which requires clarification, is to know how it is possible to continue to have an operational directive that completely ignores the context in which this year's fire season will occur, i.e. there is no specificity for the movement of means through the land, there is no specificity about the reality of populations at this time, which is very different from a normal year. Therefore, neither in operational terms nor in terms of population were adapted to this reality the device and the combat plan this year. Then we have the issue of air resources. For years, Portugal, regardless of governments, has made a good investment in the initial attack. We are able to reach levels above 95 % of success at this stage, which is decisive, because the means involved in the initial attack are less and, if successful at that stage, obviously it is not going to have to engage in expanded attacks, which is much more difficult also from an operational point of view. For the first time, we have a reduction in air resources in the initial attack and an increase in air resources in the extended attack. I would like to ask you what you think about this strategic change that comes at the heart of everything all the governments have done in Portugal in recent years, and they have done so with enormous success. Does he or she consider it essential, or is he or she not, now that, fortunately, we are able to calm down in relation to the fight against COVID-19, debate the device for this year and adapt it to the circumstances we live in, clarifying such important issues as the option for the extended attack in relation to the initial attack? I shall finish, Mr President, on behalf of the CDS with a word to all the women and men who are already fighting the fires this year and who are carrying out a mission of enormous importance from the point of view of public service. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President Fernando Negrão took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u43	You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mrs Eurídice Pereira, from the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u44	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Duarte Marques, let us go directly to the issue, without hesitation, speak with transparency and, in particular, seek clarification. Until I bring here, as soon as I have to talk, matters that have not been thoroughly explored in your political statement, but which, however, have included public statements made this week, even in an interview with a television channel. Mr. Deputies, the government has executed emergency planning and civil protection, it's done, it's public, it's known. The fact is that, from this planning, there is a limitation — a limitation of seven helicopters, in the general count of 37 which should be, therefore, 30 on the ground — which is due to the need to wait for the decision of the LOU’s Administrative Court, in the face of a precautionary measure that a company filed with respect to the tender, which was opened in November 2009 by the Force Area and which is not completed. We are therefore faced with an administrative act. But the honourable Member, not here, but on television, said another fact: he left the suspicion that there would be no more than three or four air resources. Mr President, this does not correspond to reality, and therefore it is important to clarify why this matter of sending itself to the public information on which there is no certainty creates absolutely unnecessary apprehensions. [[P.S.'s applause.]] There are, in fact, three helicopters mentioned in the National Operational Directive which are not in the airfields as a result of the technical risk assessment. I mean, where are they?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u45	Oh, they're saved!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u46	Let me finish. Where are they? The one of Fafe is in Monchique, the one of Cernache, Coimbra, is in Louisiana and the one of Santa Comba Dão is in Vale de Cambra. Therefore, they were positioned on the basis of the risk assessment, precisely because, as you know, the Directive is indicative planning and, in the face of the risk, it is permitted and it is essentially essential that the means be placed in accordance with that risk. Basically, I am saying the following: it is essential to manage them accordingly, depending on the risk.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u47	Madam Member, I call your attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u48	Mr President, I shall conclude, not without mentioning the following: Mr Omit, and probably very badly, in his political statement, the deliberations taken last day 21 in the Council of Ministers, where it has already been approved, as I think I know...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u49	Mrs. Deputy, I'll draw your attention again to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u50	I'm really going to finish, Mr. President. As I was saying, he omitted the deliberations taken on the 21st day at the Council of Ministers, where a huge set of instruments on civil protection and management of forests and the rural world has already been approved.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u51	Mrs. Deputy, it'll be three minutes.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u52	So, honourable Member, if you knew why you omitted? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u53	You now have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr Ricardo Vicente, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u54	Mr President, Mr Duarte Marques, after the major fires in 2017, there was a broad scientific and even political consensus that the construction of a new integrated rural fire management system was necessary, and that more than identifying the failures of the current system, it was necessary to be consistent and change the lines of action, so that for the first time, the objectives to be achieved, in particular, the reduction of the number of fires lasting more than 24 hours, the reduction of fires with more than 1000 ha and the reduction of the number of fires, among others, that in the last 20 years I have never — I stress, ever — been achieved, some of these years with the PSD and CDS governments. The National Plan for Integrated Management of Rural Fires has been delayed for two years, because so far there is no action plan. The Independent Technical Observatory, a body of this House, has already produced immense recommendations that have been ignored by the Government, although this House has approved a proposal from the Block, so that the Government produces an analysis report on scientific recommendations for combat and prevention. Some of them relate to the need to diversify the forest in Portugal, reducing the areas of rapid growth species, such as eucalyptus. I would like to ask you the question: is the PSD available, although it has never done so as a government, to support the proposal for a review of regional forestry planning plans in this regard? In addition to being responsible for ordination and firefighting policy, the State is also a forest owner and is failing, too here. The Government ignores all the scientific advice it has mobilized for the effect and the National Lawn Forest and other littoral burning forests, still today, had no right to more than the cutting and selling of burned wood. The Block today gave the Agriculture Commission a request for this visit to the National Lawn Plant, responding to the appeal of the experts who know it. Is the PSD available to approve this request? What about the rest of the parties? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u55	You have the floor to answer the requests for clarification, Mr Duarte Marques.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u56	Mr. President, I begin with the end by replying to Mr. De Bloco de Left. As I said from the rostrum, the PSD is always available to discuss, debate and approve reforms. In fact, I remember that the biggest reforms made in this country were always by the hand of the PSD. [[Oh!]] [[Oh!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u57	But, Mr President, I also tell you that because of the results of the reforms made in a hurry after the fires, in which the PSD abstained and in others until it ended up voting in favour of the great pressure there was in this House, the PSD is not available to be held hostage by ideological prejudices and dogmas about the forest and the environment. The PSD defends a forest that is profitable for owners, that is clean, useful and that again leads people to participate in the life of the forest. The PSD is not concerned about protecting ideology, which always questions the need for nature and people. Mrs. Member of the Socialist Party, what is it worth talking about when we have a more planed government that presents and which less executes? That is the frequent consequence of the government's plans! The PSD spoke of eight helicopters who were on the DECIR and were not on the ground.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u58	They're, they're, they're, they're,
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u59	The first socialists who spoke were outraged and from the afternoon of that day the Secretary of State came to recognize that the PSD was right. Once again, the PSD denounces and once again the government confirms that we were right! The PSD said that the means of coordination were missing, that they should already be on the ground — they are very useful, it is an innovation of this government; congratulations! — but they are not on the ground either! The Secretary of State confirmed that they would be on Tuesday or Wednesday. And I give you one more novelty: the precautionary provision, such as the means of coordination, which came to the ground after the PSD report, see only the luck, was decided today and the seven missing air resources will be able to go to the ground. Once again, the government confirms that we were right! I remember that in the middle of the fires last year, there was the largest fire in the country and the Kamov helicopters, which were the heavy means, were closed and hidden in a hangar in the north of the country, and no one knew they were not on the ground. Once again, because of PSD pressure, after a few days, helicopters were operating and helping people!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u60	I would like to draw your attention to time, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u61	I'm done now, Mr. President. Mr. João Almeida, your question makes all the sense and, even in defense of the government, I must say that the government has forgotten all that Mr. It is true that the DECIR did not foresee this, nor did there be any changes, but sent recommendations to firefighters, a list of recommendations,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u62	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u63	...of expensive means to acquire: "Buy your masks! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Luckily, the authorities...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u64	Mr. Duarte Marques, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u65	I am finishing now, Mr President, just with this message: the luck is that the authorities of this country, of the different parties, if they come forward, once again, and buy for the firemen what they fail to pay for! Why don't they pay for what they owe them and buy them material? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u66	Mr Duarte Marques, you can finish your speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u67	Those, yes, deserve our respect! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u68	Continuing requests for clarification to Mr Duarte Marques, Mr João Dias of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u69	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Duarte Marques, I begin by congratulating you on this and saying that we are in fact faced with a very relevant issue and on which you will recognize a serious intervention in the CFP with proposals and solutions that are perfectly aimed at the problems of forests and fires in Portugal. Conscious and aware of the reality and the problems faced by forest producers and why the country has to do with the prevention and fight against forest fires, the CFP, still last week, presented a bill that aims to define the temporary contingency regime for fuel management networks, whose implementation is quite important. Of course, Mr President, I would like to ask you whether you are available to pass this bill, not giving, as you did in the past, the statement for not saying precisely in this matter, when you went back after you said that you were following the CFP. this time, is it available to pass this bill, Mr? I would like to make this very clear, Mr President: we want the land cleaning to continue to be compulsory — it is an important and relevant requirement — but we believe that, as you said in the political statement, it is important to take into account the conditions resulting from the COVID-19, because there has been a restriction on the ability to carry out the cleaning work within the deadlines. It is therefore important that the conditions be created so that there is another relevance to the deadlines for carrying out these cleaning work. But I would like to make a comment to you on the air media: when I saw the honourable Member going up to the rostrum, I thought he was doing an act of contrition on the responsibility of the PSD for the extinction of the public air media company. In fact, former Minister Miguel Macedo of the PSD extinguished this company in 2013. Mr President, if this company had not been extinct, say if we had no other means of reply today with regard to the air resources available in the country, in a capacity for self-sufficient that does not occur. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u70	You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr André Silva, of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u71	Mr President, Mr Duarte Marques, as has been customary, is at this time that you begin to glimpse all that was to be done during autumn and winter, as well as various government omissions and inactions. I give only two examples: from now on, the extension of the simplified forest register, which only a week ago, appreciably, saw the light of the day, even though it had been promulgated almost a year ago by the President of the Republic. The other example is the cleaning of forest biomass and the inability to achieve a commitment to cooperation with local power, a decisive strategic partner in cases where there is a need to replace owners. The successive extension of deadlines for land-cleaning is insufficient, when insufficient is also the amount that is transferred to municipalities to meet the required work. And because he focused his intervention essentially on the means to combat, the question we want to put to him concerns what we consider to be the devaluement by the PSD of the central issue with regard to fires, i.e. prevention. Not on purpose, I am reminding myself of the draft law with which the NAP intended to confer an exceptional situation of support to individuals, meetings of parish and municipalities for cleaning forest biomass in this context of the epidemic, which was plunged by the PSD. It seems to us, Mr President, that in this matter the PSD behaves like that inventory professional who is concerned only with knowing the goods at his disposal, without worrying about their use and the usefulness that can be drawn from them. It is that summarizing the success of the fight against fires to the available means is not even to understand the problem that we have in our hands. What we want to ask you is whether or not the PSD recognises that we need to make a firm commitment to prevention throughout the year and not only on this occasion, in particular by giving conditions to owners and authorities. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u72	You have the floor to answer, Mr Duarte Marques.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u73	Mr President, I give the floor to Mr Dias — or I return the ball in this case — because part of what he says is true: who has ruled for so many years will also have their responsibilities in models that have gone well and in models that have gone wrong. But I would like to remind the honourable Member that it was in full government of the management that the CFP, because it was committed to a date of government commitments with the Socialist Party, did not vote in accordance with what its traditions were and with what comes here today in the forest package. [[Protests from PCP MP João Dias.]] That is why, Mr President, you also have your responsibilities! With regard to the air carrier, I must say that you do not like companies. PSD likes companies and supports companies. But see that in this case it is true: it was the PSD that extinguished the airline company, but the PSD did not extinguish the air media, they passed on to Civil Protection. And it was the government that supported you to let the air resources go. You didn't pay for your maintenance, you locked them in hangars, you didn't get them back. And let us know that now, for three or four years, there has not even been a rescue service in continental territory if there is an accident. [[PSD applause.]] It was the gentlemen who put six helicopters in the hangar, and now, to rent other equal ones, we paid. But, Mr President, I also tell you that an important concern of the CFP should be the operators of the emergency rooms of the CDOS ( Distributive Relief Operations Commands ), because the Government says that it has already concluded contracts, that it has already dealt with the issue of its precariousness, however these professionals continue to be treated as mere telephonists, when they are essential for the answers we want to give day by day. Mr André Silva of the NAP, I must tell you that I have doubts that I have heard all of my speech because I said something very clear: there is no fight against fires without a clear change of landscape, without a fundamental, structural change of national territory. But for that reason, because it takes years and because the choices made were more ideological than realistic, we need to keep our feet firm in the fight against fires. And that is why we believe that air resources, such as firefighters, such as tracking machines, are fundamental elements in the fight against fires.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u74	Sir, your time is up.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u75	Finally, Mr President, telling Mr Silva that the PSD knows that the cleaning of the forest and the ordination of the territory is not by decree, they are made with people, with the forest producers, with the authorities, with the owners. They are not in the midst of an ideological debate, full of dogmas and prejudices, as is the case with some benches in this Parliament. May it be a year free of fire, in good time, to help the firemen, and if it rains so much better. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u76	For a political statement, I now give the floor to Mrs Isabel Pires of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u77	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Portugal has made an important path in combating the pandemic, especially in relation to the fundamental role that the National Health Service has and has. And we know now, more than in the past, that it is the SNS that protects us. After a tough health battle, which must continue with the strengthening of the National Health Service, the time of defination brings great challenges. And some of them were expectable and should have been taken care of. The most recent numbers of pandemic developments in the Lisbon Metropolitan Area are worrying: in recent days, 9 in every 10 cases of new infections are in the Great Lisbon. And there are two reasons why these numbers can be explained, which are the resumption of the normality of industrial activity and the overcrowding in public transport, particularly in rail. More than 120 cases identified in the last few days in Azambuja, in the industrial centre hosting Sonae Distribution or Aviproto, indicate risks for which we had already warned: the return to normal work should have been closely accompanied by health authorities and the Labour Conditions Authority ( ACT ) and should have ensured effective measures to protect workers' health.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u78	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u79	Despite all indications from DGS ( Directorate-General for Health ), we are well aware that each company actually adopts procedures that it considers appropriate to the need to re-produce at the same previous levels in order to respond to the sharp breakdowns of the economy in the last two months. But this, without more, is a recipe for problems. Return to work must be done with adequate safety and hygiene conditions, which must be guaranteed by companies themselves. Work hours should also be equationd and rethinked so as to allow less agglomeration of people in the same place. It is the absence of these actions that also helps explain the « complex situation » identified in the Great Lisbon. If we combine to this the conditions in which people have to move, daily, to the workplaces, we realize that the problems are evolving. During the state of emergency, the Government established privileges with regard to public transport, in particular the obligation of cleaning actions consistent with the recommendations established by the Ministry of Health or, then, the reduction of the maximum number of passengers per transport. These measures were important, but at the time they did not all go well, since the abolition of the supply of certain means of transport or the reduction of the number of train trains led to unacceptable situations of non-compliance with the physical distance required between users during the emergency period. Therefore, in times of defination, one of the greatest challenges is, undoubtedly, the way in which public transport is organized, in order to ensure the mobility of the population in safety. Moreover, these concerns have been put by us throughout this period with the government, either through written or directly questions, in hearings with the Ministers of Protection. Despite permanent announcements, there are problems that have the utmost urgency to resolve. Thousands of people are moving daily in the Lisbon Metropolitan Area. If there were problems identified on the Sintra Line and on the Azambuja Line during the state of emergency they have intensified in recent days, since the defination began. And we have repeatedly warned the government about this. We have warned of the need to organize the reopening of the economy very well because this would necessarily have consequences for mobility. And that involved, ladies and gentlemen. Members, who, before that reopening, had ensured sufficient safety conditions and carriages to meet mobility needs. That is why, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have already introduced a draft resolution with solutions that must be implemented as soon as possible. It is necessary to ensure immediately that all existing capacity is placed on the most overcrowded lines, such as those of Azambuja and Sintra. On the other hand, it is also necessary to ensure that, immediately, the Government and the transport authorities share additional options in the same routes, in order to ensure that there is no overcrowding of carriages. along this pandemic, and from here on forward, let's realize that we're not, in fact, all on the same boat. There are economic and social conditions that make the effects of the crisis more penalizing for those who depend on their wages, and we know that they are still low in Portugal. And there are conditions that make everyone dependent on public transport more at risk — which should not happen — when what should be being done is to guarantee all safety and mobility conditions for all people. Therefore, this phase of defination, which is important, cannot serve to accentuate social inequalities and poor working conditions. On the contrary, it is necessary to leave no one behind and work so that everyone and everyone can be sure of being able to resume their lives. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u80	You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u81	Mr President, Mrs Isabel Pires, really brings us a subject of great importance. But I never have enough to be surprised and to have the idea that the Left Block thinks that money is born in the trees or that wealth is of spontaneous generation. in this issue of urban and suburban transport—even with recent cases known—you make a diagnosis, which I even admit to being real, but then bring as solutions the investment in more compositions, alternatives of road transport in parallel with the railways, which are more time consuming, more polluting and certainly more expensive. The question that I am asking is why you are not, for these situations, the solutions that are actually faster to apply, less polluting and cheaper, as it would, in particular, be what you have talked about a lot of flight, which is the shift of hours, the promotion of telework and other non-present forms of service delivery, which ultimately would fall within the generic designation of flexible work. It doesn't happen to you! The question that I would like to leave then is the following: why would these things, which would respect the money and wealth of taxpayers, more appropriate to make these investments, never happen to the Left Block when facing the problems?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u82	You now have the floor to ask for clarifications, Mr Carlos Silva, from the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u83	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Isabel Pires, we accompany your concern. It is even with great concern that the PSD is seeing this phase of defination. Moreover, today, the Director-General of Health has given us a statement that has left me in a state of mind, saying that public transport can see its stronger cadence so that it is possible to maintain the social distance required within it. It's remarkable! This is from those who do not know the state in which the public transport system is located in the Great Lisbon area. Already before the COVID-19 public transport was broken down, there were problems, which we discussed several times here. at this moment, it is true that things are bad, they are really bad, but it happens that, as a note from the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon, only 20 % of social passes have been acquired. Imagine within a month, when the activity reopens once for all, what it will be! The CP was at the point of creating alternative, bus transport. So there is an effort on the part of the government that we record and greet. However, we believe that the government is being unwise in this matter, because it does not give us guarantees of good investment. Consider, for example, that it was about the COVID-19 pandemic that the Government came to relaunch the project of the Lisbon subway circular line as the panacea for all mobility problems, a circular line that does not take up the consensus of Parliament, of civil society. And you did it, of course, with lies on the part of Mr. Minister, which we have recorded. We also have the example of the Alentejo Line, the biggest investment of the century: they will make a single-way train line, only for goods, which is not even for passengers. Alentejo's still watching the trains pass! We still have the example of the ships: they did a gas boat contest, but they discovered that there were no gas boats for the Tagus and then they made an electric boat contest, which takes a while to leave the office. Therefore, this Government does not offer us great guarantees in the resolution of this problem in terms of transport. It is pushing the country towards a severe recklessness, and this is very dangerous from the point of view of public health. Mrs. Deputy, I would leave you a question,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u84	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u85	I will finish, Mr. President. Madam Member, I would ask you if you do not see a forcing of the Left Block in order to appeal to the Government to make a serious but very serious investment in maintaining what is left, to see if we solve the serious problem that we have in front of public transport. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u86	You now have the floor to ask for clarification, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u87	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are obviously following the concern that the Left Block brings us here today. But I remember that, from the very first moment that we started talking about the end of the state of emergency and the defination that the NAP has warned of the need for such decisions, they should have on the basis of prevention and health assurance criteria for our fellow citizens and not only purely economical criteria or concerns about labour issues. This is a fact that we cannot, of course, ignore. We warned about the need not to burn steps and the probability of infection is still too high to start dropping restrictions. We also warned about the need for an extensive set of complementary measures to ensure that this defination was made with fewer risks, which included, from the outset, creating conditions for all citizens to have access to individual protective equipment and the massive realization of disease screening and serological tests to the population up to the last link of the chain, thus acting in anticipation and not in reaction. Unfortunately, these NAP alerts did not take effect and what we had was an option of reopening the fast economy, beaten down until, without such additional measures had been taken, avoiding what is, today, a concern at the focus that is now being signaled. The case of public transport is a good demonstration that the government has fallen short of what was required of it. We have verified that, in the defination, « sardines in cana» was the common denominator of the buses that emerge, for example, from Loures to Lisbon, from boats from the south margin to Lisbon, from the interregional train of Santarém or from the urban trains of the Sintra Lines, Azambuja or Cascais. To these populations the government has only been able to say that it could not strengthen the supply of transport, as if the increase was a bit superfluous, when, on the other hand, it is playing with the circular metro line and somehow wanting to be very innovative with what should be an effective bet on strengthening public transport, and not only the metropolitan area...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u88	Mrs. Member, your time is up.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u89	I conclude now, Mr President. As I said, the Government should strengthen public transport, not only in the metropolitan area, thus ensuring a better quality of life for citizens. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, and in view of all these shortcomings, I would like to know whether the Left Block is also essential not only to ensure the strengthening of these means, but also to carry out serological tests and to ensure greater reconciliation of shifts and also of other working tools.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u90	You have the floor to answer, Mrs. Isabel Pires.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u91	Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to thank you for your questions. Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, I believe that you have not been fully aware of all the intervention I have made and of the two proposals I have put forward, because in fact, it is not just a matter of offering complementary options, but of putting immediately all the capacity of the CP currently existing to serve the overcrowded lines. Of course, all the work subjects referred to are part of a reflection to which the Left Block is not outside — we have done so for several years. This reflection, in the context we are currently living in, will certainly be continued on our part, but what is of immediate interest at the moment is the immediate strengthening of public transport. Turning to the questions put by Mr Carlos Silva of the PSD, it is true that strengthening public transport is important, but it is also true that today's problems are not. The Left Block and other parties have defended proposals for solving these problems for many years and I remember that many of them have been successively plunged by the Social Democratic Party and also by the CDS. Since you spoke at CP, I must say that this is a fundamental company, and although it has not been privatized. At the right will, it would have been privatized. We know that what is being done is clearly not enough, so we need to have immediate urgent responses to the situation. That is why it points to the draft resolution of the Left Block, which has already entered. It remains to be seen whether the PSD will actually follow the concerns and solutions that are presented. Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, of the PAN, the Left Block has also repeatedly raised the issue she has addressed. I recall a meeting that we had with the Minister of Infrastructure exactly on the CP, a few days before the state of emergency was lifted, so at the beginning of the phase of defination, in which one of the issues we put was precisely this: which is the exact plan for the resumption of economic life and for the resumption of social life, in which mobility is an absolutely essential pillar. Since then we say that the answers are very few and that...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u92	Madam Member, I call your attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u93	I will finish, Mr. President. Madam Member, since then we have said that the answers are very few and that the great difficulty has to do with the problems that have existed before. Already before and during the state of emergency, certain train lines in the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon were overcrowded. That was already a problem. Therefore, what matters at this time is that immediate, urgent responses are given, although they do not resolve the underlying problem. For this too, the Left Block has presented several proposals for public investment in the railway to respond, in whole and in all, to the various challenges of rail mobility. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u94	You have the floor, for a request for clarification, Mr José Luís Ferreira, of the Greens Ecological Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u95	Mr President, Mrs Isabel Pires, I begin by telling you that we generally share the concerns you expressed in your speech on public transport, particularly the references you made to the Sintra and Azambuja Lines — these are serious problems that require immediate responses too — and to the suppression and disorganization of schedules that occurred during this pandemic, which means, in fact, that not everyone is on the same train, because there are some who are at greater risk than others. We know that public transport is of great importance not only from the point of view of the right to mobility of populations but also from the point of view of reducing greenhouse gas emissions and combating climate change. The truth is, in terms of mobility, we continue to live in an absolutely unsustainable society, not only with regard to environmental consequences, but also with regard to the quality of life of citizens and the preservation of people's health itself. That is why the Greens have come to stress the need for a good network of collective transport and the creation of more and better conditions for the use of other active and soft modes of transport, such as the use of bicycles. Mrs Isabel Pires, I believe you will agree with me that, before this health crisis, we have embarked on a very interesting path with regard to the use of public transport - perhaps it has been one of the most important measures in recent decades with regard to greenhouse gas emissions and the fight against climate change. Of course, I am referring to the steps taken at the level of social passes and the substantial increase of public transport users that this measure has taken. But we now have a great concern: if there is not a strong investment on the supply side — in fact, the honourable Member said that, during the state of emergency, this offer has even decreased — we put everything down and even discredit our own public policies, because we are basically pushing people again for the use of individual transport, when we were initially advising people to use public transport.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u96	Sir, I call your attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u97	I will finish, Mr. President. If we do not now invest in supply, basically, what we are doing is discrediting these public policies and contradicting all the assumptions that a sustainable transport policy must have. I would like to ask you, Mrs Deputies, if you share the concern that there is now no investment on the supply side, we will lose everything.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u98	You have the floor, for a request for clarification, Mr Ricardo Leon of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u99	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the Left Block for bringing this matter to debate. This is a matter which has also been of concern to the PS Parliamentary Group, which has already addressed a legislative question to the Government to note these concerns, and which has met with some insistence with the Lisbon Metropolitan Area, which, as we know, is also the metropolitan authority of transport. We have somehow felt these concerns, so we share them, particularly with regard to public transport and the reduction of their supply, particularly at this difficult time. But I believe that the Left Block will agree that, as far as public transport is concerned, this particular situation today is not due to the failure or absence of the implementation of measures by the Government or even the Assembly of the Republic. This reduction in the supply of public transport is another consequence of this pandemic crisis. During this period transport operators generally, but in particular in the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon, had a reduction in revenue in the order of 95 %, particularly in the sale of single tickets, although the government and the municipal chambers continued to comply with their tranches. This enormous reduction in revenue is creating enormous treasury difficulties, which no one should be indifferent to. But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Isabel Pires, we agreed that it was the years of total de-investment in transport, both road, rail and sea, during the previous PSD and CDS government that led people to abandon the use of public transport. It was the PS government, the majority of the political parties represented in this Assembly of the Republic, the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon and its respective chamber presidents who, with the creation and empowerment of the PART (Tax Reduction Support Programme in Public Transport ), in particular in the Metropolitan Areas of Lisbon and Porto – it is always important to remember that the PSD voted against —, allowed people to believe again in public transport and its use.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u100	Mr. Deputy, thank you for finishing.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u101	I would therefore ask you whether or not you think we have better conditions today to respond to this lack of public transport, which is due to the breakdown of revenue due to this pandemic crisis. For the PS Parliamentary Group and for the PS Government, the priority has always been the same: more and better public transport. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u102	You have the floor, for a request for clarification, Mr Bruno Dias, of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u103	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Isabel Pires, since the beginning of the outbreak of the epidemic that the PCP had been warning and confronting political leaders about the absolute need not to allow the response to the pandemic in public transport itself to become a factor of worsening problems and threats to populations, to transport users and, of course, to transport workers. The evidence confirms the urgent and worrying situation in rail transport, which has already been mentioned, but the problem goes far beyond the railway sector. In fact, it dates back to the period prior to defination. The problems began to arise—and we began to warn—before the defination, with such cuts in supply and such lack of response to the protection and defense of public health in this matter. They say we're all on the same boat. This may be true, but it will be true for the worst reasons in the Transtejo and the Soflusa, because we all go on the same boat, but we should have more boats to meet DGS guidelines — more boats, more trains, more buses. We have a situation that cannot be silenced and that the honourable Members. Members have been unaware so far: there is a lack of transport for people, while there are transport workers in layoffs, cuts in wages and attacks on their rights. Those workers who are in layoff are needed! What's needed is not layoff, it's more transport! That is a matter that we keep pointing out. The epidemic crisis, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it doesn't justify everything. Such a small virus can't have such wide backs. Even last week, in the Health Committee, we asked the Minister of Health about the public health and safety conditions in this area. Moreover, on that same day, DGS Guideline No 27 / 2020, specifically on public transport, came out. The question that arises, with the private sectors of collective transport, is to demand that this worthless and unacceptable use be stopped, this attack on the rights of workers and users, using this pandemic as a pretext. It's enough for bad enough. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u104	You have the floor, for a request for clarification, Mr. João Gonçalves Pereira, of the CDS.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u105	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Isabel Pires, before addressing you, I began by commenting that, whoever hears Mr Bruno Dias, it seems that it was not the same party, the Communist Party, which, precisely in the last four years, has supported and supported the government! [[Protests by PCP MP Bruno Dias.]] This problem of public transport has already existed in the last four years and has not improved, it has worsened! It's good to be aware of that. With regard to the speech of Mrs Isabel Pires, we welcome her. We have the same concern about the overcrowding of public transport. The government is not being able to respond to this time of demand. There is a worrying situation with the number of infected people, who have been growing in the Lisbon region, and the problem is not only in the Sintra or Azambuja Lines ; the problem is in all collective transports, in all public transport. Thousands and thousands of Portuguese use these same public transport every day. It is good to be serious in this debate and to say that the Portuguese who use these public transports are at risk every day, because it is not possible to guarantee such social distance necessary not to be attacked by such a virus, which, as Mr President said recently, has no far-reaching backs. I'd say the virus even has wide backs, because it can reach a lot of people! As the reopening is being done, as we have more people coming back and leaving the telework, we will have more and more people circulating in public transport. That's for sure! We can adjust the schedules, it is true, but that is not enough, until we can't get much more public transport from one day to the next. We didn't have them anymore! How are we gonna get them now? Oh, my God! It is also true that we all, of course, argue that there should be less use of individual transport, that we should go to soft modes of mobility, for bicycles and all that.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u106	Mr. Deputies, I would like to draw your attention to your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u107	I will finish, Mr. President. We now live an exceptional period, therefore, temporarily in some way, until conditions should be created to facilitate the use of individual transport. We should do so on a temporary basis. [[ENP and PCP MP Bruno Dias protests.]] In conclusion, I just wanted to say the following: I find it strange that the Left Block, which now appears with this concern, has accompanied the Socialist Party in the City Hall of Lisbon on the reopening of the EMEL (Municipal Mobility and Parking Company of Lisbon) on the supervision and collection of individual transport in Lisbon.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u108	You now have the floor to Mrs Isabel Pires to answer all the questions raised.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u109	Mr President, I would like to thank the honourable Members who have asked questions, Mr President. Deputies José Luís Ferreira, Ricardo Leon, Bruno Dias and João Gonçalves Pereira. Mr. José Luís Ferreira, it is true that the issue of public investment and its priorities is absolutely essential right now. In fact, these were the discussions that, over the past four years, and before them, some parties, in this Assembly of the Republic, have had exactly for strengthening national railway plans that effectively respond not only to the needs of the population, but also to the problems arising from climate change. So we have a project, which has already entered this Parliament, about how, in a time of pandemic, we can respond through new forms of mobility and how we can expedite this very, precisely because we also have these concerns and because, above all, as I said, it is important that the path started before the pandemic, with the enlargement of the passes, with the PART, etc. , don't have any abrupt cuts. But, above all, it is necessary to increase the offer. Turning to Mr Ricardo Leon, I believe that we do not agree on an essential point: Mr, at a certain point, said that the reduction in supply is the result of the crisis, with the argument of revenue. This is what divides us, the different way we look at the paradigm of mobility and public transport. In fact, at the time we questioned the government about how it was possible, exactly in an emergency state, to reduce the supply to people who had to move to their workplace or, for example, to health services. It is that we are saying that those who went out to continue working are our heroes, but at the same time, they have been reduced the offer of public transport, when these are the people who most need them. So we need to realize that, perhaps, we still have very different paradigms in the way we look at mobility, transport. And, yes, it is necessary to call the privates to this debate too. This is also not being done by the government, and there is a need for this to happen. Why? Because we are still based on a model in which private people have an essential role in the way the PART works, for example. That is why what is being designed today at the level of mobility also calls on those who have it to be responsible, which is not only the public sector at the moment, but also the private sector. Indeed, there were cases in several companies, and the Left Block also questioned the government about it. The truth is that there has been no response from the government, nor from anyone, about when these situations will end and when, once and for all, this reinforcement is turned upon, which is absolutely essential at this stage. Mr João Gonçalves Pereira, I believe that the honourable Member has just said nothing about the demands and concerns we have at the moment and not about the project.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u110	I spoke, I spoke!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u111	About EMEL!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u112	It's because, in fact, we have clearly different positions...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u113	Madam Member, I would like to draw your attention to your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u114	I will finish, Mr. President. Mr João Gonçalves Pereira, as I was saying, we have clearly very different positions in the way we look at public transport and mobility. The challenge we have left in this debate is that our draft resolution can indeed be approved, which gives immediate and urgent response to the problems that exist at present. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u115	Mr João Dias, from the CFP, has the floor for a political statement.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u116	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to extend a special greeting to the thousands of small and medium-sized farmers, producers and fishermen who continue to produce, facing difficulties aggravated by a situation that is liquidating their productive capacity. These, yes, they need someone to defend them. They are also essential. The impact of the epidemic outbreak on the country's economic and social life is undeniable. A response is needed, both in the prevention of health and also in the clinical context. At the same time, however, it is necessary to meet the requirements to address the consequences of economic activity, reduction of production and social problems associated with them, compounded by the use of large economic groups to, the pretext of the epidemic, increase exploitation, liquidate rights and guarantee their profits. We do not underestimate the complexities that the current public health situation triggers. However, the fact is that the Government's response is clearly marked by submission to the European Union's taxes and by criteria and policy options to which the agricultural sector does not escape. These are policies that have led to the impoverishment of thousands of small farmers, who have already faced a situation of increasing difficulties in the flow of their products and in the breakdown of prices, mainly dictated by the distribution chain. Now, thousands of small and medium-sized farms were, one day to the next, without any channel of flow. We must not forget, ladies and gentlemen, that this type of farmers, farmers and farmers, and even fishermen, had on local markets, in the direct sale and restoration of their products as the main source of marketing. Not selling, farmers do not get income and the situation has been the accumulation of losses that are not compatible with small and medium-sized farmers. The measures announced so far by the Government for agriculture and livestock production are insufficient. Aids are few and when they come it's too late. They are few and are not reaching the most affected farmers, which are the small and medium-sized farmers and the family farmers. And they are not coming because the Government is based on the wrong principle that, as the Minister of Agriculture announced here yesterday in the Assembly of the Republic, « there was nothing missing in the food supply chain ». It is not only wrong to say this as evidence also that the government does not know the problems, which are many, particularly for small and medium-sized agriculture. And who part of the wrong principles gets to the wrong conclusions and takes the wrong measures. Let the producers and farmers, who do not feel confident to move forward to the next campaign for lack of guarantees of flow and fair prices for production; let the producers of indigenous breeds, wine producers, milk producers, among many others, see prices falling every day and now see themselves in a difficult situation and without support. Yes, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, it must be noted that if farmers sell products at fair prices they will not need support. What farmers need is to have those who buy their products at fair prices. This is done by intervention measures in the markets, as proposed by the CFP, and which the Government refuses. It is done with withdrawal of production, naturally involving cooperatives and other structures on the ground. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At great cost, the government announces measures — measures for the same as usual. We are proud that the Minister for Agriculture, still in March, referred to the credit lines, which already had 68 applications, worth EUR 31 million. Strangely enough, this is the same number that remained until the Third State Emergency Report, which results in an average value per application of €455 000. This is well evidence that the government's aid is for the large agribusiness, when, as the CFP defends, it should be for the small and medium-sized farmers, who need it. The Government recently announced an additional EUR 85 million transferred from the second to the first pillar of the next Community Support Framework 2021 - 2027, which must still be authorised by Brussels. Yesterday in the Committee on Agriculture, the Minister was unable to give assurances that the Government's proposals would be adopted. What if they don't? And if they do, when will they be? These are the guarantees that must be taken. To say that the known negotiations for the reform of the CAP were on a path to reducing money... Where is solidarity? Solidarity is not there. For this reason, many now value national production. They are the same ones who gave it to the interests of the great agricultural powers of the European Union. Now, many have also discovered the importance of local markets and short circuits. They are the same ones who have shut them down to give way to the large distribution and delivered the national market to the so-called "competitive and wild" market of the European Union. And with this we saw a complete destruction of many sectors, as is the case with cereals. This will be the year with the lowest ever wheat production in Portugal. When self-supplying in many of the cereals is terrifying, let us remember that of wheat and that of corn. There is, therefore, a question to be asked, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, how are we going to guarantee producers a fair price to production that leads them to produce the cereals we need so much? That is why the CFP has presented measures that respond to current and known problems in the agricultural and national livestock sector: measures to support costs with electricity; measures to increase the small agriculture regime from €600 to €1250 per farmer; measures to promote flow; measures to respond to the effects of the COVID-19 outbreak on the wine sector; measures with a temporary contingency regime for networks of secondary fuel management bands. Finally, this is a set of measures that respond to the needs of the small and medium-sized farming and livestock population. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have heard that the epidemic has changed everything. For in agriculture problems are old and difficulties are old. The options of each and every other are old. Small and medium-sized agriculture, family farmers and fishermen can count on the CFP. We've always been here and we'll always be here to defend them. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u117	Seven Members have written to ask questions. How do you intend to respond, Mr. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u118	One by one, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u119	So you have the floor, first of all, to ask for clarification, Mr André Ventura, of the Arrival. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u120	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in good time the debate brought us all a matter of concern. The CFP has repeatedly brought here not only the issue of agriculture, but also the issue of the rural world. However, it was important to know whether the Portuguese Communist Party would be able to do a little more programmatic challenges and call the Socialist Party and the Government to reason on these matters. Mr Deputies, for example, on 21 May, the Council of Ministers approved a number of diplomas on forests and no one in the sector was heard. Will the Communist Party draw attention to this by the government that has supported the past four years? We do not yet know whether or not we will have to return money from the common agricultural policy, but there is one thing we know: that, at the end of five years, the Portugal 2020 programme has not yet implemented 50 % of the funds. Will you or will you not draw the Socialist Party's attention to this matter? Finally, the Communist Party has said — and well — that European participations cannot be brought forward, that fiscal incentives are needed, and above all that compensation is needed for demand breaks, income breaks and production breaks. There is only one question the Portuguese want to know: is the Communist Party willing to demand this from the Socialist Party already in this supplementary budget? And is the Communist Party willing, if these claims are not accepted, to vote against the supplementary budget submitted by the Government of the Socialist Party? If not, we will have more of the same: criticisms of how agricultural policy has been managed, but when the time comes it gives the Socialist Party a hand in the budgets that have left Portuguese agriculture behind in the European framework.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u121	To reply, Mr João Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u122	Mr President, the CFP has to say that what moves us in relation to the problems of farmers is clear. The CFP understands that what is missing is to listen to farmers. We understand and understand that there are those who hear the big farmers, the farmers in the agribusiness. We have heard the small and medium-sized farmers, the family farmers and their interests. That's what moves us. The CFP identifies and knows the reality of farmers. The PCP knows its difficulties, and when identifying these difficulties, it presents solutions. But the CFP does something different from all others, which is to accompany this struggle of workers, of the people, with them. He makes them his fight and does not abandon his proposals. So we have well identified what needs to be done. We have well identified the 95% of national farmers who need well-responsive, direct and concrete answers to their difficulties, in particular what has to do with fair prices for production and flow. We therefore put forward proposals for a guarantee of discharge. It is essential that these guarantees be created. It is essential that the measures be supported and that they be discretionary for small and medium-sized agriculture. Especially with regard to the costs of production, with green electricity, the CFP brought to this House a proposal that would respond to what are the increasing difficulties with the costs of energy and we hope to have the follow-up of the other political forces in the adoption of this measure. in this sense, the PCP does not abdicate its constant struggle to defend the interests of small and medium-sized agriculture. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u123	To put questions, you have the floor of Mrs Emília Cerqueira.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u124	Mr President, Mr João Dias, I am delighted to see that it brought this issue to debate. In fact, a hearing took place yesterday by the Minister of Agriculture, in which the PSD drew attention to these problems, but I did not see the CFP as concerned or, at least, be so vehemently in the complaint. We draw attention to the fact that until today the Ministry of Agriculture has placed zero euros for the whole sector. We only have credits, CAP advances, and these are the solutions. Although the situation had already come before the pandemic state, it now ends up being sometimes excused for the incompetence it had already come from behind. This situation has just been exposed to it even more — we agree, Mr President. We, PSD, have come to draw attention to the problem of supply chains for direct aid to small farmers, small livestock producers, indigenous breeds, red fruits, wine sector. It is for all these sectors that PSD has been constantly drawing attention. Mr President, I would like to deal with one or two questions. You are talking only about small agriculture, short chains, which are, in fact, very fashionable. But he also knows that small producers and short chains are far from making the productive fabric of national agriculture. In fact, food sovereignty and short chains are two incompatible ideas, because without large production and agriculture and livestock production there is no food sovereignty possible. So, the CFP will insist on attacking production and our production agriculture in a sustainable way, how, in fact, has it been its panagio, and also support for this sector so fundamental or will it continue to insist, only and only, on short chains? It is that, although important, agriculture cannot be reduced to that. Sir, I leave a note. The solution will never be priced, as Mr President wants; the solution will go through production and distribution aid and fair prices.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u125	Madam Member, I call your attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u126	Are you willing, Mr President, to participate in the solution for fair prices? Prices Tabled is not! That's only in the old Soviet Union! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u127	To reply, Mr João Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u128	Mr President, Mrs Emília Cerqueira, I would like to say that she does not know the reality of the country. [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u129	When you understand that it is only the great agribusiness that has the ability to guarantee food sovereignty is absolutely wrong. There is one truth we know: 10 % of large farmers receive 80% of the aid from the common agricultural policy. That is the truth and that is what you do not want to change and are not concerned about changing, and therefore do not fight. When the PCP presents ceilings and modulations for aid, in the first pillar of the CAP, you do not move, do not move to fight for them. You don't want, you don't care, because you have the pain of the big agribusiness. It's natural and we understand that. [[Protests by PSD Member Emilia Cerqueira.]] His ignorance is absolute. The honourable Member is not aware of the extent to which the fairs absorb national production. He says they're a fashion, but fashion passes, Mrs. Member... [[Protests by PSD Member Emilia Cerqueira.]] The CFP has always defended national production, the CFP has always been on the side of national production and has guarded it. It was unnecessary to have a situation of public disease such as that we are living to prove the need for national production and what it is relevant to sovereignty and food security. in this sense, there is a country that you don't know. I'm sorry, but it's a country that has the ability to produce and feed our population satisfactorily. How many and how many thousands of producers with 30 sheep, 50 goats or 50 ha produce and manage to feed short commercial circuits, which, for you, is new, but which we have defended for many years now! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u130	To request clarification, Mr Ricardo Vicente has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u131	Mr President, Mr João Dias, it is good to know that the CFP also accompanies the concern of the Block in the formulation of fair prices at the level of the producer and consumer and that it has already put forward proposals for this purpose. Portuguese agriculture needs unpublished public policies, because some of the biggest challenges we have today have never repeated in the past — this is the case with climate change. We have 10 years to reduce half of the emissions. In order to respond to this reality it is necessary to decarbonise agriculture and this is only possible if the transposition of the common agricultural policy into Portugal and the other Member States cease to finance companies and farms promoting monoculture. We need a diversified agriculture based on local varieties. This is also a condition for the country to gain food sovereignty and small farmers to value their production in short circuits and others. The Left Block presented a draft resolution proposing the end of the public financing of intensive and superintensive production systems, also proposing the design of an ecological transition programme leading to the transposition of the next Community support framework on the horizon of 2021 - 2027. No more than one hundred public money for the installation of intensive and superintensive crops—is our proposal. Is the PCP available to approve this project? It is true that, within the budget of the State, EUR 51,000 is planned to continue the national irrigation plan, which provides for the creation of more than 55 000 ha again in Portugal, of which 51 000 ha are intended for Alentejo, the Block proposed the prohibition of monoculture systems in areas benefiting from this investment and the CFP voted against the proposal, enabling the expansion of the irrigation to continue, even if it is for monoculture systems, which are always intensive or superintensive. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u132	To reply, Mr João Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u133	Mr President, Mr Ricardo Vicente, I thank you for your question. In fact, we have long appreciated and thanked the Bloc's concern about the formulation of fair prices at the level of production and which also has an effect on the value chain, particularly on the consumer's final price. The CFP has been fighting for these fair prices for products for years, and we know that this is essential for farmers to be confident and to continue to produce. The truth is that the reality often hides producers and farmers who, in order to maintain their activity, almost pay to produce. He referred to a reality that has to do with the intensive and superintensive production of olives, and we have always maintained the same line, i.e. the need for an agricultural model — I refer mainly to the water perimeter of Alqueva — of diversified production and not an intensive and superintensive agricultural model. There's a clarification that matters to do. He said that the CFP voted against a proposal in the State budget, but I would like to say that we do not evaluate the proposals that appear only for its title, we evaluate its content and scope, and that proposal would lead to situations such as those found in the orchards of the West and the vineyards of the Douro, where they were conditioned and limited to its production. The proposal of the Left Block, with good intentions, has a negative scope for certain productions. Therefore, the CFP cannot follow it. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u134	To request clarification, Mr. Santinho Pacheco has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u135	Mr President, Mr João Dias, the visibility and importance that the CFP is giving to agriculture has only one explanation: the government is doing its job well. [[PSD laughter.]] The CFP knows that this is the meaning of public opinion and the generality of farmers. from there only remain to the CFP this strategy of political wear through successive hearings, culminating in its political declaration today. There is a huge misunderstanding in how the CFP views the appreciation of family and rural agriculture in the territories of the mini-fund, the Beiras and the North of the country. The problem has nothing to do with programmes or financial support, the problem has to do with the lack of people, with the ageing of the population. This is the real problem of agriculture in the north-central part of the country. The interior needs a generational revolution, younger ones. How does the CFP respond to this challenge that is real, to this situation that we feel every day? The country has seen that, even with the COVID, agriculture has not stopped, resisted and ensured food supply. Is there a problem? Of course there are many problems! It is necessary to defend the most exporting sectors, wine, fruit and vegetables, and to extend the irrigation area and rural parcelation. But one cannot forget traditional production, the local economy, the short marketing chains — yes, sir, they do not play with this, because they are extremely important, such as cheeses, boregos, cabritos, and the creation of a special social security scheme for family farming. It is also necessary to look further at next decade's agriculture with a strategy that strengthens environmental, economic and social sustainability. Is the CFP willing to make that leap in the future? Or can he not get rid of his own ghosts that seem to pursue him, when he actually has a huge responsibility in the leap we need to take in our rural world? Do you not think that just blaming Europe and right-wing policies no longer convinces anyone, much less farmers? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u136	To reply, Mr João Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u137	Mr President, Mr Santinho Pacheco, in fact, what he expected from his intervention was precisely that Government resonance box,... [[PS laughter.]] ... in which the position is to announce measures, but then they do not respond to the needs. I recall that Mr Santinho Pacheco was present at the hearing that the CFP promoted the confederations of Portuguese farmers in which everyone was unanimous in saying that none of the measures announced by the Government is responding. What are the answers the government has on the table? Debt, i.e. credits and credit lines that do not differ from pre-COVID credit lines and moratoriums. Anyway, they're not help. Another measure has also been taken to use the future money of farmers, that is, the money they will need later, in the future, and without guarantees that they will then have this funding on the part of the European Union. They're going to use money now that it's going to take the next few years. This is what the government is offering. So we can't agree. As regards measures requiring intervention on the market, they do not do so. We must also admit, as you well know, that the food supply chain has undergone changes — and has undergone profound changes! — with the closure of the HORECA canal (hotel, restaurant and café), with the closure of the hotels, with the closure of the cafes, with the closure of the restaurants. We cannot say that the short supply chains, especially those of the indigenous races, have not changed, because they have undergone profound changes. The Minister, yesterday, came to try to throw sand into our eyes, saying that there was no change in supply chain, but there was, and the Portuguese were pushed into the big distribution. Indeed, the Portuguese did not lack food supplies, but were pushed into the large distribution. I am very sad to see that Mr Santinho Pacheco was pleased and pleased with this because it is the ruin of many producers and farmers in our country. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u138	For clarifications, Mrs. Cristina Rodrigues of the NAP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u139	Mr President, Mr João Dias, the issue of agriculture returns to plenary last week because the measures announced by the Government are still not sufficient. As for this, we agree with the PCP. We must make our agriculture more resilient and therefore the support announced is very short-term and, in addition to promoting debt, they do not solve the structural problem. We could begin precisely by public procurement, which can and should be the engine of sustainable development. It therefore seems to us that the amendment of the Public Contracts Code is a fundamental step in promoting the acquisition of national agri-food goods, increasing national production and ensuring the flow of products. There are thousands of meals that are served in public canteens, for example in schools, prisons or hospitals, which could be provided by national producers, preferably for those of greater proximity. Incentive measures for agriculture must take into account the specificities of each different type of producer. For example, a small farmer has a lot of difficulty in being able to compete with public purchases, since the amount of supply required is very high. So, once again, it is only to benefit the largest producers to the detriment of the smaller ones, who are precisely the ones who need it most. The Family Agriculture Statute needs to be more comprehensively regulated and the process itself needs to be simplified. We are also continuing below the European average in terms of organic production, because we continue not to promote this type of production. For the NAP, support for farmers is essential in order to ensure our food independence, but these support must be based on certain priorities, in particular support for those who need the most — family farming, small-scale, organic producers. I leave two questions to Mr João Dias. Do you agree that the criterion for the allocation of such support should be solely that of production and quantity or should the State include environmental criteria, such as, for example, positively discriminate against low-intensity food production modes in the use of pesticides or water? Do you think that the State should support the intensive livestock sector with public money?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u140	To reply, Mr João Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u141	Mr President, Mrs Cristina Rodrigues, in fact the NAP has presented some proposals accompanying those of the CFP. We understand that, but I want to remind you that we need to feed our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u142	Well said!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u143	We need to feed our country and it is good to consider that it is not good for the environment to import thousands and thousands of tons of maize and potatoes, nor is it not good for the environment to import thousands and thousands of tons of cereals, as we do. It is therefore necessary to support small agriculture and family farming. I have already told you, Mrs Deputies, that, if it were not the CNA (National Confederation of Agriculture) and the CCP bring to this House and to the country the concept of family farming and its defence, it has not yet seen in the light of the day the Family Agriculture Statute, which is very important but is empty, as the PS and the Government want. This Statute needs to be regulated and open to family farmers, but the government resists doing so. We have therefore tabled a draft law, which we hope, in view of what you have said, is accompanied by the NAP, with measures to promote the flow and to make public purchases, particularly for restaurants and canteens, acquiring at least 25 % of national production. And we cannot stop talking about the fight we have had for the increase of the small farming regime to more than € 850. In other words, when the scheme for small agriculture can be defined autonomously by each of the Member States — there are no European Union taxes here, the country can decide to support these farmers up to a limit of €1250 — it is the government itself that imposes the limit and does not want to increase beyond €850. So welcome to the defense of small agriculture and family farming! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u144	To make a request for clarification, Mrs Mariana Silva, of the Green Party, has the floor. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u145	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr João Dias, the honourable Member brings here one of the central problems of the current phase: the defence of national production and of small and medium sized agriculture and fisheries. At present, we are living moments of appreciation of agriculture and national production, but we do not forget the times when it was said that it was cheaper to import food produced elsewhere in the world than to produce them in Portugal, and even with the argument that it was in favour of the environment, let us understand! Today, we have heard about the valorization of short commercial circuits, after a few weeks have given here, in this House, the indication to cancel everything. And many have cancelled the markets, so necessary to ensure the flow of small farmers. They were right before time, The Greens, when they did the campaign « Produce and consume local», of which some have failed, but today they all realize that this is the paradigm that it is necessary to value, value and defend family and biological agriculture, the most friendly production modes of the environment, which allow the development of the local economy, along the path to sustainability. But for that, Mr President, it is necessary to support small and medium-sized agriculture. Without family farming what we will have is intensive production, it is massive use of pesticides, it is waste of water. With family farming, with traditional methods of cultivation, we will have occupation and appreciation of the territory, we will have quality production. I therefore ask you, Mr President, does not it seem to you that the Family Agriculture Statute could be the fundamental lever for this objective? What measures should be taken to promote family farming and, in particular, its Statute?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u146	To reply, Mr João Dias has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u147	Mr President, Mrs Mariana Silva, because it is true that the phrase brought here: many parties that have been talking about national production recently said that it was much cheaper to buy abroad, import. But we, PCP, besides defending national production, to prevent us from making so many imports, are also aware that it is the production of family agriculture and small agriculture that is environmentally sustainable, with quality products and safe products. But we want to share the concern that we were still concerned yesterday, after the regimental hearing of the Minister of Agriculture, when the Minister announced the review of the Family Agriculture Statute. Now, at a time when the Statute has not even come into effect, a Statute which has only 128 validated applications, which would be for thousands and thousands of farmers and which at this time has only been able to open its doors to 128 applications, reveals that there is no need to review but, yes, to regulate, as was the obligation of the Government. This is what has been determined, that is, its regulation and the creation of conditions so that more family farmers can access this Statute, creating conditions so that they can maintain their lives as agricultural workers, often even connected with other professions, allowing an increase in their family income. in this sense, the CFP will not follow the review of the Statute because, as a Statute, it is a hat and does not work unless it is properly regulated. That is why we continue to fight and demand the regulation of the Family Agriculture Statute. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u148	To put a question, you have the floor of Mrs Cecilia Meireles from the CDS. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u149	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to congratulate Mr John Dias on bringing the issue of agriculture, which I know is expensive to Parliament, but I must start by speaking about a fundamental difference. In fact, Mr President, you seem to think that in order to defend agriculture and farmers it is necessary to put farmers against each other, small against the big, medium against the small,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u150	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u151	...and the CDS thinks otherwise, it thinks that defending agriculture is to defend farmers, micro, small, medium and large. Yes, Mr President, if we want to talk about food sovereignty we have to talk about family agriculture, we have to talk about sustainable agriculture, we have to talk about small and medium-sized farmers and we also have to talk about large farmers. There is nothing wrong and contradictory about this, on the contrary, if we want agriculture as a competitive and strategic sector for Portugal, then we must know how to caress and support farmers of all dimensions. Secondly, I would like to leave you a question on which, I believe, we will agree. We have talked about support for agriculture and one of the questions to be answered in the coming of the Minister for Agriculture to Parliament was, after all, about the support already announced, exactly how many have already reached the companies and farmers, because what they tell us and what we know is that for now there have been very few. I would end by leaving here a challenge to the honourable Member. When the amending budget comes here, which is now called supplementary, the honourable Member will check and whether all the support that the Government and the Minister have announced are already, indeed, in the hands of farmers, the honourable Member votes in favour and enables it; if they are only advertisements and are not yet in the hands of farmers, the honourable Member, of course, will lead this amending budget — alongside the CDS, of course.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u152	To reply, Mr John Dias has the floor, with whom we have spent a part this afternoon and with great pleasure.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u153	It is true, Mr. President, I thank you. Thank you very much, Mrs Cecilia Meireles, for your question. There is no problem in admitting that we defend different interests. The PCP defends small and medium-sized farmers and the CDS defends the interests of large farmers and agribusiness. [[PCP applause.]] [[Protests from PSD MP João Moura.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u154	They should defend everyone's interests!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u155	But this is clear as water and I will give you an example. When the Minister announced these EUR 31 million for 68 applications, which gives a value of EUR 450 000 per application, of course, that the honourable Member is fully aware that it is not the small and medium-sized farmers who are accessing these applications, who are accessing them are the big farmers. And did the CDS criticize or raise its voice regarding these applications? Thirty million euros for 68 applications? Oh, my God! Well, but we can still go back to another situation. If it defends small and medium-sized agriculture, as it says, then we will see: when the CFP defended the increase in the small agricultural system to €1250 — and not having, the government, taxes of the European Union, because it has free hands to do whatever it wants to do with that value, it has autonomy to increase it, as I said earlier this afternoon, it just increased to €850 — the truth is that for 54 000 farmers (and we are not talking about 68 but, yes, 54 000 farmers! ) , which would have the same amount of EUR 30 million, there the CDS did not say that the small farming regime should increase to EUR 1250. So when it was to defend the small and medium-sized farmers, it did not, but when the large farmers are being helped, it shuts up and is certainly very pleased to appreciate these measures. We understand that you have this position, because the former CDS leader had the policy of forcing family farmers to pass a bill even through a branch of salsa, which led to the destruction of hundreds and hundreds of small farms. That is why she does not beat the boot with the partridge and the honourable Member came here to talk but it was just to look good, because, in fact, she does not defend the small or medium-sized agriculture, she defends the big agribusiness. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u156	For a political statement, I give the floor to Mr. João Gonçalves Pereira of the CDS-PP. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u157	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Policy without politics is no good for anyone but those who practice it and a moment like the one we live requires more of us than that. Not that times of crisis should suspend politics, or even disagreement, but because these are moments that show, or prove, the true value of a government, a party and also an opposition. It is a requirement that affects everyone equally, but that does not always receive equal answers. Today, it was one of those days. The unpredictability of the virus is the same as the judgment of a politician, who suffers the future of a precarious worker, who scares the small entrepreneur who does not know what he can count on. None of us, of course, know, but we have to do everything so that the Portuguese can know it as quickly and effectively as possible. The gravity of this uncertainty, as we know, affects everything. We saw this, with evidence, in the management of the TAP file. First, the Minister of Protection spoke in nationalization for two weeks later to admit the insolvency of the airline. Now it is the Prime Minister himself, who had defended the strategic plan signed between the government and the TAP, to come to publicly criticize the company area.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u158	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u159	Mr Prime Minister said today, and I quote, that he feels obliged to remind the TAP Executive Board of his legal duties of prudent management. Now, do you not understand the Prime Minister that these statements show a failure of the reversal of privatization he himself promoted? Today, the Prime Minister has been obliged to intervene publicly on the road map, but nothing has been said about the claims of several North American cities. Is the government in a position to clarify why the return of routes is greater in Lisbon than in the rest of the country? Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the CDS, which implemented privatization, fulfilling a memorandum of intervention signed by the Socialist Party, has a different view on the presence of the State in companies such as TAP. That's no secret to anyone. But what we've seen in the last few weeks has nothing to do with strategic visions, it has to do with the ladies. Government members are going to make politics with an area company that faces the biggest ever crisis in the sector. It has to do with the gentlemen. Government members, who come to Parliament to teach business management and negotiation lessons, are actively harming the value of TAP, using it as a political weapon of attack and placing jobs, investments and partnerships in question, these partnerships should be remembered that they were chosen by this government. For the CDS, in a crisis period for all airlines, the Government must do everything to avoid further harming the value of the company irrespective of their ideological or personal preferences, and so far the fact is this: nothing has been done. There are folklore shots, comments in the media and some disillusionment, but concrete policies, concrete decisions, concrete support, nothing. And why? Does the government even know how much TAP needs? You know, even in what terms the company will resume its activity? Do you know when you're going to announce your border reopening plan? Do you have, in particular, a proposal for a road map for TAP? If you know, Parliament has not been informed. More: is the government integrated in the talks between European States for the negotiation of air corridors, which benefit the country and tourism so much? If you are, Parliament has not been informed. It is good to remember that this strategic plan that the State has signed for the TAP has deserved the support of this government. A State that wants to be respected and to maintain a strong position in forthcoming negotiations must honour the commitments it has signed, because that is what it has to demand from its partners. We recognize that since privatization, the TAP has increased the number of workers, flights, planes and thus the value of the company itself. But if the next few years are necessarily more difficult and if the State wants to defend its position in the company area it must protect the partnerships with which it has committed itself and avoid situations of unnecessary uncertainty. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, not wanting to make this speech a monothematic political statement, there are also a number of points which seem critical to us. Today it is impossible to make promises about such a new normal picture that we will have, or at what speed it will emerge, but the effort for it to arrive as quickly as possible must be ours, must be of all. The return to normality is maintained as normal as possible, ensuring the conditions for our workers and entrepreneurs to continue their activity. This is a key piece to win that fight. Why did only 1700 of the EUR 6200 million in credit lines announced by the government arrive at the company's treasury? Why, so far, do we have more announced programs than has been implemented? I give another example: the ADAPTAR programme. The sum of money lost for microenterprises, EUR 50 million, has run out in just one week. No more funding is announced for this programme, but what is certain is that thousands and thousands of companies have been left out of it and have no support at all. Today, Finance has admitted that they are delaying the reimbursement of IRS to Portuguese. Is it possible that the government is making captivating in the support it has promised to overcome the crisis?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u160	Sir, I call your attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u161	Mr. President, I'll be done. Is it possible that the government, which promised that there would be no austerity, has been practicing it since the beginning of the pandemic? by the sights the capitulations continue, being now made to families and companies. [[Protests by PS MP Marina Gonçalves.]] I sincerely share the criticisms made by the Prime Minister on the slowness of European processes, for example.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u162	Mr President, I would like to thank you for finishing your political statement.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u163	I will finish, Mr. President. I also sincerely applaud the calls made by the Prime Minister to the European Union for him to be up to now. That is exactly what the government was expected to do by the Portuguese, but that is exactly what it did not do.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u164	Mr. Deputy, you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u165	The government has failed in the layoff, simplification, area company, credit to companies, deep-divided support and management partners. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u166	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I know from my own experience that it is uncomfortable to be interrupted, but I would ask you to make an effort to fulfil the defined times. Mr. João Gonçalves Pereira, used one minute more. The Bureau records six entries for clarification. How do you want to respond, honourable Member?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u167	I am replying three to three, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u168	You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u169	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr João Gonçalves Pereira, I greet you for bringing these issues to plenary, in particular that of the TAP, because unfortunately it will be on the agenda for more time and for the worst reasons. After a massive privatisation in 2015, a partial reversal in 2017, is preparing an intervention now, we do not even know if it will not be a nationalisation! — disastrous in 2020. It's disastrous for all of us, who are contributors. One month ago, it was said that there was enough counter-guarantee of the loan of EUR 350 million; over time it was already 800 million by the end of the year; after that it was EUR 1000 million and, yesterday and yesterday, the PS propaganda machine has already begun to say that, perhaps, it is EUR 1200 million. In the face of the economic and social crisis that we are going to experience, it is disastrous to consider that it will be a priority to make a capital injection of this dimension into the TAP. For the PS and for the Prime Minister, whatever there is, there must be a company flying in national colors. You're afraid of the worst. For PS and for José Luís Carneiro, the strategic interests of TAP must be aligned with those of the State. You're afraid of the worst. For the PS and its Parliamentary Group, in the face of the unexplained distribution of routes between Lisbon and Porto, the maximum importance was to require the presence of the non-executive president of the company for a hearing in the respective committee in order to explain TAP's trade policy. It's already the worst sight.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u170	The two were required to be present!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u171	So, Mr. João Gonçalves Pereira, the question I would like to ask you is the following: before the exponential curve of the investment estimate that you need TAP and before the exponential curve of the cacophony of the nonsense on the subject, is it not time to flatten these exponential curves too? We are already vaccinated against the damage that public companies, which the State does not know or should manage, cause the taxpayers in general and the only way to flatten this curve is really to confine the government's intervention so that no more money will be paid by taxpayers in the TAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u172	He wants to be funny and he can't!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u173	Mr Hugo Carvalho has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u174	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, ladies and gentlemen, Mr João Gonçalves Pereira, if we did the joint exercise of retreating four years we will go to a time when the left agreed better and in which privatization was reversed, but during that time there were many voices that told us that it was not so. Those voices were right. The Government has chosen to recover 50 % of the company, has chosen not to participate in its management, has chosen to have a private but also public company for public service throughout the country. By the way, the government was saying that the company's results were to criticize, but it maintained support for management, and it was defending a national public service, but it lives well with a company that increasingly reminds the « Lisbon Air Transports », as much as disregarding the port or as disregarding Faro, Madeira and the Azores. The question remains: has the government finally recovered the public control of the company, as you said, or has it not recovered?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u175	Don't!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u176	What's the question? You still don't get it?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u177	If so, is it supposed to be normal for the head of government to say that the proposal of the company controlling is not credible? Should that be considered normal?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u178	You privatize!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u179	Mr João Gonçalves Pereira, instead of the show of contradictions in the public space, in which the Prime Minister says that he will not let TAP fall but in which the Minister of Protection says that bankruptcy is already on the table, does not agree that the State would do a better service if it simply gave the company the answer that it had asked for two months ago?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u180	You privatize!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u181	In fact, what seems to be understood and credible is that there is no plan to recover TAP. While many countries in the European Union already have plans for their companies, the Portuguese Government remains silent about what is coming. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u182	Mr Carlos Pereira has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u183	Mr President, Mr João Gonçalves Pereira, although we are discussing a topic as relevant as that of TAP. It seems very important to me that this is done, but I must say, and I am sorry to do, that it contrasts with what happened four years ago, when the government of which your party was a party made a horse-kill privatization at 25. the time and end of the legislature. Well, we don't want that to happen in the country, much less with TAP. So I am glad that this debate takes place and I thank you for bringing this issue to Parliament. Mr President, there is something that people often say and that I believe may help to understand the position of the CDS : «He who has seen you and who sees you». Now, I have already seen the CDS very concerned—very worried, I would even say disproportionately concerned! — with the private management of the TAP and now I see it with this concern, but as « changed the winds », it begins to talk about strategic decisions of the TAP, such as the route plan and the effect that this has on the country's recovery and cohesion. So it's good for the CDS to clarify what you want with this company. As for the PS, the Government and the PS Parliamentary Group, I would like to say that we have very clear concerns. We have a concern about the future of the company, that there is no doubt; a concern about the company's workers, there is no doubt about this; a concern about the contribution of this company to tourism in Portugal, about the importance it has in creating wealth; a concern about this company for its role in the economic cohesion of the country, whether in the north, south or autonomous regions; and a concern about the economic and financial sustainability of this company. Now, what we need to know is what the CDS concerns about this company.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u184	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u185	I'm done now, Mr. President. The honourable Member spoke in models here and there, but I ask you: what does the CDS want with regard to this? The CDS which says and which informs the people of Portugal about what they want with respect to the TAP company. On the other hand, it is good for the CDS to also clarify — and with this ending — a unilateral decision of this company's private management on a matter as important today as a road map, which has a major impact on the country's recovery. What is the CDS's position on this? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u186	To reply, Mr João Gonçalves Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u187	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for the questions that have been put to me. I would like to remind Mr Cotrim de Figueiredo of the Liberal Initiative — and I know that he has this in mind — that it was a government in which the CDS had privatized the company itself. So we don't have any complex with private management. We are obviously concerned about taxpayers' money, which is a common concern, and I will already respond to the Socialist Party. What the CDS has said is very simple: there are several Member States that have supported their airlines and do - whether or not they are in the shareholder structure of these companies. Secondly, and replying to Mr. PSD, whom I also thank for the issues you have raised, there was something that was clear today in the attack that Mr. Prime Minister made to the TAP Executive Board, but what he did not say was whether or not he agreed with the Northern Autarchs, some of them even the Socialist Party. Finally, if Mr. Carlos Pereira wants the CDS to govern again, we are ready for that. We don't have a problem. [[Mr. BE Jorge Costa's laughs.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u188	Look at that!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u189	I realized that Mr. Carlos Pereira has so many doubts that he no longer remembers whether the Socialist Party has negotiated and signed, or not, the Memorandum of Troika! You have left in that same Memorandum the privatization of this company, like that of others, and therefore there is an absolute contradiction between the speech they make today and what they have done and signed five years ago. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u190	Mr President, I shall be very clear: we have a socialist government to manage the public accounts and our concern about the solution for the TAP is to know what it will cost the Portuguese taxpayers. That's the real reason and we're sorry... [[Protests by PS Member Carlos Pereira.]] Mr. Deputies, take it easy! Is he not indignant when the Minister who has custody in this area, whenever he opens his mouth to speak in the TAP, devalues the company, devalues the workers, devalues the shareholders? Oh, my God! And the shareholders are not just two, there are 700 workers who are shareholders of that same company. So, honourable Member, it was good to have another rigour. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[Protests by PS Member Carlos Pereira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u191	You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr José Luís Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u192	Mr President, Mr João Gonçalves Pereira, spoke of the TAP with all ownership and opportunity, especially at a time when a company with the size of the TAP defines its routes without knowing the Government's strategy for opening borders, which seems to me to be at least a joke.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u193	Just like that!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u194	The most serious is that this attitude shows well that the TAP has defined its strategy of resumption without taking into account the public interest and needs of the populations, fleeing any contribution to the resumption of the country's economic activity. Therefore, in our view, the plans of TAP are absolutely unacceptable. Concentrate most of the connections in Lisbon and drastically reduce flights between the two main airports in the country is to confuse the country with Lisbon. The country is not only Lisbon, neither near nor far, as you will certainly agree. by concentrating the big « cake» of the links from Lisbon, TAP is not just ignoring the port, is ignoring the need for the economic recovery of the entire northern region of the country. Since this is the region that has most exported, the attitude of the TAP seriously compromises the resumption of the country's economic activity, which is confirmed that the TAP is no longer at the service of the Portuguese and the development of the country to focus exclusively on its own profitability, above all when we realize that we are faced with the real possibility of it being financed by the State. What we believe is that the State cannot continue to be a hostage to private interests and therefore for the Greens, no matter how many times they take place and how many more remedies are being done, the problem can only be resolved if the State takes public control of the TAP. This logic of the state to be a shareholder but not to command, and only to be called when funding is needed, is already, of itself, unhealthy, but becomes even more serious when that company only looks at its own interests, without any concern about its contribution to the development of the country and at this time for the resumption or relaunch of economic activity in our country. For this reason, Mr President, without wanting to devalue the TAP, I would like to ask whether or not it considers that, with this position, the company is contributing to the resumption of the country's activity.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u195	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u196	I will finish, Mr. President. Mr President, I would like to ask you now what balance sheet I make of the privatisation of TAP, made by the PSD and the CDS. Was it good for the public interest? It is that the PSD, instead of asking whether the government has already achieved TAP control, could ask whether the government has already solved the problem that the PSD and CDS have created.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u197	To request clarification, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u198	Mr President, Mr João Gonçalves Pereira, once again notes which side is the CDS and which interests comes from the CDS to represent and defend in this parliamentary debate in relation to TAP and civil aviation in Portugal. In fact, it was noted that the honourable Member was still reluctant to talk about the problem of routes from the port, as if the concrete responsibility for these unacceptable decisions, which harm the north and the country as a whole, was not precisely the private management of the TAP! As if the memory of the people was short and we would not remember this even having happened soon after the privatization made by their government, which handed the TAP to this same multinational, that the first thing that made it cut on the TAP routes from the port. Don't you remember, sir? Oh, my God! You don't think we remember? Oh, my God! Of course, no one was surprised by the absolute silence that Mr. Member in his political statement dedicated to the workers of TAP, TAP companies, civil aviation companies in our country, workers who are subject to a layoff regime, with the salaries cut off, who have been sent to unemployment and who do not know how to return, who look to the future with concern and uncertainty. We are not surprised at everything that you are not concerned about. And once again, we had here a repetition of the lie of the public money conversation in TAP, when in fact the state has not transferred to the TAP for a hundred decades. But it was the PSD/CDS government that, in 2015, outside the law, placed the State giving public guarantees of nearly 800 million euros for private management of TAP as bonus in the privatisation business, such money from the taxpayers you are now talking about. Mr President, the role of the State is not to sign checks for multinationals. The role of the State is to defend the TAP, defend the sector, defend the workers, defend this factor of sovereignty and development that is the flag airline and the civil aviation sector in Portugal. What is needed is to ensure effective public control of the company, and not to sign checks, and to have someone to see where the money goes. What is really needed is to defend the national interest. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u199	You now have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr André Silva, of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u200	Mr President, Mr João Gonçalves Pereira, the honourable Member today brought the debate to a company, TAP, which, with the approval of the Government, has acted on two sides. When it comes to receiving public money, they claim to be a company, a company that is strategic for the country; when it comes to making decisions that effectively serve the public interest, the interest of the citizens, we hear the TAP say that it is a business company and that it works seeking profit. This duality is clear in the programme for the restoration of flights which it presented, according to which « Portugal is Lisbon and the rest is landscape » and therefore it is necessary to provide public service in Lisbon. But more than discussing the form of State intervention and whether this intervention will take place, we must discuss what conditions we should impose on TAP. For the NAP, there are four fundamental axes to be put in this debate. The first concerns the need to ensure that any intervention to be made is not a new cap like the New Bank. The second concerns the need for a thorough financial restructuring of the company, something that should have already been required by the government when the privatisation is reversed. The third axis is linked to the need for TAP to look at the country in an integrated way, valuing autonomous regions, the Algarve and the North. Finally, the fourth and final fundamental axis is linked to the need to ensure that, whatever form of intervention that is to be decided, compliance with certain environmental standards and the adoption of best practices in this field, which may, for example, pass through the imposition of an ambitious CO2 reduction strategy, a rate on kerosene or the prohibition of night flights, is required as a counterpart. I therefore ask you, very specifically, how does the CDS view this issue of whether, regardless of the form of intervention, compliance with environmental standards and targets is imposed on TAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u201	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Isabel Pires of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u202	Mr President, Mr João Gonçalves Pereira, from the CDS, comes again to Parliament to talk about TAP, but not to talk about TAP. It is that once Parliament comes to be the megaphone of the interests of the private shareholder is one thing; seeing twice is already problematic; now, coming here a third time, to the plenary, defending exactly those that are the proposals of private investors and private shareholders of the TAP is absolutely unbelievable. And I'll tell you why. It is because you often speak in committee and here in plenary about the concern about taxpayers' money. So I wanted you to explain to me and to the Portuguese, how the taxpayers' money is being defended by defending the private shareholders' proposal, which says "we want State guarantees", that is, they want guarantees that sit on the public record, "but we don't want the State to have anything to do with the management of this company." Then explain to the Portuguese where the taxpayers and taxpayers' money are being defended. Mr. Deputies, you're nowhere! And you know very well that you are not, because the CDS and PSD have engaged in privatization, already not to mention the sale at the balance price they did, a company that represents a strategic sector for the economy, and at the same time they have made that private administration that the only thing that has done, in recent times, in addition to masking some apparent improvements that you have done at the service, is to increase the debt, to have too expensive leasings of your planes, is to have a permanent labour conflict for not complying with the company agreement and also to have decided, at the moment, to cut the income of the workers. Private management therefore does not serve the public service because, within the public service, it must be given very great importance to territorial cohesion, which, in this case, is not appropriate, which has to do with private management, does not respect workers, does not respect public record. So if you want to defend the public record so much, then tell the Portuguese how, directly defending what private investors say, you can make that defense. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u203	To reply, Mr João Gonçalves Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u204	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the questions put here and start by answering Mr José Luís Ferreira, telling him the following: of course, the TAP is important for the whole economy and it is important for the country. And when the CDS says TAP is important for the country, it says it is important in the north, in the middle and in the south.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u205	What about the islands? Oh, my God! Don't forget the islands!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u206	And this must also be the company's commitment to the country. On the question of financing — and with this also responding to the Left Block — the capital injection in the TAP, in the company, you forget that this injection is made because there was a pandemic. And TAP is not the only case in the world. Several States are injecting money into their airlines — you will not know if you do not read newspapers and follow what is happening in the world — precisely to assure those workers that you are talking about. Thus, these capital injections are being made by several States due to a pandemic that unfortunately we are living. Therefore, they do not have to do with acts of good or bad management. But we are going there to good or bad management, the question of privatization and such results, what they talk about, the privatization and the defense of private interest. What I stand for is private management. Do you know why, Your Honor? You know why, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen? For a simple reason : the number of TAP passengers, between 2015 and 2019, was more than 65 %...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u207	At the same time, you have damage!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u208	... and the number of workers, Mrs Isabel Pires, was more than 20 %, i.e., there are more than 2000 workers in the company. In reply to Mr Pan concerning his environmental concern, I would say that there has been an increase in the fleet and this renewal of the fleet has been done with aircraft that pollute less. I think you will recognize that. [[Laughs from PAN MP André Silva.]] As for destinations, there was an increase in turnover, there was a 40 % increase, and I am not going to talk about contributions to the State. But there's a given, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, that proves that this could only be done with private management. Do you want a good example of what is good private management? It is a company that in 2015 had an EBITA (Earnings Before Interest, Tax and Amortization ), which allows you to evaluate the value of a company of 115 million euros and that today — you know how much is TAP EBITA today? — has an EBITA of EUR 500 million! This says about the difference between private management and public management. With regard to public management, I do not want to recall what Eng. Guterres said in 1997 about TAP. But this private management allows these same results. Public management, what does it mean? More taxpayer money, more taxpayer money and more taxpayer money!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u209	It's private management with public money!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u210	Next, you must go to work directly for TAP!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u211	For a political declaration, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u212	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The times we are living today are indeed challenging in many dimensions and the work dimension is not beyond this phenomenon. If, before, working at home was seen as a royalty or something that happened very exceptionally in some companies, under very special conditions and that did not generate confidence in this work model, confinement has shown us that telework can be an ally of productivity, time for the family and environmental commitments. The spread of the new coronavirus in our country brought us before a new reality and led to profound changes in the operation of companies, which had to look for new ways to produce and relate to their workers. The use of telework was one of the essential mechanisms to ensure continuity of production in some sectors and to safeguard the maintenance of jobs, becoming the rule of business day-to-day and not the exception. contrary to what was thought, its widespread implementation has proved that there is a very wide set of activities that can be performed by workers away from home, not being mandatory to be present at the workplace. The cultural resistance that existed at telework was unfounded, even because companies quickly adapted to this reality, with quite positive results. However, at this stage of transition, we found that the government did not ensure that this mechanism continued to be possible in the molds in which it was during the state of emergency, as there are some reservations shared by ideological criteria that somehow leave out the one that was assumed at this stage as a mechanism of response to COVID-19, defended even for its various benefits. The use of this new form of work can and should be more frequent in the future. There are, in fact, several advantages of telework that we cannot help but point out. Firstly, telework is a mechanism for enhancing productivity, demystifying what was a stigma around this form of work, improving the quality of life of people, the well-being and personal satisfaction of workers, something that no employer should neglect. On the other hand, it is also an instrument that will allow the peaks of peak hours and the long hours lost in traffic. We well know that many of us lose about 1 hour to 1 and a half, daily, on each side, on our travels, no longer to mention the economic, environmental, personal and social costs associated with these day-to-day house-work/home-work travels. We know that collective transport, which has already been discussed here today, is not yet able to respond to the real needs of people at the level of mobility, particularly in large cities. The images that demonstrate human transport, a situation now aggravated by the crisis of the COVID-19, the reduction in supply and the establishment of a maximum allowed lot, without an end in view, in particular the one that can be a solution by those who have government responsibilities. In addition to the high risks that this situation has to our health, many people end up waiting long periods for the next transport, since in previous transport they were denied entry because they had reached the maximum lot. In addition, the insufficiency at the level of the collective transport network causes more and more people to use individual transport, which has high environmental impacts and constitutes a backwardness in what are the targets of decarbonization, and consequently also has negative effects on the quality of life and well-being of people. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not just the health curve that we have to reduce. It cannot also remain the commitment to flatten the climate change curve, just as it cannot, on the other hand, stand behind the commitment to increase and make, in fact, shoot that which must be the time for the family, the time for itself and the quality of life of all of us. And this is where telework can be an ally, contributing, of course, with the reduction of displacements and, consequently, with the reduction of emissions that contribute to climate change, to the improvement of air quality, thus reducing associated diseases and costs for the national health system itself. The need for road infrastructure and public transport is also reduced, bringing even savings to the State. Enterprises reduce their costs and can also save operating costs, while, of course, they must, without neglecting them, make up for workers with potentially increased costs, and people can, as a rule, be more productive in this model, better manage their professional and family life and avoid displacement. The widespread use of this model, when possible, can also bring profound benefits to the State and to people, not understanding, therefore, that we continue to keep our eyes closed to this solution. At the level of spatial planning and housing pressure, we can combat regional asymmetries and create greater housing decompression in large urban centres, by enabling people to choose to live in areas with lower population density, and also stimulate, from an economic point of view, depressed areas, thus passing from what is often something proclamational in this House of democracy to the implementation of all these tools. We recognize that telework can have other consequences, especially for workers, who are at risk of seeing their personal and family life invaded by their work. The reconciliation between family life and working life is still a challenge for many families and, under telework, private and labour plans are easily mixed. In addition, new technologies in the context of work do not affect all people and it must be ensured that, in fact, on the one hand, there is no one to be left behind and on the other hand it does not contribute to the disruption of the rest periods of workers nor leads to the unlimited extension of the working day. in these cases, it is essential to occur what has not yet been, which is the regulation, based on respect for the rights of workers, so that, even at home, one can separate the professional sphere from the family sphere. It is clear today that in many cases the provision of work may occur at a distance, the NAP argues that it is essential to rethink the way in which we work and to end the ideological prejudices that have shared this solution, in particular by the employers themselves.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u213	Madam Member, I call your attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u214	I conclude now, Mr President. Consequently, what we propose is that this legislation be regulated, thus gaining people, at the level of quality of life and family reconciliation, either the planet, with the positive impact on the environment, or, above all, all of us, with that which can be a means of reconciling family and professional life, being a much more sustainable measure from an environmental point of view. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u215	Mrs. Deputy, five were registered. Members to make requests for clarification. I don't know how the honourable Member wants to answer...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u216	Mr President, I shall answer two, first and then three. Ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u217	Thank you very much, Mrs. Deputies. So you have the floor, first of all, to make your request for clarification, Mr João Piinho de Almeida, of the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u218	Mr President, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, I would like to congratulate you not only on bringing this issue, but also on the content of your speech, which I fully agree with. I believe that the approach you have made here is what the country must do at a time like this, when it was confronted with an inevitability and, being confronted with an inevitability, could have been the best way to realize that there is a reform point in the way we view the work that is essential to do, and in the three dimensions that it brought here. In the personal dimension, because this model brings, of course, a possibility to extend our quality of life, in a way very different from that which is possible when it is currently working, especially when it is currently working in large metropolitan areas, with pendulum movements that take many hours to personal life, because they do not count for the hours of work but count for the loss of the quality of life we have; in the environmental dimension, which has been placed here and which is essential, given the amount of resources that are consumed for totally unproductive matter, i.e. not adding any value, from the economic point of view, resources that should not be consumed daily; in the productivity dimension, and it is not a matter which has not already been studied, given the relationship between increasing productivity and the possibility of working at a distance. I wanted to ask you two questions, agreeing with all this. First of all, I think very well what you have referred to, but I have doubts when you put so much weight in the regulation, because there is no greater enemy of the efficiency of this type of measure and there will be no greater enemy of the worker's freedom to use this type of work than a regulation that normally goes towards a more rigid perspective, going to the encounter of the ideological complexes you have referred to, and which may not make this instrument more generalized but even more restrictive.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u219	Sir, I call your attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u220	I will finish, Mr. President. The second question I put to you, Mrs Deputies, has to do with a conjunctural point, which is the confusion that the State and the Government have made between telework and support for the family. I'd like to know if you don't think it's essential that the government distinguish one thing from the other...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u221	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u222	...and do not assume that anyone in telework can provide support to the family, without it being recognized as such.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u223	To make your request for clarification, Mr Fernando José of the Socialist Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u224	Mr President, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, I begin by pointing out and thanking the honourable Member for bringing to the debate a very important issue, telework. in this new and difficult phase of our lives, in which we are required the greatest exercise of citizenship and joint effort in combating this pandemic, here arises the need to reinvent and adapt existing concepts. The Socialist Party's Electoral Programme had seen as one of the priorities to boost telework. In 2019, the first steps were taken in the Public Administration, i.e. to enhance telework in the Public Administration was something that began in 2019 : to make the use of telework more attractive, as a way to facilitate the provision of work; to enable the maximization of the use of technologies and the reconciliation between work and family life, with undeniable environmental gains. This new context, which puts everyone to the test, has accelerated this process, which has to be deepened. It is in this sense that the Socialist Party's bench has been putting telework as one of the topics under discussion and it is possible that this discussion may result in a bill. It is necessary to take this challenge, which calls for an opportunity, as a huge opportunity, to enhance the telework regime, but with a regulation protecting workers. Welcome the NAP to this discussion, and we will certainly work together in this project. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u225	To reply, you have the floor of Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u226	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, starting with the CDS and Mr Almeida, I would like to say, first of all, that I am glad that we have a point in common, because normally they are more matters that separate us than those that approach us. But with regard to this particular matter, particularly with regard to the need for regulation, it does not seem to us to be too much, Mr President, because we cannot forget that we can all be in the same sea but we are not all on the same boat. Indeed, there are many workers who do not have the same working conditions, there are even those who do not have the same tools from a digital point of view, in addition to the issues of reconciliation with family life and support for the family, which cannot be left behind. And only through a regulatory tool — unfortunately, in this respect there must indeed be an interference from the State — can we ensure that workers are not in a disadvantaged position, in view of their labour obligations, but above all their labour rights, and that companies do not commit abuses. On the other hand, and because there is always the reverse of the coin, there must also be a certification here that, from the point of view of productivity, the corresponding rights are fully established and stabilized in the law. With regard to the confusion between telework and support for the family, it was indeed regrettable to note that, even during this period of COVID, there were several initiatives brought here that aimed at this same, i.e. to ensure that one thing would be support for the family, something different would be telework, and that both parents could benefit from this kind of mechanism. But in this respect, it will be up to the government to tell us how someone can be taking care of two or three children, or any child, and working at the same time. Therefore, there must indeed be greater discipline in the tools that are given to people when we ask them to stay at home, when we ask them to come until the twenty-first century and there is greater digitisation in the exercise of their competences, but then they do not give the conditions for this. in this sense, and also responding to Mr Fernando José, I would like to say the following: recently, he said that in 2019, the government began to boost telework in the Public Administration. Well, then, it has actually been very shy, because we do not give it to you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u227	I call your attention to time, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u228	I conclude now, Mr President. As I was saying, we did not, in fact, give the inevitable transition that has to happen and the path that has to be done not only in the regulation but also in the digitalization and working mechanisms at a distance. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u229	You now have the floor to ask for clarification, Mrs Diana Ferreira, from the PCP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u230	Mr President, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, I also congratulate her on the political statement she brought here, and there are a number of issues that we have to raise in relation to this specific topic of telework, and we cannot fail to mention here that the epidemic outbreak that our country has suffered has been used as a pretext for absolutely wild layoffs and absolutely unacceptable labour strikes, including in telework situations. There is, therefore, a set of subjects that need to be raised on this subject, for example, in relation to telework in public administration and what this can mean, in terms of loss of presence and guarantee of presence of public services in a set of locations in our country. But this reality and the moment we are living have also shown that telework is indeed not compatible with child monitoring and that these two dimensions must, of course, be separate. Work is work and monitoring the child is accompanying the child, and children have the right to have their parents and mothers to follow their development, which is why these two dimensions have to be very clear. With telework, there is also the risk of loss of rights, worsening of the very precariousness and intensification of a set of pressures on the part of the employers. And we can give here the very clear example of AIMMAP (Association des Industrialis Metalúrgicos, Metalomecanicos e Afinis de Portugal ), which refused to pay the meal allowance to workers in telework, or the example in a contract clause of a worker in telework, where it refers to consumption and payment of the inherent expenses are the responsibility of the teleworker. This is a way of passing costs and responsibilities that are from the companies to the workers' back, which, in our view, is not entirely acceptable, in addition to what it means in terms of increasing and assuming costs with electricity and telecommunications by workers, and even in terms of social isolation of workers themselves. Therefore, this is a reality that brings us a set of concerns.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u231	I call your attention to time, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u232	I'm really finishing up, Mr. President. And the question of public transport is not resolved by telework, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, which is necessary to strengthen the supply of public transport, improve the conditions for access to public transport and strengthen the quality of service in public transport. It's not telework or putting people on telework that will solve this problem. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u233	You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr José Moura Soeiro, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u234	Mr President, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, I would also like to congratulate you on your political statement but tell you that you need to be careful with an idyllic view of telework. We do not deny that it can have advantages, and it pointed out the environmental advantages, and it was also an important instrument in terms of health protection for workers. On the other hand, the workers of the call centres are now demanding that, from 1 June, when they no longer have the guarantee of telework, they can remain in telework to protect their health conditions, and this right must be recognised to workers. But we must also remember the disadvantages and risks of a transition to telework such as that made in this context. And as has already been said, we are not just talking about the reduction of personal contacts, of the social and user-friendly dimension of work, not only that, we are talking about the imposition of longer working days and beyond the legal limit; we are talking about the use of telework to colonize the personal and family time of workers, taking advantage of the dilution of borders between the personal and family life and the working space; we are talking about the imposition of a kind of permanent hyperconnectivity, through which employers find that workers must always be available, thus violating their right to rest; we are talking about phenomena of invasion of privacy, of the personal sphere of the workers, of their home space, as it happened, for example, with Teleperformance, which told the workers that they were obliged to have the house all day to be connected to be controlled at their place of work, which we are still able to reconcile, in fact, the context of their own home, as it happened, the situation of the situation of the Commission, the reason, the intervention which was the most obvious. We cannot say that telework is the provision of work as it is intended, but in a place other than the company — in this case, the house — and at the same time that telework workers have to accumulate full-time work with full-time care of one, two or three children.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u235	Sir, I call your attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u236	I will finish, Mr. President. Therefore, Mrs Deputy, we understand that we need to be calm about these enthusiasms, not romanticize ourselves or dazzle ourselves, and we have concern about the regulation of an area which is rarely regulated in collective bargaining and which needs greater legal protection. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u237	Mrs Lina Lopes of the PSD has the floor to ask for clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u238	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, for us, is of the greatest importance the subject that has brought, so we thank you for your presentation. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the concern about this matter, such as decent work, is present on our agenda. As for us, we must also check whether telework is a work that is considered worthy. Mrs Deputy, that is why the PSD has reiterated the need for an Authority for the Conditions of Labour, because we can monitor whether telework is done in the best way or not. Thus, Mrs Deputy, as we know, COVID has brought new realities, new changes and we believe that, by generalising telework, the strengths of employers who so far did not want to discuss this mode have significantly diminished. So the PSD thinks that we should have a broad debate in society, particularly in social consultation, about telework, because it was actually used — and often there were resistances to the reconciliation of work, family and professional life, as they said here — only and only for women. Today, all workers and companies see the need for telework, but we, in the PSD, believe that this generalisation will not have been done in the best way. We therefore believe that there must be a broad debate and we thank the honourable Member for bringing the subject. Our question is whether or not we agree with the need for this discussion to be made at the centre of social consultation. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u239	To reply, you have the floor of Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u240	Mr President, Mrs Diana Ferreira, starting with the issues of the CFP, I cannot help but wonder if she does not agree that it is time for us to bring to the 21st century the values that we have long defended. When we talk about the need for regulation, we do this precisely in order to guard the concerns that we have left here and I say, not only in the initial intervention I did as in the subsequent ones, which, for the NAP, it is essential that the rights of workers be guaranteed. I also recall that we have brought forward proposals to this House to strengthen the means of the Act, which have been plunged. Therefore, we cannot, in any way, view lightly a debate that has to be made, even because of the fundamental question of the economic development model in which we are currently living, be absolutely unsustainable, not only from an environmental point of view, but also from a human point of view, from the quality of life and from what must be the time for the family. It doesn't make sense that people are hostages in transit or public transport, hours after hours, losing time that could be of quality of life. In fact, there is a paradigm difference between us, Mrs Deputy, and we have to make a change, a leap, even generational, because that is what future generations are demanding of us and these are the concerns we must begin to have, adapting ourselves. With regard to the concerns brought by the Left Block, I must say that we are precisely on a goal not only of respect for labour rights but also of achieving the goals of decarbonisation, with greater reconciliation between the different instruments. The issue of telework is not the solution for decarbonization, but it is part of the solutions and the one that has to be the challenge, if we want to look at the different work tools. I do not understand how you say that you are against capitalism or, often, you come here saying that capitalism is not green and then you think that people continue to be hostages to a past life of work, in which quality time is lost for work and in transit hours. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the regulation can effectively respond to your concerns and, of course, we hope to be able to count on either the CFP or the Left Block to bring here a regulation that is fair and effective for those who need it, until — and bringing the concern on this issue — we agree that there has to be a debate on these matters. Social dialogue must be heard, that is not at stake; but we must not forget that people have to be protected and that, regardless of the model — whether telework or on their own premises — it is essential to ensure that people have decent working conditions and the tools needed to be able to see their guaranteed rights, both at work and at the level of family rights. We must not forget that, if there is a challenge that this crisis will bring us, it is that we will not leave anyone behind. And if, before this crisis, we had problems of poverty and unemployment, which are tending to worsen, this means that there are now at least three fundamental axes that we have to consider: economic and social protection; health protection, which we have to face; but also one of the greatest crises of our times, the environmental crisis, which also deserves a response from all of us. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u241	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, with no further political statements, we are now going to "change the needle". We move on to the second item on the agenda, which is from the assessment of Petition No 601 / XIII / 4. a ( Paulo Jorge Cleto Duarte et al.) — They call for measures to be taken to save the pharmacy, together with Resolution Projects Nos 286 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recommends that the Government take measures to ensure the economic and financial sustainability of Community pharmacies, 122 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of measures supporting the Community pharmacy network, 245 / XIV / 1. a ( IL) — Close access to the medicine and 246 / XIV / 1. a (IL) — For the sustainability of access to the medicinal product. To present draft resolution No 286 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ), Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u242	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We congratulate the subscribers of the petition « Save the pharmacies, fulfill the SNS », with more than 120,000 signatures. Community pharmacies, being essentially micro and small enterprises, play a public service of great importance in the area of health, through the provision of services of proximity, in close relation to local users and communities, of support and counseling. In many pharmacies, especially in small localities and neighborhood pharmacies, a relationship of trust between the pharmacist and the user, which we value, has been created. That is exactly why the PCP always opposed the interests of the economic groups in the area of medicines, as well as the concentration of property in the pharmacy. We therefore propose a set of measures to ensure the population's access to medicines throughout the territory under equal and safe conditions, providing adherence to therapy. From this set, we highlight the need of the Government to work towards: avoiding drug failures; extending the exemption in Community pharmacy from hospital medicines purchased by hospitals as an alternative access solution by sending medicines by hospitals to pharmacy close to the patient's residence, always depending on his option, without this being equal to 1 cent for the state or for users; ensuring that the dispenser of medicines without medical prescription is carried out exclusively in the community pharmacy; and promoting an evaluation of the model of pharmacy remuneration, taking into account experiences from other countries, which enables the adoption of fair remuneration criteria, without paying the State and users. We also defend a more effective intervention by the State in medicine policy to reduce the costs for users and for the State by creating the national drug laboratory with the capacity to produce medicines, and the free supply of medicines in hospitals and health centres, where their cost for SNS establishments is lower than the participation in the purchase in pharmacy. The health and social situation we face in the country cannot serve as a pretext for taking advantage of both pressures and blackmails around particular interests, including economic groups, to the detriment of the collective interest. For the PCP, monitoring of chronic patients and monitoring of users' health should be ensured by primary health care. The solution is not to transfer the provision of these care, but to strengthen primary health care with more means, including more health professionals, closer to the users, with a territorial coverage that guarantees the health care that the populations need. We bring a draft resolution with concrete proposals that I have already mentioned and, in the case of its approval, we can make a significant step and a significant contribution to achieving the goal of ensuring the population accessibility to medicines and health. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u243	To present draft resolution No 122 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ), Mrs Ana Rita Bessa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u244	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: During this debate, the pharmacies have symbolically suspended their activity for 23 minutes, as a way of alerting a critical sector, which we take as guaranteed and which asks us today, through this petition, that their margin of action be reviewed so that they can fulfill their integral role of the service and the health system. In fact, it has been seen very recently that it is a critical sector, because, in time of pandemic, when everything closed, aware of its constituent role in our health system, the pharmacy has remained open and even increased its services: they have created the 1400 line for ordering medicines, for example for elderly and sick people, particularly patients of COVID, and, together with the Order, distributors and industry, have created Operation Light Green, ensuring the delivery of medicines to chronic patients and thus avoiding travel to hospitals. The petition we are discussing today — which has more than 120 000 signatures, making it one of the biggest ones that, in the last two parliaments, we have discussed here — simply calls for recognition of the work of a network which, at national level, often guarantees first support for the disease, access to medicines with security and with unique availability and capillaryness, serving half a million people daily. It does not require subsidies, but rather the ability to provide more services, with a more active regulation, and the recognition that they perform a universal service in geographical areas where economic viability is very difficult, noting that at this time there are about 702 pharmacies, about 25 % of the base, with insolvency problems. The CDS recognises the fundamental role of Community pharmacies, joining its voice with these 120 000 subscribers, and accompanies several of the proposals of this petition, some of them, as I have already said, even demonstrated with gain during the peak of the COVID-19 pandemic. We are therefore presenting today a draft resolution which, as a recommendation to the Government, contains several of these proposals. We are aware that ensuring the health of pharmacies is, to a large extent, also ensuring the health of Portuguese people.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u245	To present Resolution Projects Nos 245 and 246 / XIV / 1. a ( IL), Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u246	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Welcome to another « liberal minute», this time dedicated to the health and well-being of the Portuguese and to the fundamental link that are, for that reason, the pharmacies. I address a first word of greeting to the petitioners, who bring this important issue to the discussion in this plenary. For the Liberal Initiative, community pharmacies are a symbol of proximity to the citizen, ensuring access to the medicine and some treatments with quality, safety and the most convenient way. More than that, it is often the pharmacists who hear the first complaint, who give the first advice, who accompany people daily, especially the older ones. In fact, it is difficult to overestimate the importance of the role that pharmacy plays in our communities. That is why the Liberal Initiative is particularly pleased to discuss, together with this petition, two proposals with the aim of always putting people — patients in this case — at the heart of concerns. A first proposal aims to promote the exemption of hospital medicines from regular use in community pharmacies, avoiding thousands of travel to hospitals and following the good results of pilot projects and, even, the positive experience of solutions adopted temporarily during the pandemic phase. The second proposal aims to avoid frequent situations of shortage and rupture of medicines, especially within the country, by strengthening the sustainability of the drug chain and by reviewing mechanisms for setting margins and price formation. The health system must have as priority the well-being of those who use it. This means ensuring proximity and sustainability in access to the medicine, which is exactly what these Liberal Initiative proposals intend to do.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u247	For an intervention, Mr Moisés Ferreira, of the Left Block, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u248	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I should like to take this opportunity, on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, to congratulate the more than 120 000 petitioners who call on the Assembly of the Republic to adopt measures essentially to promote the sustainability of Community pharmaceuticals and to ensure access to medicines by the entire population. One of the claims contained in this petition and which, fortunately, is already resolved has to do with the absence of private Community pharmacies within public hospitals. In the past legislature, there was a temptation to resurrect this old regime. The Bloc was the only party that opposed, from the beginning to the end, the reprisination of this regime and the proposal ended with a fall of rot, by manifest unconstitutionality, because it was a fact made up to a specific case. So this situation is resolved, and still well. But, if this situation is resolved, there are others, many others, who are still to be resolved, of which I am numbering a few. There are difficulties in access to medicines and failures in the pharmacy. Indeed, there are problems with the pharmaceutical industry, which discontinues drugs that you think are no longer profitable enough, causing failures in access and availability of these drugs. There are also often problems in the distribution and parallel export of medicines that are needed in the country and which should not be exported, causing failures. It is obviously necessary to act in this matter. The Left Block has proposed, for example, that the Military Laboratory be converted into a national laboratory of the medicine, precisely to produce nationally the drugs for which the most failures occur, in order to make the supply and ensure access to medicines by all people. in the same way, we propose greater regulation and greater intervention of INFARMED (National Medicines and Health Products Authority ) to prevent parallel export of medicines that are necessary and which are often missing in the pharmacy. This situation still needs to be resolved. in the same way, it is necessary to solve the problem of property concentration. This situation is causing large economic groups to operate in this area, which often have very aggressive commercial practices to destroy the small pharmacy, small property in the pharmacy, and even completely irresponsible commercial practices, because they induce the often unnecessary consumption of medicines. It is necessary to act in this regard and look at these problems in the face, just as — something the Left Block has always proposed — to ensure that medicines not subject to medical prescription are only sold and dispensed in pharmacy, ending up with competition completely disloyal to the Community pharmacy. Finally, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that the Left Block will follow all the proposals that I have just made, but without forgetting that there is also a need to strengthen, parallel and concomitantly, the National Health Service, including primary health care, hospitals and, in particular, hospital pharmacies. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u249	Mr Sonia Fertuzinhos, from the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u250	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to begin by greeting the National Pharmacy Association, its leaders and all the petitioners of this petition and, in you, also those responsible for the various pharmacy and pharmacists of our country, many of whom have been addressed by e-mail in recent weeks. I also welcome your petition for the opportunity for Parliament to be able to discuss the issues that they pose, and when discussing Parliament, it also discusses the country at the same time. On your petition, the PS Parliamentary Group points out, in this debate, three points which underpin our position. First of all, I would like to recognize the fundamental and irreplaceable role of pharmacies in the different communities of our territory, a role of proximity, as has already been emphasized, and so many times an affective role, with many of those and those who resort to the pharmacy to do so - much beyond the purchase of medicines - to draw doubts, to ask for advice, to undo or even to request the postponement of the payment of medicines for a financially better time - as well as a role of relation to the National Health Service, as it was possible to see again, during the period of emergency, due to the pandemic we are facing. I take this time to thank the National Pharmacy Association and all the pharmacies in our country for having been open, available for what would be possible, for example, in the essential participation in Operation Light Green, also mentioned here. Secondly, I would like to acknowledge the difficulties and challenges faced by pharmacy over several years in its economic and financial sustainability, and thus in the capacity to provide its services to the population, and its role in ensuring access to medicines and in the provision of health care. These difficulties arise, among other circumstances, from the impact of the 2008 and 2009 crisis and from changes in the margin system on the distribution during the period of financial assistance, the reduction in prices, the increase in the share of generics, which, being a positive factor in access to medicines, must be duly weighed on all issues that challenge the sustainability of the pharmacy. I would also like to highlight and acknowledge the spending on medicines in the pharmacy, which has risen in recent years and more markedly in 2017, 2018 and, above all, 2019. On the other hand, I would like to point out the TARR pilot project (Anti-Retroviral Treatment) and Operation Light Green, which we have already mentioned here, which have to be evaluated and which are a good start to discuss the deepening of these same projects and the extension of services that pharmacy can provide to the community. These points are positive, but could speak of others, such as the scheme of direct incentives to pharmaceuticals dependent on the increase in the proportion of generic medicines, the legislation that has been adopted to regulate the installation of medicines, the approval of the Regulation on the Management of the Availability of Medicine, with the aim of ensuring access to these medicines.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u251	I call your attention to time, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u252	I will finish, Mr. President. These points are positive, but we also know that there is still a lot to discuss, a lot of work to do and many challenges to win. So in conclusion, Mr President, I would like to express, on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group — as we did, directly, at a meeting we had yesterday — all our willingness to work with the National Pharmacy Association, with all the pharmacies, so that the projects are in depth and evaluated and the answers are found. We may not always agree on everything, but rely on us to do the work that is imposed on this legislature. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u253	Mr Alvaro Almeida, from the PSD, now has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u254	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are debating today a petition made by some 120 000 citizens, who I am now taking advantage of to greet the person of the first subscriber here. The large number of subscribers that this petition has collected, the dozens of associations of patients who have supported it and the unanimous adherence that it has aroused to professional orders clearly show that the petition does not come of a sudden or ephemeral will, before expressing and arising from a solid and deep social longing. The PSD is in solidarity with the petitioners and with the one who is their goal, and also with the PSD: the preservation of the pharmacy network that the country has today. Pharmacies guarantee the existence of a network of qualified health professionals, who are present throughout the country: a capillary network that reaches places where there is no other health service and a network that therefore promotes cohesion and territorial equity in access to health and combat desertification. Pharmacy is the health service of closer proximity to citizens. A recent survey revealed that the pharmacy is the place that almost half of Portuguese people are looking for when they have a lower health problem and that 90 % of Portuguese people are satisfied with the location and proximity of their pharmacy. The pharmacy network is therefore a fundamental element of the Portuguese health system, but this network is at risk for the lack of economic and financial sustainability of some pharmacies, such as petitioners, in good time, reminded us. It is recalled that the economic viability of a pharmacy does not depend solely on its management, it does not depend solely on the functioning of the market. On the contrary, an important portion of the profitability of pharmaceuticals is determined administratively, for example, by fixing the margins for the marketing of medicinal products. Therefore, the lack of sustainability of many pharmacies is a failure of the government, because it does not determine a fair and adequate remuneration of pharmaceutical services, which go far beyond the mere supply of medicines, such as, for example, it was clear in recent months that we went through this pandemic. These pharmaceutical services can and should be extended. The PSD believes that pharmacies should see their role strengthened in Portuguese access to health and hopes that the government will be able to understand the benefits that would come to people in a stronger collaboration between the pharmacies and the SNS. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It would be serious and also incomprehensible if, precisely at this time of crisis, Portuguese people were at risk of being unable to access critical health services, such as those that pharmacy provides, due to the lack of due and adequate State contribution. The Government must assume its responsibilities and look at the pharmacy as an ally of the SNS in the defence and promotion of Portuguese health. This is the PSD vote and this is the requirement of the Portuguese. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u255	Mr Bebiana Cunha, from the NAP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u256	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, we welcome the more than 120,000 petitioners who allow us to discuss today the role of pharmacy in health responses in Portugal. For the NAP, it is clear that access to health cannot be limited by matters of an economic or geographical nature or for any other reason. There is no doubt about the value of the SNS and there is also certainty about the need for strong structural investment, professional recruitment, acquisition of materials and technological equipment, career recovery and wage updates and a greater commitment to prevention. These aspects, as a whole, can ensure the sustainability of health in Portugal and adequate and timely responsiveness to users, even fighting current waiting lists. Proximity health care is, then, an essential pillar of the SNS and primary health care units are, in fact, the gateway to this service. Community pharmacies have a complementary role in these responses, have a relationship of confidence with the community, and in many cases an important response to people's health problems, as they guarantee access to medication, work in the prevention of the disease, in the literature in health and even in the fight against social isolation. We consider the presence of these responses particularly important in contexts of lower population density or in places where populations have greater health risk or social vulnerabilities. We must remember that the national pharmacy network is considered one of the best in the world in numbers of professionals qualified by pharmacy. But we also remember the difficulties increased in its sustainability. One of these difficulties is the impossibility of ensuring the stock for all the needs of the users, a situation which, in part, could be resolved if competitions for the production and distribution of medicines and pharmaceuticals were planned in advance, which is already possible, taking into account the prevalence of the disease in society. For the NAP, it is necessary to evaluate the availability of certain medicinal products and hospital products in the context of Community pharmacy, which will be possible provided that the safety conditions of the product are guaranteed, clinical surveillance and the absence of aggravating of costs for users. Close access to these medicines, in fact, would make it possible to minimize many constraints that are felt by people, including older people, people with chronic or economic problems or people who feel that there is no transport and therefore have various difficulties in accessing the medication they need. In conclusion, I would like to say that for the NAP, in a national strategic planning perspective, it is essential to look at the territory, which identifies local health needs, ensuring the implementation of proximity structures with populations with greater fragility.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u257	Mr José Luís Ferreira, of the Greens Ecological Party, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u258	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, and on behalf of the Greens, I would like to take this opportunity to welcome the citizens who have subscribed to the petition « Save the Pharmacies, fulfill the SNS », which has also motivated this agenda, also greeting the National Association of Pharmacies ( ANF ), which has promoted this initiative with more than 120 000 subscribers. As a first note, I would like to say that the Greens believe that measures must be taken to ensure the economic and financial sustainability of the Community pharmacies which are often the first place Portuguese resort to in health and well-being issues and which are therefore of strategic importance in the health service. We also want to highlight the service of proximity, of close relationship with the users and local communities, in which sometimes there is even a great relationship of trust with the pharmacist. All of this must, in the Greens' opinion, be valued, but this is not enough. It is necessary to ensure the appropriate conditions for the normal functioning of the pharmacy and to recognise and value the commitment and availability of its professionals. Pharmacies have sought to modernize and innovate from a technological point of view to improve the service provided and it is undeniable that the COVID-19 pandemic has demonstrated its organizational capacity to immediately materialize the great national public health objective that was to keep citizens, in particular those of risk groups, at home, through various measures that allowed users to have access to their medicines. But no one can ignore that many pharmacies go through economic and financial difficulties that have also affected populations, and it is clear that in recent years, the country has been confronted with the collapse of stocks, not forgetting also the thousands of jobs at risk. In general, pharmacies are micro and small enterprises and employ about 20 000 workers. But the difficulties are increased especially in territories within the country, despite its importance for territorial cohesion, so we reinforce that a network of sustainable pharmacies is fundamental to the quality and equality of citizens in access to health at all points of the territory. We know that this problem is not new and it is important to remember that in the times of the troika, with the support of the PSD, the CDS, and also the PS, like many sectors, the pharmacy also went through great difficulties and many had, in fact, to close doors. Many of these impacts are still felt today, which explains that nearly 700 drugstores are in insolvency or are in trouble at the eye. We have no doubt that the pharmacies approach the citizens' SNS, hence their importance to the communities and the need to ensure their sustainability so that all users have access to medicines throughout the territory, and special attention should be paid to those with greater weakness and to those who are located inside. Finally, saying that the Greens accompany all the legislative initiatives that are under discussion today and that, in our view, they will respond to the problems posed by the petitioners.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u259	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr Ventura, of the Arrival.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u260	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by greeting all the subscribers of this petition. Saving pharmacy is a fundamental task. Saving health, proximity and, above all, articulating community pharmacies with local health units are fundamental tasks that must unite us all. But with this « all», we cannot continue to have the CFP, as usual, to attack, even in this project, those who hold the pharmacy, to worry about the economic groups and always ask the ideological question to prevent the debate being done, when we should be discussing the service of the pharmacy. And it's true, today, the 23 minutes we're here, the pharmacies have their activity suspended. They do it because they're sick of strangulation that they've been poisoned by this sector. Mr. José Luís Ferreira, you are right.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u261	I have! I have!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u262	There are, in fact, more than 700 pharmacies or insolvency proceedings. It's funny that a country that can't sting either Ricardo Salgado or Joe Berardo, still manages to sting pharmacies by suffocating them. This should be a moment of unity around those who ask us for support and not an empty ideological debate about the properties of the pharmacy, its groups or its effects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u263	Sir, your time is up.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u264	This should be, as the petition says, to save the pharmacy and not to save the ideology behind this.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u265	Mr President, at the worst moments of the pandemic, on the hygienic walks that I was taking, I remember - I remember that I was going through three pharmacies and never saw them closed, either by day or by night. Then he learned about the very important social role they have in Portuguese society, with the most disadvantaged Portuguese. [[PSD, CH and PS Members applauded.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us conclude this point and now go to the third item on the agenda, which is the assessment of Petition No 615 / XIII / 4. a ( José Maria da Silva Jácome et al.) — They request the adoption of measures for the construction of the new hospital in Lagos, together with the Resolution Projects Nos 213 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends that the Government develop the necessary procedures for the construction of the new hospital in Lagos, 280 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — For the accelerated construction of the new hospital in Lagos, 269 / XIV / 1. a (PEV) — For the urgent construction of the new hospital in Lagos and 414 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — The construction of the new hospital in Lagos with adequate planning of its future valences and integrated into the health care network. You have the floor for an intervention to present the draft resolution of BE, Mr José Vasconcelos.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u266	Mr. President, I'm John, not José, but it doesn't matter. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, all petitioners — more than 5000 — and of course the Municipal Assembly of Lagos, which promoted this public petition for the right to health in the Lands of the Child, i.e. in the councils of Lagos, Aljezur and Vila do Bispo ; a petition for the construction of the new hospital of Lagos. This is a fair claim, for a long time pursued by populations, autarchs, health professionals and other entities of these lands of the Algarve. The Left Bloc has always accompanied and defended this claim and, in the past Parliament, even presented a draft resolution, which was approved, including by the Members of Parliament and by the Members of Parliament. PS Members, but the government has done nothing about this. And here we are again with a draft resolution to follow this petition, where the Government is recommended to build the new hospital in Lagos. This need is more urgent than ever before, in a time of pandemic and in the times that we will have to follow. After having been a district hospital since 1983, and being part of the National Health Service, the Hospital de Lagos integrated the Hospitalar do Barlavanto algarvio in 2004 ; in 2013, with the PSD Government / CDS, it integrated the Hospitalar do Algarve ; and in 2017, it integrated the new Hospitalar Universitário do Algarve (CHUA), created by the former Government of PS. If many difficulties began to arise about 20 years ago, it was certainly with the PSD/CDS government that these difficulties increased and that the National Health Service became more degraded, both in this hospital and throughout the Algarve SNS, not to go any further. Many valences and services have been reduced or closed, such as maternity and the operating block, human resources have declined dramatically and investments have been full of nothing. Today, the hospital in Lagos provides only a basic emergency service, a medical service with few beds of internment, a laboratory of external analysis and consultations with very few specialties. The current facilities prove themselves to be draining and inadequate for its expansion, taking into account the location where it is inserted, next to the city walls. over several years there have been many demands, demonstrations, sub-signed and protests of populations and various official entities, so that the new Hospital de Lagos was effectively built to ensure a National Health Service worthy and fair to these same populations. Even since 2009 the Lake Authority itself has made available a plot of land for this wish. And the various governments we have had, PS and PSD / CDS, have made a table of these claims and have not wanted to know about these needs.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u267	Sir, your time is up.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u268	To conclude, this draft resolution presents again the urgency of the construction of the new hospital in Lagos. We also support all the proposals here and hope that this proposal and the demands of the populations will finally be put into effect and that the Government will begin this construction. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u269	For a presentation of the draft resolution No 280 / XIV / 1. a, has the floor Mr. João Dias.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u270	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Allow me - first of all, health and meet the petitioners present in the galleries and, through it, fulfill the more than 4500 petitioners claiming the construction of the new hospital in Lagos, claiming this which has great popular support, and the PCP is fully accompanying the object of the petition. In addition, we present a draft resolution for the speedy construction of the new hospital in Lagos, that is, also the parliamentary group of the PCP believes that the construction of the new hospital is urgent and unacceptable, which will allow the resolution of the problems that the PCP well knows. The PCP has visited the hospital several times. We know the problems of lack of space, lack of conditions for the exercise of many of the valences and the great lack of access by its location. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this hospital has been promised for a long time. This is already the second time that the Assembly of the Republic decides on its construction. That is why we need to remember this whole process. In 2009 there was hope that the project would advance, with the approval by the Regional Health Administration ( Regional Health Administration ) of the functional program of the new hospital. Even the municipal chamber has given up the land for this purpose, but until today, 11 years later, nothing has happened. In 2011, two years back, without signs of further construction, the PCP Parliamentary Group insisted with the troika government — PSD and CDS — to advance construction. In view of the commitments that the Government had then made under the Troika assistance programme, it was justified, saying that it had no financial availability. After the troika, already with the former PS Government, the construction of the hospital showed no sign of progress, so the PCP decided to present a draft resolution in May 2018, which recommended to the Government the rapid construction of the new hospital in Lagos, to which the Left Block was joined, having come to be approved a Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic, in July 2018. Nothing has yet moved forward, however. It understands the PCP that this petition is another important and revealing contribution of the will of the populations of the Children's Lands to see their hospital advance. And the PCP gives you all your support. It is very important to resolve a problem for decades, and it is certain that the construction of the hospital does not solve all the problems in the region. That is why the hospital has to be built, but it is equipped with the appropriate professionals and equipment so that it can provide quality health care and recover valences such as maternity and operating block, which has already lost. You can count on the PCP. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u271	You have the floor, for an intervention to present the draft resolution No. 269 / XIV / 1. a, Mrs Mariana Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u272	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Green Party welcomes the more than 4500 petitioners who have signed the petition for the urgent construction of the new hospital in Lagos. With the discussion of this petition in plenary, we bring the debate what the Greens have been saying for a long time: more and better investment is needed in the National Health Service. this increased and better investment includes the government's necessary and urgent decision to initiate the construction process of the new public hospital in Lagos, as we mentioned in the draft resolution today under discussion. Unfortunately, the Hospital de Lagos does not guarantee the necessary responses, in the context of hospital health, to the resident populations, particularly the municipalities of Lagos, Aljezur and Vila do Bispo, to which, as we all know, there is still a greater demand in the bathing season, with the presence of numerous tourists. When, after the April 25 Revolution, the Hospital de Lagos began to integrate the National Health Service, improved the provision of health care, having been endowed with several very relevant valences, such as an emergency service, diagnostic services and analysis, operating block, maternity, having also improved in the conditions of hospitalization. There has been a qualitative leap that is important to show. The truth is, for about 20 years and up to today, the Lagos hospital has been losing valence, including the operating block and maternity. Deinvestment is notorious, both at the level of human resources, and at the level of equipment and technical means to generate efficiency to health services provided to populations. Since 2017, this hospital has been integrated into the Algarve University Hospital Center, but the successive integrations and reintegrations that have occurred over the past few years have not resulted in an improvement in the response capacity of this hospital unit. Conscious of this problem, and seeking the guarantee of the constitutional right to health, the populations, workers, the autarchs and other forces of the region have long claimed the construction of a new hospital in Lagos. In addition to the need for this recovery of lost valences and urgency in the realization of an adequate investment to strengthen the human and technical means, the current facilities are indeed scarce and collide with the city walls, classified as a national monument. It is not possible to expand the services provided by this hospital, in view of the existing reality, in the space in which it is located, nor to promote the increase in the number of beds, of areas of consultation, of areas of expertise and the strengthening of valences. thus, the construction of a new hospital in Lagos is an imperative, in order to adapt the facilities to the needs of response of this hospital unit. [[Congrats from PCP MP João Dias.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u273	To present the Resolution Project No. 414 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — To build the new Hospital de Lagos, with an adequate planning of its future valences and integrated into the health care network, Mrs Bebiana Cunha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u274	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, we welcome the more than 4500 petitioners who allow us to discuss this issue. The problems of the Lagos hospital, particularly in the capacity to provide hospital health care to the populations of the municipalities of Lagos, Aljezur and Vila do Bispo, as well as to the national and international tourists visiting this region, are suddenly known and are, in fact, very old. Public protests are several. The petitioners give us a detailed account of these protests, which date back to the year 2000, with the deliberations of the Municipal Health Commission, the deliberations of the municipal assemblies and the municipal chambers themselves. It is from the general knowledge that health care in the Algarve has been degraded and that it is necessary to row in the opposite direction. It is necessary to invest in health care in the Algarve in an integrated and networked way. There is a shortage of specialists, there is governmental incapacity to fix them, there are health extensions that have closed, which are now open, are now closed, there are people who wait months to consult in health centres and there are still patients sent to Lisbon or to hospital emergencies due to the absence of responses to proximity. Missing consulting offices, missing equipment, missing internment beds. The facilities are degraded and dimensioned to an already outdated reality, a reality of decades. The Lagos hospital has suffered a reduction in its ability to provide hospital health care, and it has been even removed services and valences, including the operating block and maternity, and reduced material resources and human resources. Also in the hospital of Portimão and in Faro the structural problems are many. In fact, in the Faro hospital, the lack of human and financial resources even resulted in several resignations in February of this year. The crisis of the National Health Service has been dragging itself too long in the Algarve, which stands out as the region of the country with a more negative assessment of the quality of health services in Portugal. For the NAP, the construction of the new hospital in Lagos should be presented as a duly integrated added value in the vision of a regional network of health units, which responds to serious health problems in the Algarve, which serves the population better and provides an adequate response to emerging health access needs in both lakes and surrounding municipalities. The NAP then challenges the Assembly of the Republic to recommend to the Government that it move forward with the construction of the new hospital in Lagos, as a nearby health infrastructure, with adequate planning of its future valences and integrated into the health care network. We hope that, with the approval of this project, you can begin to solve a problem that is probably over 20 years old.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u275	Mr Rui Cristina of the PSD now has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u276	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On behalf of the PSD, I greet all petitioners No 615 / XIII / 4. the, signed by more than 4500 citizens, who request the government to build a new hospital in the city of Lagos. This is not a new issue, since in the past legislature the Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic No 267 / 2018 of 13 August was adopted, whereby this Parliament recommended to the Government the speedy construction of the new hospital in Lagos. However, this is an increasingly urgent issue, since the current hospital in Lagos, although integrated into the University Hospital Center in Algarve, has been losing more and more valences, services, human resources and materials. This adds unsurpassable limitations in terms of physical space and operating conditions, which compromise the validity of the hospital unit itself. It is not surprising that the populations that live in the municipalities of Lagos, Aljezur and Vila do Bispo have long long been eager to be served by a new nearby hospital equipment in the region of Barlavento algarvio. In this regard, it is important not to forget that Algarve's own ARS approved in 2009 — yes, about ten years ago — the functional programme of the new hospital in Lagos, with the Municipal Chamber of Lagos providing a plot for the construction of this same hospital equipment. The PSD has long denounced the degradation of the National Health Service in the Algarve region. The truth is that there is a particularly visible and loud degradation in the University Hospital Center of Algarve, due to the lack of public investment and the constant postponement of the construction of new health equipment. [[PS Member Protests Hortense Martins.]] We do not confuse these complaints with the parliamentary initiatives of the far-left parties, only committed to taking advantage of the righteous demands of the populations of the Barlavonto algarvio to defend their political conceptions statistical and sectarian. For us, PSD, what really matters is the rapid construction of a new hospital in Lagos, a new hospital that can only be conceived in the context of the construction of the future central hospital in Algarve, because we view a new hospital in the city of Lagos as a complementary unit of the CHUA, whose support network it must integrate. For the PSD, this new hospital should be oriented towards a quality and proximity care activity, which favours the provision of outpatient health care and has a basic emergency service, properly integrated into the national emergency and emergency network. That is our only commitment. We want in the Algarve, from Vila do Bispo to Vila Real de Santo António, health services that serve people and guarantee their right of access to health services. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u277	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa of the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u278	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by greeting the more than 4500 petitioners of this petition, who, as has already been said, ask for the construction of a new hospital in Lagos. It is a 2019 petition, but the matter is indeed dragging itself from 2000 onwards and has not been integrated as expected and as voted in the Municipal Assembly of Lagos, the State Budget nor of 2018, nor of 2019. But in the 2020 State Budget there was a good surprise: the construction of a new hospital in the Algarve was approved. But the surprise soon came to news, in which the Minister of Health realized that the construction of this hospital, beginning, would never be before 2021. In any case, the fact that we are in the State Budget does not offer us much peace. See the case of Eastern Lisbon hospitals or Seixal hospitals, which have been there for about four or five years and therefore have not seen the light of the day. But, finally, rather than nothing. We know that there are many problems in health services in the Algarve, we know that the hospital in Lagos has not had investment and, in fact, has no space to grow and develop. We also know, and it is factual, that, in addition to this hospital, there are two more public hospitals that integrate the same hospital and there are seven private hospitals serving the population of the Algarve. For the CDS, the question is to understand how the efficient use of all, I repeat, of the entire capacity in the Algarve area should be planned and also how it should be designed, in geographical terms, to provide health care, so that there is an efficient use of that same capacity, considering, of course, the region of Lagos. For the CDS, if the answer to these questions, to these drawings and to this planning of the offer pass and result from the imperative need for the construction of a new root hospital, we will not oppose and, in this sense, will make possible the draft resolutions under discussion today.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u279	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Joaquina Matos, of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u280	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I also welcome the strong petitioners who came to this House to accompany the subject under discussion, as a result of the petition already referred to, a public petition on the construction of a new hospital in Lagos, which has collected a considerable number of signatures. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, at the end of the 15th century, the Santa Casa da Misericórdia de Lagos already had a hospital...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u281	By 1400!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u282	... located in the area where still today it is encased in the primitive core of the historic center, overlooking the city walls. throughout the centuries, benefiting from expansion and remodeling works, it was always maintained with the provision of hospital services. In 1974, it was nationalized, moving to integrate the National Health Service, and improved the provision of health care, because it was endowed with several valences at the level of the operating block, hospitalization, emergency service and maternity, which at the time resulted in a significant improvement in the provision of health services and care to the population of Lagos and also Aljezur and Vila do Bispo, which was joined, over the years, by a growing number of tourist citizens. In 1989, he passed the district hospital and, in 2004, together with the hospital in Portimão, originated the Hospital Center of Barlavanto Algarvio. In 2013, it became part of the Algarve Hospital Centre, currently the Algarve University Hospital Center, as a result of a process of fusion of bad memory that caused a significant decrease in the quality of the National Health Service in the region, in a PSD government. [[PSD and CDS-PP rice.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u283	There it is!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u284	Over the past two decades, the hospital has lost its valences and has seen its ability to provide hospital care reduced by reducing technical means, equipment and human resources. I recall that in 2008 / 2009 the ARS Board approved the functional program of the new hospital in Lagos, in a process that led to the approval, by the then Minister of Health, of the project and study for the completion of the new hospital in Lagos, on land transferred by the autarchy. over the years, the demand for the need to build the hospital has been constant, relocating it, by taking the position of the population, which has always been present in the most critical moments of the hospital's life, of the authors of the three municipalities of the Association of Municipalities Terras do Infante ( Aljezur, Lagos and Vila do Bispo ), strongly committed to the realization of this process, and of the regional Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u285	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u286	Today, the hospital has a basic emergency service, with maximum rental for 20 patients, a medical service with 40 beds of admission, an analysis and external consultation laboratory in some specialties, which is little! Currently, ARS is developing work to redefine the regional hospital network,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u287	Madam Member, I would like to draw your attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u288	... including the construction of the new central hospital of the Algarve and also the relocation of the hospital of Lagos, which, as a nearby hospital, will contribute to the necessary qualitative leap of the National Health Service and will promote the equitable access to health care for the populations of this region of the Barlavento algarvio, understanding the absolute need for continuation and implementation of this process. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u289	To close this point, I give the floor to Mr Ventura of the CH. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u290	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I did not get up soon, because I was amazed at this intervention by the Socialist Party. I was, in fact, stunned. [[PS protests.]] I don't know if you've understood, but since the problem already comes from the 15th century, forget, because you're not going to have any hospitals by the hands of the Socialist Party either. Don't stop being funny... [[PS protests.]] Excuse me! Everything has limits! We have a communist party that comes to the Assembly and says: « Since 2009 we have had the land». But who was in the government in 2009? Oh, my God! Was it me? Oh, my God! Was this bench here? Oh, my God! I was the Eng.o José Socrates in the government in 2009! In 2000, the Municipal Health Commission allowed and defined the operation of the Lagos hospital. It's on the PCP site ( from time to time I go there). Repeat : is on the PCP website. [[PCP laughter.]] Who was in the government in 2000? Was it me? These were the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen? It was you, my God! And now you're saying that it was the PSD, the CDS, the right? Have at least the notion that if there are no hospitals in Lagos today, if the populations of Vila do Bispo, Aljezur and Lagos do not have hospitals, this has a name, which is the Socialist Party! When you come here to talk about the merger, as Mrs Joaquina Matos has done now, I even thought she was in another country, in which the MOU was not Eng. José Socrates,... [[PS protests.]] ... but anyone else here in this Parliament. It's embarrassing! It's embarrassing what they do here! [[PSD applause.]] And these petitioners who are here deserved at least... [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u291	Sir, I would like to draw your attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u292	I will finish, Mr. President. As I was saying, these petitioners deserved at least more respect from the Socialist Party and less complicity from the far left, which does nothing but that. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u293	Thank you, sir. You really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u294	Have a good night and thank you very much. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-27.u295	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of the debate on the last item on today's agenda. It is up to me to announce the agenda for tomorrow's plenary meeting, which will start for 15 hours. Thus, from the first point of view, there is the debate on the appeal to the Government No 3 / XIV / 1. the, required by the PS, on responses of the social state to the pandemic caused by the SARS-CoV-2 virus. In the second and final point we shall have a vote on the Rules of Procedure. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, good night and tomorrow. The session is closed. [[It was 19 hours and 7 minutes.]]
