ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 10 hours and 5 minutes.]] Mrs. Members, let us continue with the discussion, in the speciality, of the Bill No 61 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Approves the State budget for 2021. Before we begin the first item on the agenda, with the discussion of the rules avoked by the plenary, I would ask the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen who are in agreement with this article, so as not to confuse themselves with being a Member of the House. Ladies and gentlemen speaking of things and other things. The debate will then be in the order of a lawyer, but before we start it, Mr Secretary has the floor to account for several announcements to the House.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I would like to announce that at yesterday's plenary session Mr Sérgio Marques, elected by the electoral circle of Madeira, was present by video conference. I also refer to the fact that you have entered the Bureau, and it has been admitted, Parliamentary Assessment No 34 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ). Finally, Mr.António Lima Cardoso Ventura, the electoral circle of the Azores, Mrs. Maria da Silva Fialho Quadrado, also the electoral circle of the Azores, from 24 November 2020, also met the legal requirements.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u3	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously, registering the absence of the CH and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] Mrs. Members, we continue to discuss the legal rules of the Proposal for a Law No 61 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) and we started with the proposals submitted by BE, 383 - C for the addition of an article 28. o -A — Establishment of a career as an auxiliary health technician, and 455 - C of adding an article 37. o -A— Full dedication in the National Health Service. Mr Moisés Ferreira, from the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor for one speech. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, the last invitation to tender for the placement of family doctors was 150 vacancies to be filled, meaning that 34 % of the vacancies were deserted. Since the beginning of the pandemic, the National Health Service (NSS) has lost 800 doctors. Over 800 doctors, actually! There are some professionals who trade the SNS for jobs in other areas of activity and there are others who even trade the country for other countries, because the government does not allow them to have a decent career and fair pay in their country. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the fact is that, if nothing is done, the situation can only get worse. If there are no measures to attract professionals and value their careers, the situation will get worse. At each contest, we will continue to lose hundreds of professionals, doctors who were trained in the National Health Service, but who do not stay there. And it will be increasingly difficult to captivate operational assistants, nurses, senior technicians. It is not enough for the PS to say that it is with him that the SNS is moving forward if, because of that same PS, the career of health assistant technicians, after all, it is not going anywhere. It is not enough for Marta Temido to have said that it is not necessary to be afraid of special careers, because when you are afraid of special careers it becomes the SNS inefficient. This is when it is the PS itself to refuse special careers and, therefore, to make SNS inefficient. It is not enough for the PS to say that they want more contracts for the SNS and, soon thereafter, to stand up with the right to chum a full dedication regime that would attract more professionals and stagnate the exit for the private.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u5	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u6	And it is not enough to present a standard to say that after the pandemic you soon see and that, about that of exclusivity, after the pandemic we will talk. That is not enough, because the measures are needed for now, for this pandemic itself, with real incentives for now. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, decent careers are now needed. Full dedication is needed now, at this moment. They are measures to respond to the crisis, which we bring back the vote, and we call on the PS not to do again as yesterday, i.e. to join the vote on the right to prevent its implementation. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u7	I have the floor for an intervention on this article by Mrs Bebiana Cunha of the Parliamentary Group of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in 2008 there was a group of health professionals who, one day to the other, woke up without a career. They are specialized professionals, fundamental professionals in the National Health Service, in the most basic and elementary tasks they perform, often in the first line and in support of other health professionals. It was to health assistants who retired in 2008 and it is incomprehensible that in 2021 the right replacement of the career of these professionals is not initiated. In fact, see: we have a professional course as an assistant health technician — and well! — we have an RVCC (recognition, validation and certification of skills) as an auxiliary health technician — and well! — but then the expectations of these people, both of the young people who take a vocational course, both of the adults who have performed these essential functions in the National Health Service, are frustrated because there is no path, there is no career, there is no appreciation and dignity of these professionals. The NAP brought this proposal, which unfortunately was plummeted. Let us hope that today, in this discussion, the light will be different and that there will be an understanding of the other parties regarding the valorization and dignity of these professionals.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u9	For an intervention, Mr Luís Soares of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mr. Moses Ferreira, can't stand on both branches, we have to choose. Today, what we are discussing is the advance or retreat of the National Health Service and the Left Block has to choose whether you want to be next to the right, voting against a Budget that recovers the National Health Service, or whether you want to be next to the Government's proposal. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And we are going to the exclusive dedication, Mr, because it is a good example of this. The Socialist Party recognizes that measures are needed to attract and fix doctors. We agree and we brought a proposal to this House, but what did the Block do? He voted against, next to the right. Mr Member, this is what we want to know from the Left Block : if you are committed to the proposal of the State Budget, which continues to advance the National Health Service, or if you give up the Portuguese and the National Health Service...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u11	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u12	...and joins right to bring back the National Health Service. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u13	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I inform the House that we already have quorum for the votes. For an intervention, Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, more than palms, health workers need to be valued in the professional, social and wage levels, because it is fair, but also to create the conditions for professionals to want to develop their activity in the National Health Service. It was to this end that the CFP proposed the creation of an optional exclusive dedication scheme in two ways: with a 35 hour time and a 20 % increase, or with a 40 hour time, plus the payment of its 5 additional hours and a 40 % increase in the base remuneration. The number of doctors with exclusive dedication has been decreasing progressively in the SNS, but if this model existed many doctors would want to adhere to it. Although demotivated and not properly valued, health workers are present every day in health units, even at risk of contagion, to ensure the best care for all users. It is not with taxes that workers are motivated, but with the strengthening of their rights, with the improvement of working conditions. To insist, as the Government has insisted, on refusing the opening of a negotiating process to discuss careers, wages and working conditions is leading many workers not to pursue their activities in the National Health Service. Pushing the problems forward, as the PS has done, solves nothing, only contributes to its worsening. In absolutely central issues, the PS and the government, instead of moving forward with concrete solutions, which are now needed—to keep professionals in the SNS, to strengthen the SNS and to solve concrete problems—, choose to converge with the PSD, the CDS and its successors, political forces that have fundamentally intervened to discredit and destroy the National Health Service. The CFP has advocated this proposal. The PS has the opportunity to amend its hand, to make concrete progress towards the creation of an exclusive dedication regime and to take steps to strengthen the SNS. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u15	Mr Moisés Ferreira has the floor for a second speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u16	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Luís Soares, what we are going to vote on today are these two concrete proposals of the Left Block : the creation of the career of health assistant technician for the National Health Service in 2021 and the creation of a full dedication scheme in 2021, with a specific incentive scheme.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u17	That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u18	These are two proposals to attract professionals to the National Health Service, two proposals to strengthen the National Health Service, two proposals that health professionals require in the National Health Service and two proposals that the population supports. The question is this: in today's votes, will the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group support these proposals, standing up side by side of the Block to make the National Health Service move forward, or will it do as yesterday and stand on the right side to not allow this advance of the National Health Service? [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[PS MP Joana Lima's protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u19	For an intervention, Mr André Ventura, of the Arrival, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u20	Mr President, it is interesting to note what has been summed up in the parliamentary debate on health: two brides disavowed. The PS says the Block is standing next to the right, the Block says the PS is standing next to the left. The Block accuses the PS of being on the right, the PS accuses the Block of being on the right. And they don't understand the essence. But there was a curious fact, Mrs Paula Santos, who said that it was the successors of the PSD and CDS to discredit, destroy and undermine the National Health Service. I will remind you, Mrs Deputy, that it was not the Reach, not the Liberal Initiative, not the CDS, nor the PSD that approved an Budget that had captured EUR 500 million in health. It was the Portuguese Communist Party. It was not the Reach, nor the Liberal Initiative, nor the CDS, nor the PSD that approved a Budget that reduced primary health care in Portugal by more than 30 %, the PCP. [[Protests by PS MP Joana Lima and PCP MP Paula Santos.]] It was not the Reach, nor the Liberal Initiative, nor the PSD, nor the CDS that approved Budgets that led to debt in the National Health Service being greater than ever and not paid to private sector suppliers. [[PS MP Joana Lima's protests.]] It was not the Arrival that discredited the National Health Service, it was the four Budgets that VV. Ex. approved in this House and which led to the unfortunate state of health that we have today. Madam Member, it was not the CFP that approved four budgets of the Socialist Party and perhaps today we would have a much better country to respond to the crisis of the COVID-19. [[Protests from PCP MP Paula Santos.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u21	Mr. Deputy already speaks like the PSD! She's talking like the troika!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u22	Mr Luís Soares of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention. [[Protests by PCP Members Antonio Filipe and Paula Santos.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to make some silence so that Mr Luís Soares can begin his speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u23	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we know that there's still someone in this House looking for someone else to date. [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u24	We'll be there to see if the wedding takes place or not. I would like to refocus the debate to tell Mr. Moisés Ferreira that he did not clarify whether, after all, he intends to continue to advance the National Health Service, as in the last four years, or if he quit the SNS and the Portuguese, voting on the right side. I think the Portuguese are figuring out the way the Left Block wants to go. Mr President, this is very simple. Over the past four years, the Socialist Party Government has had more than 20,000 professionals. In the appreciation of careers we had the replacement of 35 hours, quality hours, extraordinary hours and all this was an advance for the appreciation of the National Health Service, for the valorization of our professionals. The Left Block, the Communist Party and the Socialist Party were able to build this, and there is no other answer, Mr. Do you want to continue in this direction or are we going to go back to the right-wing government that just cut off, also in the National Health Service? This is the answer we want from the Left Block, because we want to continue to count on all, but we already realize that from the Left Block, they want the backbone of the National Health Service. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u25	Mrs. Members, the Bureau no longer registers for interventions on the addition of Article 28. the -A and also do not record entries for interventions on the proposal 455 - C, submitted by BE, of addition to Article 37. o -A— Full dedication in the National Health Service. Thus, we proceed directly to the evaluation of the proposal 261 - C, submitted by the CDS-PP, of the addition of an article 41. o -A — Recovery of care activity. Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, from the CDS-PP, has the floor, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u26	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the CDS presented its proposal yesterday for the recovery of waiting lists in access to health care and this proposal was plunged by PS, PCP and Block. Today, I would like to bring you here some facts, in the hope that you will still be able to change your ideas — an empty hope, but let us try. In the SNS Transparency Portal it is verifiable, and in the government's own speech it is recognized, that there is a delay in consultations, examinations and surgeries which was prior to the pandemic and which worsened with it. I think there is no discussion about this, we all agree. The discussion now begins, because according to the technicians of the Court of Auditors, « the recovery of activity not performed by the COVID-19 pandemic... », and I am quoting, «... will have to occur in a context of additional care in clinical practice, with the risk of capacity installed in the SNS not sufficient to cope with this increase in demand without the marked increase in waiting times. Do not keep on seeking. ” They are also the health professionals themselves of the SNS, as well as the Order of Doctors, the former Bastonaries of the Medical Order, several specialists, and even the President of the Republic, who daily draw attention to the idea that at this time we should consider the health system and not only the National Health Service. I assume that they are all wrong and that only here, within doors, the government, the PS, the Block and the PCP are right. So let's see why they think they're right. The truth is that the proposal from the State budget to the SNS transfers only EUR 4 million to more than the proposal implemented in 2020. It is not I who say it, in fact, I say it, but, in fact, who corroborates it is UTAO ( Technical Unit for Budget Support ), which says that « the allocation for current transfers for SNS financing in 2021 is residually higher than the budget implementation in 2020. (...) In 2021, the planned allocation of current transfers to the SNS is higher by only EUR 4 million compared with the estimate for 2020. Do not keep on seeking. ” On the other hand, the health programme account for 2021, even before being approved, already has a negative balance of EUR 89 million. We have never heard of the task force to deal with the problems of non-COVID patients, who came in this Health Plan for Autumn-Winter 2020 - 2021, DGS (Direction-General of Health ), and also did not materialize in this State Budget, because in fact there is no single line in it on the recovery of care activity, meanwhile suspended again in several hospitals throughout the country, and the collection of an order from Mrs. Minister of Health. Therefore, the situation is this: appreciably with the same value as 2020, the year in which it increased the expectation and there was a suspension of the activity, you have no solution to solve the problem of access to Portuguese health. And when presented here by the CDS, a proposal within perfect reasonableness, because it complements and, to some extent, saves the SNS and exhaust its professionals, what do you decide? Chumbam-na! They lead her and decide nothing effectively. In fact, you, once again, let people wait. And wait, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there may be a death after all. Again, I am not saying that it is the National School of Public Health, which says, as to the explanation for the excess mortality that has occurred, that health services have reduced the level of care provided to acute and chronic patients without COVID-19 and that waiting remains plausible, i.e., waiting is an explanation for increased mortality. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, today, in the morning, fresh-headed, they have a new opportunity to give your fellow citizens a reply again, they have an opportunity to give a choice to those who, without money, have no insurance or have no ADSE, not having the same choice as many of us have here, have no other choice but to wait. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, with your vote today what you will be saying is not if you are going to transfer to the private, if you are going to give more money to the SNS, what you are going to be responding to is to one of your fellow citizens who has no alternative but to wait 1516 days for a cardiology consultation or who, again, has seen their consultation of suspended specialty or their CT scan (computated axial tomography) for suspended oncology screening. What are you going to tell him? What are you gonna be waiting for?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u27	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u28	Mrs. Members, there are no further entries for interventions on this article, so we will proceed to the evaluation of the proposal 1215 - C, submitted by the PSD, of the addition of Article 123. o -A — Community funds. Mr Cristovão Norte, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, is hereby inscribed. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u29	Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, I sometimes wonder whether you know what is going on in the Algarve and whether any of you are facing the possibility of intervening in the economic and social tragedy that is occurring in one of the regions most affected by the crisis in Europe. Algarve has, in homologous terms, an increase in unemployment of about 200 % and a dominating failure.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u30	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u31	Algarve is in mourning and expects that the specific emergency programme that the Government has promised in July, and that the President of the Republic has taken up as a national plan, to be translated into the State budget. But it doesn't. We have outlined the State Budget and, from one end to the other, there is not remotely any trace of a program of this nature. And the Algarve has the added difficulty of not having access to a set of Community funds, such as the ERDF ( European Regional Development Fund ) and the European Social Fund, to a large extent. Therefore, it is imperative that you support a proposal to guarantee more EUR 300 million for the region, not in 2027, but today, when this dark moment is fought, to ensure responses to entrepreneurs, to ensure responses to workers and ultimately to ensure that this region, which is one of the most devastated by the crisis in Europe, can become something else that is not a lot of ruins. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u32	To speak on this article, Mr Luís Graça, of the PS, is also inscribed. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u33	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the proposal that the PSD brings to this House, to negotiate with the European Commission that Algarve, a phasing-out region, becomes a convergence region has no support on any legal basis of the rules and rules of Community negotiation. In fact, that is why the PSD Members in the European Parliament never presented it when the financial packages were negotiated for the 27 Member States. Mr, the truth is that the PSD, when it negotiated the current Community fund in 2011, gave the Algarve 300 million euros. But what we are going to have in the next Community support framework, as a result of the negotiation of PS and Prime Minister Antonio Costa, is an additional specific fund of EUR 300 million, to be added to the EUR 400 million of the Community framework to be managed by the Algarve. This is more than twice what you left!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u34	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u35	Mr President, this State budget includes the water efficiency plan for the Algarve, so that we have an investment of EUR 200-400 million to guarantee water in quantity and quality in the future. This State budget includes the electrification of the Algarve railway line and the acquisition of rolling stock. This State Budget includes the new head office of the Faro Judicial Police and the new university residence of the University of Algarve. This State Budget includes the new Alcoutim-Sanlúcar Bridge. This State budget includes the funds for the most likely rescue of national road No 125. This State budget includes the funds for the new discount of the A22 tolls. This State budget includes the 100% layoff money on a PS proposal to ensure the productive capacity of Algarve companies and the income of families and workers. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This State Budget guarantees the funds to implement the PPP (public-private partnership) of the new central hospital of the University of Algarve. And you know, honourable Member, this State budget will count on your vote against. These works and measures in favour of the Algarve will have their vote against and the vote against the PSD. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u36	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that, at this stage, only 60 Members will be present in the Chamber. But we've made a quick count and you're more gentlemen. Members in the Chamber. I therefore ask the various parliamentary groups to organize themselves in order to comply with what was the decision of the Conference of Leaders and of the Bureau of the Assembly of the Republic. Mr Cristovão Norte, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u37	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Luís Graça, the State budget has some of these things, not all of them, but one of those that does not count is with the central hospital of the Algarve. You may try to twist the facts and numbers, but you will never find that inscription in the State budget. What the State Budget certainly does not have is an emergency plan for the Algarve, a plan which guarantees the survival of companies and workers and which saves the Algarve of this nightmare that has fallen upon it and for which the Government has taken promises before the algarves, and has so far not fulfilled any, although the President of the Republic has pointed out that it was a national plan to find a specific emergency programme for the Algarve, to save jobs until the middle of next year. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u38	Mr Luís Graça of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u39	Mr President, Mr Cristovão Norte, I do not think you have read the State budget. The Algarve Central Hospital is part of the Great Plan Options as a government target for 2021. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] And I will explain to you why there is no individualized money in the State budget. It is because, Mr, it is about recovering a PPP that was created in 2008 and suspended in 2011. [[Protests by PSD member Cristovão Norte.]] And there is no reason right now to put an individualized money in the State budget because we are talking about the needs of public funds that are currently residual in the face of an investment of more than EUR 300 million. Sir, read the Budget and be serious! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u40	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us turn to the general government budget and leave the magnificent Algarve region with little time for some parliamentary groups. The assessment of the proposal 1368 - C, submitted by the NAP, of addition, to the proposed law, of Article 136, is then followed. o -A — Revert support to eucalyptus planting. Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u41	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the government, it is well known to all of us the impact that extensive eucalyptus plantations have on large forest fires. If we look only at last year's data, there were more than 10 000 forest fires, which corresponded to 41,000 ha of burned area. If we go back in time, this is multiplying, with devastating effects on our forest and also on biodiversity. However, and although eucalyptus plantations are an undeniable propagation factor, none of this has been taken into account, particularly in the State Budget. successive governments, from right to left, have waged a completely wrong policy in relation to the forest and have done little to promote more sustainable forest management based on the reforestation and replanting of indigenous species. And, worse, financial support measures are more generous in terms of eucalyptus planting than, for example, the planting of oak and other fundamental species to ensure a forest based not only on monoculture but also more resistant and that can in some way also protect our populations and biodiversity itself. in this sense, words are not enough, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. What we saw yesterday, with the rejection, in committee by the PS, the PS, the CDS-PP and the CH, of the NAP proposal precisely aimed at reversing the issue of support and the paradigm of our forests, is in some way contributing to the lack of protection of the populations. We were not talking about strengthening the State budget, but, yes, reverse the paradigm and giving more for the protection of the indigenous forest and less for the eucalyptus. Today, the Members and the Members. Members have the opportunity to choose which side they want to be, whether on the side of industry and the business of paper or on the side of the protection of our forests, our population and biodiversity. Therefore, they can vote and follow up on this proposal from the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u42	I now give the floor to Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Greens.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u43	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, this proposal from the NAP, which aims to reverse the support for eucalyptus planting, favouring the incentive to plant native trees, can represent, in our perspective, an excellent contribution to strengthening the enormous effort that the Greens have made, in the past legislature, when we were able to establish the new legal regime of trees and re-arboring, which they had, and has, as a great objective, put a brake on the liberalisation of the eucalyptus. In fact, at a time when the country urgently needs the implementation of concrete measures that are effective in mitigating climate change, but also in the adaptation aspect of climate change, it is not understood that support for eucalyptus planting continues to be given priority and, above all, after what we have seen in recent years in terms of forest fires. But this proposal from the NAP is also linked to another proposal from the Greens, in particular the proposal for the start-up and control of spontaneous growth eucalyptuses, because there are many areas in our country that are becoming a genuine barrel of powder, with unavoidable consequences. To halt this environmental catastrophe, where virtually all seeds end up germinate in the space of one year, it is necessary to start the trees next to the root and not just to cut off at the base of the trunk, because only in that way are new bursts impossible. And so the Greens presented this proposal for the creation of support for the start-up of the eucalyptus. However, the NAP's proposal is linked to two more Green proposals: on the one hand, to the need to transfer native plants to small owners and, on the other hand, to the proposal that it intends to put an end to support for intensive and superintensive crops, be it olive, be it almond, be it eucalyptal. In fact, it makes no sense that these cultures are receiving support, particularly under the CAP (Common Agricultural Policy), through the first or the second pillar, when these CAP pillars, both the first and the second, are intended precisely to promote sustainable crops, with environmental benefits, with respect to the protection of the environment, the landscape, natural resources, the soil and the saving of water. In other words, they are meant to be exactly the opposite of what results from these intensive cultures. The Greens therefore propose the end of intensive and superintensive crops, whether olive, or almond, or eucalyptal.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u44	There is no longer any inscription for interventions on this article. Let us turn to Article 149. o — Civil protection and firefighter training missions. Mr António Filipe of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u45	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members, the CFP has invoked Article 149. the, which concerns the financing of firefighters, humanitarian associations of firefighters, more precisely. No one can ignore the crucial role that humanitarian firefighters' associations always play, but especially at the moment we are crossing. And no one can also ignore the increased costs that the situation of the epidemic we are facing implies for the humanitarian associations of firefighters, in addition to the very significant loss of revenue that firefighters have had in what is one of their main sources of funding, which is, in fact, the transport of non-emergency patients. It follows that the reference budget for this State budget for firefighters of EUR 28 million is equal to the initial 2020 budget, which ignores the strengthening of EUR 7 million that was approved in the Supplementary Budget for that same year. This means, by maintaining this EUR 28 million funding, a real decrease in the public funding of firefighters. However, it happens that—to have only one comparison term—while the State budget invests or intends to invest EUR 28 million for all the humanitarian associations of firefighters in the country, the City Council of Lisbon invests EUR 48 million for its municipal firefighters. This is unacceptable! The State cannot continue to lack its responsibilities for humanitarian firefighters associations, and in this sense the CFP proposed a significant increase in funding in Article 149. the, in addition to continuing to propose the so-called 'green gas oil' for firefighters, which would effectively enable the financial burden to be alleviated by humanitarian firefighters' associations every year without the necessary financial contribution from the State to support these activities. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u46	Mr. André Ventura, from arrive, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u47	Thank you very much, Mr President. Of course, it will accept and follow the CFP in this requirement, which is more than fundamental. We have today a situation in which 85% of the transport of VOCID patients is done by firefighters—85%, without any subsidy or support for VOCID, I repeat, 85%! Five days ago we had absolutely no money fire companies, as was the case of Amares, widely reported in the country. And if Mr António Filipe has set an example—and good! — from the Chamber of Lisbon, we could give another one, Mr President : while there are 28 million for firefighters, the House of Lisbon will spend with the Web Summit virtual 11 million, almost half of this value for a virtual summit, paid and you don't know why. But firefighters are entitled to EUR 28 million. [[PS Deputy Luís Soares Protests.]] This is the true reference value that I would like to see the Socialist Party Member here comment — Budget after Budget, since 2015, the PS says it will strengthen the firefighters of this country and, when the right time comes, we always stay in the same. Indeed, as Mr António Filipe said, the reference value is the same as last year as it was three, four years ago. And what is not understood is that, in one of the major demands of the CFP, the CFP will then come to the hands of the socialist budget when it comes to an end.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u48	You might convince your comrades!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u49	There are no more entries for this article. In order to intervene on the proposal 1219 - C of the NAP, an addition to Article 154. a -A — Strategic environmental assessment for the new airport of Lisbon, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u50	Good morning, Mr. President. This article is about environmental counterparts. in this economic crisis, we understand that the solutions to be adopted for a new paradigm cannot go by rescuing polluting companies without the minimum of environmental balances. TAP ( Portuguese Air Transport ), a largely Portuguese company and one of the most polluting companies in the country can and should be rescued, but it is not acceptable that this is without minimal environmental balances: a plan to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, in addition to a more efficient fleet at the level of consumption, which could well pass through the introduction of green fuels. That's what we propose. We give the Socialist Party and the Portuguese Communist Party a new chance to vote in favour of proposal 1219 - C.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u51	Mrs. Members of the Bureau shall record two entries for proposal 673 - C of the ENP which shall be added to Article 155. o -A— Recovery of the Pinhal of Leiria. The first inscription is of Mrs Mariana Silva, of the ENP to whom I give the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u52	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the Greens advocate the proposal for the recovery of Pinhal de Leiria because we believe that the investment which was approved yesterday unanimously on a proposal from the Greens cannot be materialised if it is not equipped with the necessary human resources. The National Forest of Leiria has suffered one of the greatest disasters that there is memory of in the Portuguese forest, when it remained with more than 80% of its burned area. Following this calamity, there was a national consensus to recover and preserve the National Forest of Leiria, as a monumental interest not only for the region, but for the whole country. Yesterday, although convergence has been achieved to approve the ENP proposal, which provides for progress in this recovery, the small step is taken, which is to ensure the strengthening of human means of intervention in that forest area, so that the planned programmes and projects of reforestation of Pinhal de Leiria can be carried out. And so today's vote gives us another opportunity for the ladies and gentlemen. Members reflect on the importance that human resources, such as nature watchers, technicians, forest skiers, forest guards and guards, have in the recovery, protection and preservation of biodiversity throughout the territory. It's been three years. Just a brief passage into the territory where there were millions of pine trees before, to realize that it is urgent to re-aborb that Pinhal, which is vital to accelerate the revitalization of that green lung, with historical, cultural, environmental, social and economic roots. The Greens took as their contribution to the State Budget of 2021 the appreciation and preservation of the environment. They will not give up this battle in the middle.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u53	You now have the floor by the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr João Dias.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u54	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members, yesterday a proposal from the CFP was rejected which also responded to the need for the reforestation of Pinhal de Leiria, even though it was not responsible for the dislocation, for the abandonment, for the disinvestment that the successive Governments of PSD, CDS and PS, also in what is the recovery of Pinhal de Leiria, which should be a national example. It is of the most elementary justice that is recovered and that the money that the Mata generates is fully invested in its recovery. It is in this sense that the CFP understands that the recovery, reforestation and enhancement of the National Lawn Plant must be considered as a structure for the mobilization of adequate financial and human resources in order to respond to this design. However, much remains to be done. It is even necessary for the State to set an example of one of the most important forest heritages, which is of all Portuguese and, in particular, of the population of the Leiria region. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u55	In order to intervene on the proposal 899 - C of the PSD, an addendum to Article 157. o -A — Support for energy expenditure by farmers, Mr João Gomes Marques has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u56	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members, the PSD, with its proposed amendment and with budgetary responsibility, intends to support national agriculture, pointing out the overall support of up to EUR 5 million for reducing energy costs. The support provided for by application amounts to a maximum of 30 % of the average value of the electricity bill settled over the last three years, solely for agricultural or livestock production. Therefore, the position of the Socialist Party is not perceived, since this measure will not have unbearable costs for the Budget and will certainly have many benefits for the economy by supporting the sector that feeds the Country. Nor is it perceived the position of the CFP, which in June, in the Supplementary Budget, presented a similar proposal, which deserved the support of the Social Democratic Party. Certainly, the PS and the Portuguese Communist Party, by rejecting this proposal from the Social Democratic Party, show the little or no consideration that Portuguese farmers deserve them. Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the PS and the Portuguese Communist Party now have a new opportunity to correct themselves by voting in favour of the PSD proposal. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u57	Let us turn to proposal 199 - C of the IL of Article 175. o -A - Portal for transparency in the process of implementing the European Funds. Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u58	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, until 2027, Portugal will receive more than EUR 15 billion of grants, still have access to EUR 10 billion of loans and this adds the Plurianual Financial Framework, which will exceed EUR 25 billion of loans as well. That is, in the coming years, and to take advantage of this absolutely unique opportunity so that these investments do not end up fattening public debt without benefit for the country, Portugal will have to evaluate, decide, execute and monitor the double or triple of the projects that it has done so far every year. This would advise the government to think about how to have a different governance for these funds, a government that was more imaginative and that would ensure that the business ideas for that country outside could benefit from support. The government has chosen to maintain exactly the same model of governance and is waiting, with the same model, for different results — does not hope for anything good. But since it maintains the governance model, it could at least try to increase the transparency of the implementation of the funds. That is why we have proposed, and today we advocate, the proposal to set up the transparency portal for the implementation of the European funds. It is not the portal that exists on the website of the Agency for Development and Cohesion (AD & C), which has almost 50 000 lines of projects that cannot be researched, cannot be understood and do not contain the minimum of relevant information. The portal we propose contains not only the amounts and promoters, but also the effective beneficiaries of these promoters, the suppliers of these projects, the partners of these projects, the financial and economic objectives of these projects, the timetable in which these objectives should be achieved and a way to monitor and monitor this execution in as real time as possible. This portal would also have to have free access, easy understanding and a data extraction that would be, if not automatic, at least automated. This was plunged yesterday in committee by the parties on the left and with the incomprehensible abstention of the PSD. We want to give these parties a new chance and we want to realize here in plenary so that everyone can see who is afraid of transparency in the use of Portuguese money when it comes to European funds.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u59	Mr André Silva of the NAP has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u60	Mr President, we welcome this proposal from the Liberal Initiative on the transparency portal. As for the sectarianism of others, we have nothing to say, we voted, and today we are again voting in favour. But, Mr President, the Liberal Initiative is advocating something that has already been approved on Monday. We are talking about a portal of transparency on which the NAP came to report, in August this year, that it would propose the same measure. It was realized in the State budget, it was approved on Monday. It seems to me that he is speaking precisely on something that is fundamental, but that we have already planned and approved, a portal for the transparency of European funds, which in real time presents, in particular, the measures and projects supported, its budgetary cost, its territorial scope, the number of beneficiaries,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u61	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u62	... the beneficiary entities, the award criteria and their degree of implementation. This was approved on Monday, therefore, this appeal is redundant.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u63	Mr. André Ventura, from arrive, has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u64	Mr President, Mr. André Silva has managed to bring here the obvious, which is the fact that the Socialist Party has brought here the project of the transparency portal, which is apparently redundant with that of the Liberal Initiative, and has voted against that of the Liberal Initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u65	On the contrary!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u66	Or on the contrary! He would say the same thing about any other project and he would well show such negotiations that you have had with the Socialist Party on this matter. This is because you are saying that Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo should not have brought here something that is redundant and that is already approved, only shows one thing: they voted against yesterday. But how do you vote in favour of yours and against one that is absolutely equal and that you say it is redundant? This only shows how well this has been designed, cooked and how it will be approved at the end.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u67	Ours is better!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u68	But, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, I would not be very surprised, because the Socialist Party, who voted against this portal of transparency, with the support of the extreme left, is the same as allowing the removal of the President of the Court of Auditors ; it is the same that did not allow the previous visa of the Court of Auditors to be added again in a series of executions and invitations to be made here. So I wouldn't be too worried about that. All the proposals that were put forward in this discussion of the Budget by the Arrival—and also by the Liberal Initiative, the PSD and the CDS—for the reintroduction of the visa by the Court of Auditors have been dropped by the left and that is what will be left on the transparency of this Budget.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u69	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, there are no more entries for interventions on this article. We moved on to Article 180. o -A and proposal 931 - C of the PSD. Mr António Maló de Abreu, from the PSD, has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u70	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the PSD regrets having been obliged to make this appeal. Having a gesture and giving the hand to millions of Portuguese people, we proposed an emergency plan, reducing waiting times to kill those who wait and those who despair. This year and until now, in addition to the deaths by COVID, which are, in itself, a tragedy, the tragedy of the death of, for now, 6000 Portuguese to more than the average of the last five years. I look at you and the Portuguese look at you more and more, with no irony and no eyes left. But we don't cross our arms! So let's make it clear. by voting against our proposal they have revealed insensibility; by voting against our proposal to save lives they reveal the breakdown of the state to which they have arrived; by voting against our proposal to bring more hope to the patients they reveal the sectarianism of a coalition without direction or compassion; by voting against our proposal to leave no one behind they reveal how the great catastrophes dispense small leaderships; by voting against our proposal they reveal themselves and reveal to the Portuguese, for future memory, they are not at the height of the unique and painful moment that this nation lives. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u71	With no further entries for intervention regarding this article as regards this appeal, we will turn to Article 190. o -A. For the Government, Mr. Secretary of State for Health Diogo Serras Lopes has the floor. Please, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u72	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I cannot help but say that the State budgets, at least those of recent years since 2016, have not only strengthened the SNS in more than EUR 2000 million—as, in fact, has already been said and is easily proven, as has been said repeatedly—as there has been no capitulation in the SNS, which is, in fact, law, not even an issue. On the other hand, and with regard to the debt of the SNS, including late payments, it is at the lowest level in terms of counterparts—i.e. comparing October with the various previous Octobers, since this debt is of course somewhat seasonally— provided that there is a record of late payments in the SNS, i.e. since 2012. Therefore, none of these charges have any basis. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Cecilia Meireles.]] With regard to the full dedication and what has been discussed in this House now, the full dedication by choice is present in the Health Bases Act, which was consensualized and approved in this Parliament, is present in the XXII Constitutional Government Programme and is also present in the State Budget Act for 2020. Full dedication by choice is a path that is taken by this government, also in the context of the introduction of new organizational models, which guarantee, above all, that the productivity of the health professionals of the SNS is the greatest and that, finally, they allow better health care to the Portuguese. This full dedication is a path that the government wants to implement, is in our Programme and certainly has all our work and all our support. Of course, and I cannot but say this, this amendment requires negotiations and a fairly broad consensus also with health professionals themselves. The pandemic context will not eventually be the best time for this negotiation to take place with the tranquility that is necessary. It will, of course, continue to be an objective and we all hope that 2021 will be the year in which it effectively takes place. Regarding the topic of care activity, and I quote again the Basics Law, the private sector and the social sector have an additional character in the Health Bases Law, as we all know. At no time does Portuguese health care cease to be a priority for this government. This is visible in the SIGIC (Integrated System of Management of Inscriptions for Surgery ), it is visible in programs such as the conventions of complementary means of diagnosis and therapy, it is visible in the conventions that were created at the time of the onset of the pandemic, both for CVID patients and for non-COVID patients, and that are, in fact, after they have not been fortunately necessary, in March and April, to review the conditions, to be used in a clear manner where necessary at this time. Therefore, the care issue is absolutely essential for us, we are recovering from the delays that have been caused by the pandemic and we will continue to recover from them, using all the means at our disposal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u73	With no further entries for intervention, we shall proceed to the vote, as is provided for in the script.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u74	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u75	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u76	Mr President, please just give us a minute so that we can make the amendments here on the bench so that we can be available for the votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u77	Mr President, as you know, voting is done by the bank, so there is no big problem. In addition, there is already more than enough quorum, so if you don't mind, we will even move forward with the votes. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let us therefore proceed with the vote. We shall vote on proposal 383 - C, tabled by the Left Block, to add an article 28. o -A — Creating a career as an auxiliary health technician. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, Non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD, CDS-PP, CH and IL.]] We turn to the vote on proposal 455 - C, tabled by the Left Block, to add Article 37. o -A— Full dedication in the National Health Service. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP, CH and IL and votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected.]] We proceed with the vote on proposal 261 - C, tabled by the CDS-PP, to add Article 41. o -A — Recovery of care activity. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected, votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the CH and the IL and the abstention of the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues.]] Let us now vote on proposal 1215 - C, submitted by the PSD, to add an article 123. o -A — Community funds. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the CH and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and abstains from BE, the PCP, the ENP, the IL and the non-registered Vice-President Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We shall proceed to the vote on proposal 1368 - C, tabled by the NAP, on the addition of Article 136. o -A — Revert support to eucalyptus planting. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP and CH were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and IL abstention.]] We shall vote on proposal 1393 - C submitted by the CFP, in the part in which Article 149 ( 2 ) is amended. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstention from CH.]] We shall vote on the same proposal, tabled by the CFP at 1393 - C, in the part in which Article 149 (3) is amended. The proposal of the law.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u78	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u79	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u80	Mr President, in the script are the numbers of the bill to be voted on, we have two votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u81	But they've been scrapped from the vote script...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u82	Mr President, we have to vote on the whole script, subject to different votes and different results.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u83	So, to avoid confusion, we will vote on Article 149 (2). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PS, votes against the PCP and the ENP and abstentions against the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira were adopted.]] We are now voting on proposal 1393 - C, tabled by the CFP, in the part in which Article 149 (3) is amended. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD and IL and votes against BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected.]] Like what we have done before, we shall then proceed to the vote on Article 149 ( 3 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PS, votes against the PCP and the ENP and abstentions against the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira were adopted.]] We move on to proposal 1219 - C of the NAP to add Article 154. o -A — Environmental counterparts TAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u84	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u85	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u86	Mr President, as we did yesterday in the Commission, I would like to ask for the breakdown of the vote of paragraphs 1 and 2 of the proposal of this Article 154. o -A.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u87	Let us therefore begin by voting Article 154 ( 1 ). o -A contained in proposal 1219 - C, of the NAP. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and IL were rejected in favour of the CDS-PP, the PAN, the ENP and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from PSD, BE, PCP and CH.]] We are now voting on paragraph 2 of the same article. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, ENP, CH and IL and votes against the NAP and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected.]] The proposal is followed by a proposal of 673 - C of the ENP for the addition of Article 155. o -A— Recovery of the Pinhal of Leiria.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u88	Mr President, may I use the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u89	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u90	Mr President, for example what happened yesterday in the Commission's office, we asked for the breakdown of the vote on Article 155 (3). o -A.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u91	Let us then begin by voting Article 155 ( 3 ). o -A contained in proposal 673 - C, of the ENP. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD and CDS-PP abstentions.]] We shall proceed to vote on paragraphs 1 and 2 of this same article. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] We shall now vote on the proposal 899 - C of the PSD for the addition of Article 157. o -A — Support for energy expenditure by farmers. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected and votes against the PS, CDS-PP, CH and IL.]] The vote was followed by the vote on proposal 199 - C of the Liberal Initiative, adding Article 175. o -A - Portal for transparency in the process of implementing the European Funds. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against PS and abstentions from the PCP and the ENP.]] We shall proceed to the vote on the proposal 971 - C of the PSD for the addition of Article 180. o -A— Reduction of waiting times for surgeries, consultations, treatments and diagnoses. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the ENP were rejected, votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP, the CH and the IL and abstentions against the NAP and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira.]] Finally, we shall proceed to the vote on proposal 330 - C of the CFP, amending Article 190. o -A— Exclusive dedication in the National Health Service. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP, CH and IL and votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected.]] We therefore conclude the vote on the rules adopted by the plenary. We move on to the third item on the agenda, which is the continuation of the discussion in the speciality of the Bill No 61 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Approves the State budget for 2021. The benches now have one minute to proceed with the amendments they understand, provided that no more than 50 Members remain in the Chamber. In the meantime, I ask Vice-President Fernando Negrão to replace me, which I am very grateful for. [[At the moment, Vice-President Fernando Negrão took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u92	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government. By continuing to work, we will begin with Article 196. o — Programme to support tariff reduction in public transport. Mrs Isabel Pires of the Left Block has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u93	Mr President, may I use the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u94	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u95	Mr President, I would like to thank my colleague, but there are parliamentary groups that have tabled amendments to this article of the bill, so I believe that, on behalf of this primacy, they should be using the word in the first place rather than the Left Block. However, if Mr President understands that it must be the Left Block that uses the word in the first place, on our part it is all right.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u96	I understand, Mr, but the only inscription we have right now is that of Mrs Isabel Pires. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u97	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PART(Public Transport Tariff Support Programme) has been and is a structural programme that has and has had a very positive impact in particular because the tariff reduction has indisputably strengthened the use of public transport, removing cars from our cities, and has also helped family income. That is why the strengthening of the CAP money above what is foreseen by the Government is important and we follow these proposals. However, we consider that the Government does not yet take into account the information in the assessment report of the PART, which provides important clues about the difficulties encountered, especially by the inter-municipal communities ( CIM ). Therefore, if the impact of the pandemic is expected to last a long time and if it is already known, for example, that inter-municipal communities, in addition to needing more money, need to change the rules, we believe it is important to start predicting changes to the eligibility criteria, which have difficulty in the work of the inter-municipal and local communities with less density. For this reason, we will follow up with all the proposals that are going towards strengthening the PART and public transport. However, the scale of the crisis we are going through would require a budget with a more robust dimension in this area too, where the government does the least. We believe that it is necessary to go further to combat the inequalities and difficulties that are still living in the PART, but also to respond better to the crisis that we are going through and to give more security to the populations. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u98	Mr Bruno Dias of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u99	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, it is essential that public transport function properly and have the necessary means to serve the populations. The tariff reduction, because we fought so much, was a victory, an extraordinary achievement, which has to be defended with the guarantee of the supply of transport. This requires the corresponding financing, from the outset, by compensating revenue breaks in the transport system. There must be certain accounts and a serious and rigorous basis for transport financing. It's not enough to say everything's gonna be okay and wait for the recipes to show up. The Budget must respond to people's needs. Therefore, we propose the strengthening of funds in the PART and also in the PROTransP(Prosupport Programme for the Densification and Strengthening of the Public Transportation Offer) to ensure the supply of transport, not only in the metropolitan areas but in all regions, from north to south of the country. We propose the extension of the free transport regime for children and young people and the lowest prices from 65 years of age. We propose the establishment of the passenger road transport operator with the status of a public enterprise and a national authority. It is necessary to end the situation of genuine abandonment to which populations have been condemned over the years, particularly within the country. They are concrete proposals from the CFP for the budget to respond effectively and effectively to the country's public transport problems as well. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u100	Mr Hugo Oliveira, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u101	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members, the report of the IMT ( Institute for Mobility and Transport ) on the implementation of the public policy of the PART indicates that the 23 metropolitan areas or inter-municipal communities have joined the programme. The value submitted by the ART was EUR 116 million, reaching a national implementation rate of around 90 %, and the transport authorities returned around EUR 13 million to the Environmental Fund. Only four transport authorities have executed 100 % or more, so 19 of them will have to return the money. It is clear that the rational allocation of the funds to the transport authorities by reducing tariffs or by compensating the public service must be amended. For example, of the 140 % implementation of the Western CIS, much more than 50 % correspond to flows with the Lisbon Metropolitan Area, accentuated by the diplomas establishing the definition of the allocation, financing and compensation procedures for key transport operators within the framework of the COVID-19. Our proposed addition aims to create a mechanism to ensure the strengthening of inter-municipal communities where the financial implementation rate of the funds transferred by the PART and the PROTransP, plus the mandatory participation of municipalities, is more than 100 %, redirecting for this purpose the funds resulting from the unexecuted balances provided for in those programmes. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u102	Mr André Pinotes Batista, from the PS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u103	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let me start by greeting you all. The left cannot question what the left has conquered. It is, therefore, natural that we see that we are all more eager to promote public transport, that we are all more eager to decarbonise the economy. But it's a bit of a shock, sirs. Members of the banks to the left of the PS, who tell you that not to recognize what the right has so criticized, not to recognize the achievement that it represented in the increase of passengers, in the decarbonization of the economy, in the mobilization of efforts to move from words to acts in our environmental transition to a more sustainable policy, is something that is very strange to the left and is, in fact, a very dangerous path, until we are discussing an issue in which there is an effective strengthening of this Programme of Support for Tariff Reduction. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is also very important to point out that, in one of the issues that have been focused on, in particular, the pandemic situation we are going through, there are EUR 30 million that are planned, in addition to the reinforcement I have already mentioned, to address these needs. Mr Bruno Dias can say today 'no' with his head to what, in the past, and very well, said 'yes'. What we cannot hear is an intervention which is read without soul, which is said without reason and which is carried, in fact, in absolute contradiction, with what the right defends. Mrs. Members, I end with a very simple notion: the achievements we have made in terms of public transport in Portugal in the last five years are remarkable. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group and the Government make good use of your words. However, we cannot understand how you come here to question something that we have achieved and, even more, a structured policy in which we simultaneously stimulate the fall in the tariff and at the same time supply.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u104	That's falsehood! That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u105	It is very important to be honest with the Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u106	That's falsehood!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u107	Strengthening this programme is essential in promoting public transport and it would be very important for the Left Block and the PCP not to leave us alone in this battle. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u108	Mr. Secretary of State for Mobility, Eduardo Pinheiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u109	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, as mentioned above, ended 2019 and we launched 2020 with great optimism regarding the evolution of the number of collective transport users. With the implementation of the ART, which was also mentioned and recognised here, in 2019 we saw a very substantial increase in demand of almost 20 %. As a result, there was an increase in the 2020 budget of EUR 138 million in the amount of revenue to be allocated, essentially. With these data, we could only anticipate sustained growth in the search for collective public passenger transport. We arrived on 18 March 2020 and we all know what happened. on that day, for the first time, it was declared the state of emergency throughout the national territory and, depending on the restrictions, which, of course, was necessary to implement one day to the other, we had a very wide reduction in the demand for public public passenger transport, in many cases exceeding 80 % — everyone in this room knows the data. But this did not mean the end of public transport, the ambition that existed before continued. Yes, of course, we had a reduction in demand, but there was a need to maintain the supply. And when I speak on offer, an appropriate offer, I refer not only to protected companies but also to private operators of public passenger transport. Of course, we help ourselves from the instruments available. And I say, if we didn't have the PART, if we didn't have the ProTransP, what would it be like? To this end, the PART played a decisive role, as I said: it allowed us, quickly, to make financial resources available to the transport authorities in a timely and consistent manner. Therefore, if at the end of 2019 and at the beginning of 2020, as I said, the added value of the PART, in relation to the increase in demand, was more than widely recognized, in view of a new circumstance this instrument became agile and indispensable to meet the new challenges, in particular to ensure adequate levels of supply. In the present budget proposal, the amount allocated to the TAP is now about EUR 230 million, i.e. an increase of 65 % compared to the 2020 budget. This instrument, given, at least, with distrust, at least by some, as has already been said here, is difficult to question at present. Moreover, some parliamentary groups—have already had the opportunity to say so here—accompani us in the need to strengthen the offer that has been presented. Moreover, some parliamentary groups, which have already spoken here, follow up and even propose the increase of this money to ensure a greater supply, arguing with the unpredictable times we are living in. Of course, I cannot fail to mention two questions. On the one hand, in view of the legitimacy of the unpredictability argument, which we all recognize, because these are the times we are living in, I cannot help but remember that we are strengthening this amount by 65 %, which is therefore over EUR 90 million. On the other hand, I also say, in view of the unpredictability, in view of all the arguments and the concern not to let the PART fall, which was so important to all of us, that, recognizing that public transport is the backbone of the entire mobility system, recognizing us that it is and that it will continue to be, we will do everything so that the PART is the instrument capable of giving that answer and that it is also equipped and able to face the difficulties that we will have throughout 2021. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u110	We now move on to the proposal by the PS to add Article 197. o -A — Amendment to the social tariff regime relating to the provision of water services. Mr. Ricardo Leon has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u111	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members, under Decree-Law No 147 / 2017, the Government has established a set of initiatives related to the protection of consumers in situations of economic shortage and low incomes. thus, it is established a regime that allows the application of social tariffs, whether in its own way or through its multi-municipal systems, to assign to its municipalities, and that allows to ensure their water supply. However, there are situations in which the holder of supply is not the municipalities, nor the respective multi-municipal systems, but, yes, companies owned by the State, as is good example the municipality of Lisbon and EPAL itself ( Portuguese Free Waters Company ), in which the revenues of these tariffs and other revenues revert to these companies and not to municipalities. Therefore, this amendment that the PS Parliamentary Group has precisely clarified and revised these situations, so that, in these cases, it is the central State to assume this tariff differential, since these municipalities, in these cases, do not have any intervention or revenue with the supply of water. More important than that, this amendment also allows for greater coverage and significantly increases the number of people to whom these tariffs can be applied, so important for many at this difficult time that we all live. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u112	We now move on to the proposal by the ENP to add Article 196. o -A — Strategic environmental assessment to assess better options at airport level. Mrs. Sandra Cunha from the Left Block has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u113	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, everyone knows that the Lisbon + 1 decision, with the extension of Portela airport and the construction of an airport in Montijo, is a solution of interest, because it is the cheapest and most profitable option for Vinci, which does not mean that it is the best for the country. Everyone knows that this was the reason for the government's foothold not to make the strategic environmental assessment, an assessment required by law that would allow the comparison between locations. The quality of life and the health of the population, as well as the protection of the Tejo estuary, one of the most important in Europe, which should be key parts for decision-making on behalf of the country's strategic interest, were of no value against the will of a foreign private company. After saying that the decision is taken and that there is no plan B, the government has now gone back. In the budgetary debate, Minister Pedro Nuno Santos admitted to making the strategic environmental assessment. You've won judgment, all right. We shall vote in favour of all the proposals in this regard. But at the moment, the Government must do more than a declaration of intent and ensure that all options for airport management in the Lisbon region remain open. The only strategic environmental assessment that was made on the location of the new Lisbon airport compared Ota with the Alcochete Shooting Camp and the environmental impact declaration chose Alcochete as the best option. This environmental impact statement expires next December 9. Its duration must be extended because this is the only way to ensure that decisions are transparent and that public interest is protected. And for that reason, the Left Block will also deliver a project with this objective. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u114	I now give the floor to Mr José Luís Ferreira of the ENP, who is the author of this initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u115	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in January 2019, as everyone will certainly remember, the government signed an agreement with Vinci that left the country perplexed, since it was undertaking a commitment to the construction of a new airport in Montijo without even completing the ongoing environmental impact assessment. From here is the clear perception, among other issues, of a demand for influence in relation to the result of the environmental impact assessment and therefore a deep disrespect for this environmental policy instrument. After that, this decision did not solve any of the problems that were intended to be solved with the construction of a new airport in Lisbon : it does not solve long-term airport problems, nor does it even solve the problem of Humberto Delgado Airport, which is going to continue in Lisbon, when exactly what was intended to remove the airport from the city of Lisbon. Moreover, the decision on the location of an infrastructure as important as an airport was not guided by the public interest, but by the interests of those who chose the location, i.e. multinational Vinci. Now, if it was Vinci who chose the location, do it in view of his own interests and not the public interest, as, indeed, you well perceive. Therefore, what the Greens want with this proposal is first of all to bring the public interest to a decision which must be taken on the basis of its importance for the development of the country, but also to give the Government an opportunity to solve a number of problems ahead. What we want with this proposal is for the Government to be able to avoid the environmental attacks that the location in Montijo will provoke, but also the moves that will provoke at the health level of the populations. What we want with this proposal is that the Government is not obliged to pass one, I would say, a real minority attack on local authority, to the point of considering changing the law to pass over the opinion of those authorities who do not agree. But we also want to give the government the opportunity not to be linked to the fact that we can become the only country in the world with an airport whose location was decided exclusively by multinational Vinci.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u116	We now move on to the proposal by the CFP to add Article 199. o -A— Public control of urban waste management systems. Mrs Alma Rivera, from the PCP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u117	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the waste sector cannot be dependent on the logic of profit and the minimization of operating costs, because this means less quality of the service provided to populations, low levels of recovery and recycling, opting for landfilling, even if this harms populations, more run-off and dissecting by environmental standards. And it means, as it meant, bad working conditions in the sector, swept away precariousness and low wages. We therefore propose that the process of restoring public control of urban waste management systems be initiated, justified by safeguarding the public interest and so that the country can achieve the ambitious environmental goals and objectives it has announced. We also take advantage of other proposals from the CFP, which seem fundamental to us in this area. For the exploration and exploitation of minerals, an environmental assessment and of large conditioners is necessary to protect the interests of people and ecosystems. The implementation of a national sterilization campaign is inevitable and urgent for animal welfare. It is crucial to reduce the number of abandoned and street animals and, at the same time, to create and improve collection centres. Of course there are no miracles, it takes means to do all this. Therefore, if the environmental concerns that all demonstrate are true, they will translate into the approval of the CFP proposals that aim to give means to those who have to inspect and ensure compliance with the law, to whom they have to study and promote the best environmental practices, to whom they have to defend the air, the soils, the rivers, biodiversity. And none of this is done without the strengthening of IGAMAOT ( General Inspection of Agriculture, the Sea, the Environment and Land Planning ), ICNF ( Institute for Conservation of Nature and Forests ), DGAV ( Directorate-General for Food and Veterinary) and APA ( Portuguese Environment Agency ). [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u118	We move on to the proposal submitted by the NAP to add Article 154. o -A — Strategic environmental assessment for mining contracts. Mrs. Sandra Cunha from the Left Block has the floor. [[Pause.]] Mr Pedro Filipe Soares asked for the floor. To what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u119	Mr President, we do not sign up to intervene on this matter. There must be some lapse.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u120	All right, Mr. Deputies, it doesn't work. In order to intervene on proposal 1283 - C of the CFP to add Article 199. o -A — New electricity contracts with regulated tariffs, amendment to Decree-Law No 75 / 2012 of 26 March 2012 has the floor of Mr Duarte Alves of the PCP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u121	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Member of the Government, the CFP has put forward several proposals in the area of energy to encourage energy efficiency, against sector liberalisation and against the Government's proposal to reduce the extraordinary contribution on the energy sector, giving in to the pressures of the sector, which are the only ones who in Portugal decide not to fulfil their tax obligations and are still rewarded for this. We highlight the proposal for the recovery of the public control of REN ( National Energy Networks ). Even in the context of energy liberalisation imposed by the European Union, there are several European countries that continue to have the management of infrastructure networks and the public-controlled dispatch, and that is what is required. We defend the replacement of VAT (tax on value added) of electricity and gas, including gas supply, at a minimum rate of 6 %, by charging energy as essential as it is, a measure that makes more sense today than ever to the high energy prices paid in Portugal and to the situation we face. The CFP also defends a maximum marketing margin scheme for stock gas, reducing its price. It is unacceptable that another winter will pass and that the price of the gas store will continue to be, in Portugal, almost twice as much as it is in Spain. Nothing justifies this. The ISP (tax on oil and energy products) is equal and VAT has a difference of only 2 %. The difference is in profit margins, because in Spain there are prices fixed and in Portugal not. The poorest populations, who live outside the large urban centres and who are the ones who use the bottle gas most, cannot continue to cool down so that the profit margins of large energy companies continue to increase. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u122	To intervene on the proposal 1135 - C, of the PS, for the addition of Article 199. o-B — Sanitation and treatment of waste water, Mr Fernando Paulo of the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u123	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Portugal has done a very important work over the years to improve its system of sanitation and treatment of waste water with visible effects and meanings for all, substantially improving the environmental situation of the rivers and the sea, growing year after year the number of beaches with blue flag and allowing the authorities to invest heavily in the qualification of their coastal areas, enjoyed today by many thousands of citizens, every day, from north to south of the country. The flora and fauna return to the rivers and coastal areas also the fruit of this work and investment in the water cycle, which improves and protects the environment, combats climate change and increasingly decarbonizes society. The truth is that, in the years of the troika and the right government, there have been opportunities for investment and maintenance that have been lost and that there is now an urgent need to resume energetically. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group therefore takes the initiative to propose for next year an additional strengthening of public investment aimed at the construction and rehabilitation of waste water treatment stations and improving the sanitation network, in order to boost its modernisation and effectiveness. The intelligent use of the water cycle is fundamental to the future of the country and constitutes a crucial contribution to combating climate change, as well as opening new opportunities for the use of waste water for useful purposes, such as streams and washings of the public space, which can and should be done with treated waste water, and reserve drinking water for direct human consumption. We therefore propose that Parliament accompany the Socialist Party in further this initiative in favour of the environment and quality of life. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u124	In order to intervene on the proposal 1344 - C of the ENP to add Article 199. o-G — Conduct of Strategic Environmental Assessment of mining, with special emphasis on exploration, research and exploration of associated lithium and mineral deposits, has the word Mrs Mariana Silva, of the ENP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u125	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, extractive mining has undeniably relevant and unquestionable environmental impacts. As such, it requires a global assessment and weighting, which should be guided by rigorous studies for transparency and the involvement of populations in the areas covered. The exploitation of lithium is more relevant environmental impacts because it is usually carried out in open-air mines and requires excessive use of water. Moreover, the sites indicated for the public tender for exploration and research of associated lithium and minerals, announced by the Government, which may lead to the exploitation and which already have signed concession contracts, have great proximity to each other, covering a wide area of the country, all of them located in areas of great environmental sensitivity and great ecological value, in a cohabitation of promiscuous neighbourhood with classified areas or ratting them. Thus, there will be cumulative impacts of large magnitude on biodiversity on water resources and food production that have to be evaluated. A strategic environmental assessment is indispensable and should include all these sites, either prospecting or already granted for exploitation, a process that, in addition to ensuring transparency, must also take into account that currently the economic and temporary viability of a mining operation, particularly lithium, is more dependent on those who control the world market than on the characteristics of the land. in this matter, Portugal is in a situation of obvious fragility.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u126	In order to intervene on the proposal 179 - C of the NAP to add an article 201. the -A— Prohibition of the use of microplastics in detergents and cosmetics, has the floor Mr. André Silva, of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u127	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, plastic is the material that best characterizes our society of consumption and disposal. Plastic is destroying the oceans, biodiversity, our health and the health of our children. Worse than those plastics you see, microplastics are already in the food chain, poisoning us, and we need to adopt effective public environmental policies. We therefore put forward a proposal to 179 - C aimed at the end of the use of microplastics in cosmetics and detergents. Removing the plastics from the food chain should be a design from the country and from this Parliament, so we call on all parties that, soon in the afternoon, in the Committee on Budgets and Finance, follow this measure.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u128	To intervene on the proposal 1026 - C of the PSD, adding an article 203. o -A — Tax incentive for the slaughter of end-of-life vehicles, Mr Hugo Carvalho, of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u129	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members, there are several references to government taxation in the Budget. But, Mr President, it is not necessary to read much to realize that this neither green is, or, then, it is even a new concept of taxation-mellance, which is green outside, but very red inside. There are more taxes charged in the name of the environment and there is less reversal of this revenue for people and businesses, so that they themselves can do their climate action. These taxes are previously referred to fattening, once again, the Environmental Fund, managed by the Minister for his mega-projects. In addition, EUR 400 million spends on buying expensive hydrogen to few companies to then sell cheap to some international partners. That is why we are presenting a true measure of green taxation, of incentive for the slaughter of end-of-life vehicles, so that people can know that, by paying more taxes on behalf of the environment, these taxes can be returned to them, so that they themselves are agents of climate action, because this is done with people and never at the expense of them and at the expense of businesses, to finance this or that project of this or that minister who is in power. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u130	To intervene on Article 207. o — National Railway Plan, has the floor to Mrs Mariana Silva of the ENP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u131	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, The Greens have always defended the railway, as it is the safest, more sustainable means of transport and with very long-lasting investment. The national railway plan is delayed, even when commitments have been made since 2015 and even after talking so much about climate change and its mitigation. However, the options were different and, after a past in which the option was to close many train lines throughout the territory, it is necessary to start again. It is necessary to start again from the point where not all district capitals are served by the railway line, where part of the lines is overcrowded, where many of the schedules do not serve the populations, where there is a lack of circulating material, being part of the existing obsolete. The solution for a friendly mobility of populations and the environment goes through a national railway plan to Portugal, to ensure and develop the connection of the whole territory, so that the right to mobility is met. This plan remains non-existent, but because of the promises we have heard from the government, 2021 will be the year of reflection, proposals and planning in this sector so important for the country and for the people, which is the railway. in this sense, because it is urgent to answer this question, the Greens expect to see the proposal on the national rail plan approved.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u132	Mr. Secretary of State for Infrastructure, Jorge Delgado.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u133	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I take the opportunity to make two references to two patent proposals in Articles 206. o is 207. The proposal of the law. For Article 206. o — Recruitment of retired workers for the area of maintenance of rolling stock, I am pleased to say the following: it is recognised, I think today by everyone, that what has been announced as a clear bet on the railway is being objectively fulfilled. CP ( Portugal Trains ) has opened a workshop that was long closed in Guifões; CP has recovered circulating material that has been lying for many years and that is now circulating on the Sintra line ; CP, to accelerate the process of having more cars available for the operation that it does everyday, acquired a set of 51 Arc to Renfe ( National Network of Spanish Railways ) and is about to start operating with these carriages, accelerating a procurement process, because, when new, it takes much longer. This is only possible, of course, with the additional measure adopted for the hiring of human resources, workers, for the COP, allowing all workers who have been leaving, for one reason or another, to be restored and, more than that, increasing their effectiveness, with the strengthening of the CP frameworks. This contract is ongoing and will continue to contribute not only to strengthening but also to the rejuvenation of CP frameworks. This rejuvenation of the CP frameworks naturally results in the need for the training of these new workers. It was decided to make a bet to hire some CP workers who, already retired, with some bonus, would say, are making themselves available to work again for an additional period with the CP to help speed up the formation of these tables. That is why this proposal is patented in Article 206. it is here, to allow the continuation of the hiring of retired workers, in order to accelerate the process of formation of the frames of these young people of the CP. For Article 207. the, I would say that, as everyone knows, the government chose the railway as a central and indispensable element for the social and economic development of the country. The investment we are making has no parallel in the history of recent decades. Therefore, in line with this option, it is imperative to fill the gap that results objectively from the absence of a regulatory plan of the national rail network. It is therefore proposed that the Government draw up a national railway plan based on principles of sustainability and establishing a coherent network model. With this plan we propose to draw up, among other things, the railway lines for national, metropolitan and regional passenger services are defined, ensuring their proper interconnection and their extension throughout the territory. A proper link between the rail network and the rest of the transport ecosystem will also be established. Port and airport links will be worked out as fundamental elements of economic dynamism of these units and will also be established the Iberian cross-border links and their integration into the trans-European passenger and freight network. The importance of this plan, as an instrument of action for the political priority which the Government has attributed to the railway, makes it the intention of the Government to draw up this plan as soon as possible. This is a structural document and we want it to be a very well-considered document from the technical and planning point of view, and also very involved. We therefore envisage several stages in its preparation, which are part of debate conferences, public debate sessions in the five regions of the country, therefore open to all the public, of course, of the involvement of this Assembly of the Republic. We know the urgency and importance of this document, but we want to do so with all thought. This is what we intend to do during 2021, as shown in the budget proposal for 2021. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u134	Mr. Secretary of State for the Environment, Inês Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u135	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the TGR (Residue Management Rate) is only one of several instruments which, coordinated, initiate a profound reform for Portugal in the waste management sector, equivalent to the closure of waste, which was also assumed by a socialist government. There is no doubt that this was a fundamental step towards improving the quality of the country and, therefore, the ongoing transformation is also a necessary and mandatory step if we want to achieve carbon neutrality and move towards a more circular economy. That is why we have established, in our proposal for a general waste management regime, a recirculation of part of this rate, also to support municipalities in this transition, in addition to the EUR 700 million provided for in the National Investment Programme 2030 for this sector. It will not be possible to continue to persist in the same instruments and expect different answers. to those who put this instrument in question, we remember that it was not a minister or an environmental minister of a socialist government who said something like 'it is not worth trying to separate, because they then mix everything', perpetuating myths of 20 years. Separate recyclable materials and give them the correct destination are of the easiest and most direct actions that the citizen has to contribute to the fight against climate change and, on this basis, also to reduce the waste management rate paid by his or her municipality and therefore his or her turnover. Therefore, we can only conclude that those who do not support the need for this transformation like to say that it is in favour of prevention, reuse and recycling, but in the end they even prefer nothing to happen and that they continue to send recyclable materials for incineration or landfill. We cannot say that we want change if we are not willing to change. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u136	We moved on to Article 208. o — Public housing policies. Mr Alexandre Poço has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u137	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the government, we all know that young Portuguese people are the ones who later leave their parents' home. We also know that the average European age of parental leave is at home at age 30 and we know that the Porta 65 programme has not been able to respond to this demand for housing by new generations. Port 65 access rates are around 50 %. We therefore have half the candidates to stay out. The proposal that the PSD brings today to this House wants to ensure that young people can submit their applications, not being limited by a maximum allowed income replaced by a maximum reference income and thus have access to their financial support regardless of the value of their lease. Thereafter, the lease will obviously be supported in a reference amount. We need to ensure that young people have greater access to young housing and it is urgent that Port 65 be modified. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u138	We move on to a proposal by the NAP to add Article 208. o -A — Study on undue catches of mammals and marine birds by fishing nets and strengthening monitoring. Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u139	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, this is undoubtedly a problem that has been of concern to the scientific community for years that has been warning about the dumping of iconic species, such as dolphins or other marine birds, which are wrongly caught in fishing gears or even waste left in the oceans, and also for species that die due to excess pollution, particularly because of the plastic we find in our seas. This problem, in fact, has affected these species that are already in decline on our backs, also in areas that may be considered habitats called "cribs", where there is a greater presence of these animals with breeds. It is essential that we do not revert to a process that has happened, which is the fact that these animals are looking for the Portuguese coast, setting themselves up and living in it with a higher incidence. For this to happen it is necessary to bet on policies that will safeguard not only our oceans, but also the species that receive, under the penalty of witnessing, impatience, the decline of species and the silence of our planet. We need not only to have studies that are carried out and disseminated on undue catches of marine mammals and marine birds, but also to strengthen the means of monitoring and monitoring these contexts and, of course, to strengthen the means allocated to wildlife recovery centres, including marine life, in order to reverse what has been a point of no return on our planet and our oceans.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u140	We now move on to the proposal by the PS to add an article 208. o -A – Porta 65 Youth Programme. Mrs. Maria Begonha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u141	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, the impossibility of accessing housing at affordable costs has in fact been the great obstacle that is unattainable for the emancipation of the newest generations of our country, for whom an unfair, abusive and discriminatory lease market means worse living conditions, late emancipation and postponement of paths and objectives. That is why this State budget continues to invest in affordable rental policies, and that is why the Socialist Party is presenting today the proposal that reinforces fundamental support for the access of young people to housing. This is a programme that can and should be improved, but that is an important answer — the Porta 65 Programme. We are among the countries of Europe where emancipation is in fact later and family formation for young people is difficult, which exacerbates the demographic crisis that we all recognize we face and strengthens the urgency of intervening with policies for access to housing for young people. It is also no taboo to say that the younger generations of our country suffer a disadvantage in access to housing vis-à-vis previous generations, as they suffer a disadvantage with precariousness at work and with the insecurity it generates. We know that the increase in the qualifications of the younger generation must be accompanied by access to employment and fair wages and that we have a long way to go to make housing accessible and universal for young people. We therefore advocate that it is a matter of intergenerational justice that recognises the urgency of policies to support rental specifically directed to young people, now even more necessary with the crisis we are going through. We defend that the construction of a present and a better future for Portuguese youth has a prominent role in the response of the State budget to 2021. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u142	A proposal submitted by the CFP for the addition of Article 209 is followed. o -A— Self-support Fund for Family Agriculture. Mr. João Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u143	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members, for the CFP, to defend family agriculture is to defend national production and food sovereignty. For this reason, the CFP presents a proposal which aims to create an autonomous fund for family farming. Two years after the publication of the Family Agriculture Statute, it does not pass a political declaration without any benefit to the world of family farmers. It is in this sense that the CFP proposes the creation of an autonomous support fund for family farming for farmers and agricultural holdings benefiting from the Family Agriculture Statute and its associated organizations and structures. But the CFP also proposes other measures to support agriculture in general, including green electricity. Mr Secretary of State, I have to tell you that what the Government has done with regard to the measure adopted by the CFP on a proposal under Supplementary Budget was a fraud. What is contained in the law is that support should be calculated on the basis of the value of consumption also increased from the power contracted rather than what the Government did, which was only to support the fixed component. This is fraud, Secretary of State! It is also important to speed up the process of demining farmers and forest producers by destroying production through wild animals. The CFP shall bear in mind the urgent need to expedite and adapt the response to the damage caused by wild animals. It is also necessary to create conditions for the regularisation of livestock holdings, in particular through a last period of regularisation of such holdings. It is also important for the Directorate-General for Food and Veterinary to be able to exercise its powers, in particular by responding to the large number of municipalities which do not have a single veterinary physician in their area of intervention, but also with regard to the need to assess, in an extended way, the consequences of superintensive crops and related activities, including industrial activities. Mr Secretary of State, I would like to point out to you that it is important to ensure the rapid and necessary implementation of the regularization and reinstitutionalization of the House of Douro. It is important that this situation be resolved once and for all in this State budget. Mrs. Members, I also leave a number of proposals, particularly in the area of fisheries, which must support, such as the knowledge and research of fish resources, small local and coastal fisheries and vocational training of master and seafaring. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u144	The next item is the floor of the Secretary of State for Agriculture and Rural Development, Nuno Russo.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u145	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, on family agriculture, the Government and the Ministry of Agriculture are seeking to improve the Family Agriculture Statute in order to meet an effective and more targeted universe for small, more appealing and less bureaucratic agriculture. thus, there is and is in preparation a set of measures and support specific to small farmers with the status of family farming, either at the level of agricultural advice, such as the creation of groups of multi-product producers, or in support of the level of short chains and local markets. All of this without fail to mention the increase in subsidies relating to the use of coloured and marked diesel, agricultural harvest insurance and, moreover, the preparation of measures on the purchase of proximity, the marketing line of credit, the Parallel Programme for Ordering, the licensing of small industrial units, between possible measures within the tax system and social security. These are our goals and this will be our work. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u146	We move on to the proposal submitted by the NAP to add Article 201. -A — Eco-island installation and waste management in marine, marine and river ports. Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u147	Mr. President, the impact that the presence of plastic has on the oceans is a scourge already known to all of us. in this sense, it is essential to provide our ports and other marine-fluvial recreational spaces of eco-island or containers that allow the existence of a collection network, which encourage the proper deposition of these wastes, but also the removal of them from our oceans, which has not so far happened with the subsequent treatment of these wastes and the separation itself. This measure also covers the delivery of damaged material, such as fishing nets, because we well know that this is one of the factors that often causes the undue capture of marine mammals with much relevance in the decline of protected species. Obviously, coupled with this implementation, it is essential to ensure the realization of a awareness campaign for users of these different ports, so that we can fight one of the greatest scourges of our times, which is plastic in the oceans.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u148	The proposal submitted by the PSD for the addition of Article 209 is followed. o -A — Quality certification system for Portuguese marine products. You have the floor to Mrs Catarina Rocha Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u149	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD proposes, in this State budget, measures with strategic vision for our collective future that define sustainable paths for the economic and social recovery of our post-pandamy country. That's the case of the sea. As incredible as it may seem, the current government continues to forget the potential of the Portuguese sea. Our sea can be fundamental in the growth and affirmation of Portugal in the world. The PSD therefore proposes that in 2021 the Government reverse its position and define the sea as a preferential framework in terms of investment and growth. We propose the establishment of a certification system to ensure the economic, environmental and social sustainability of products originating at sea. The aim is to ensure a quality seal for products originating in the Portuguese Sea, valuing them commercially on the world market, increasingly demanding in the resources used. We want Portugal to place itself in the unique position it has in the sea. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u150	We now move on to the proposal by the PS to add Article 210. o -A — Regional water efficiency plans. Mr. Luís Graça has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u151	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, water and water salinity is one of the biggest strategic challenges for the Algarve, a Mediterranean region in which the climate oscillates, 10 months per year, between severe drought and extreme drought. In the last year, the Government identified a set of savings and investment measures on the side of diversification of sources of origin whose investments may amount to EUR 400 million. Today, the European Commission commended the Portuguese Government for having included this Algarve Regional Plan for Water Efficiency in the Portugal Recovery and Resilience Plan for the opportunity it creates from the point of view of the water guarantee for a region and new investments and for the diversification of the economic base in a region strongly hit at the heart of its economy by this pandemic. The proposal that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group here brings, since this project is already part of the State budget, is that the Government accelerates these measures in the first quarter of 2021, in particular by advancing the studies of environmental and economic viability of desalination in the Algarve for human consumption. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u152	We are now entering Article 211. o — Official animal collection centres, support for sterilization and promotion of animal welfare. Mrs Bebiana Cunha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u153	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have brought to this budget a commitment to animal protection, presenting a proposal for a sum of EUR 10 million, which ultimately aims to guarantee and take the path that has to be made in this area. It is undeniable that it is perennial and fundamental to move forward in the direction of a national sterilization campaign. This is an unmistakable path in those that are animal protection policies to combat overcrowding of collection centers and zoophyll associations. It is essential to support these associations, which have often replaced the State. Animal protection policies are also social policies, so people who are in conditions of socio-economic vulnerability must be supported by the care they provide to their pets and, therefore, we also bring here a proposal for budget allocation for the establishment of public veterinary hospitals. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, let us not forget the work of animal protection associations, which have often replaced the State. This is a path that, in Portugal, has to be made in animal protection and that is also a matter of social protection policy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u154	Mrs. Members shall turn to Article 212. the — Provider of the Animal, for which the PSD presented a proposal. Mrs Emília Cerqueira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u155	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, with regard to this proposal submitted by the PSD on the Provider of Animals, the PSD tries at least to limit the damage — yes, we talk about damage — that is being done in animal health. The PSD, on the basis of this unrealistic and irrational proposal contained in the proposal for a law, proposes that at least once the Provider be for pets only and that he have an advisory council consisting of the actors of the sector, including the Order of Veterinary Physicians, the Municipal Veterinary Doctors, the doctors of the association of pet clinicians, for at least to diminish because, Mrs and Mrs. Members, with this proposal against science and evidence, against all national and international standards, what is being done is to lead to the destruction of DGAV and thereby to animal welfare. The government, in an unbelievable way, almost inconceivable to all those who are in the sector, despite the warnings and appeals from all over the country, of all those who have pets and their representatives, advances, by the sights, with this proposal and thus sells the primary sector to the NAP and the ENP, those who are, in fact, not friends of the primary sector and who are, yes, enemies of our territory, our environment and, above all, our animals. Confounding production animals with pets is really unreal and goes against all those who are the interests of the territory and that are the best interests of science and knowledge. Mr. Prime Minister says, "we have been guided by science. Then, stand and do not commit this atrocity against all scientific evidence, because populism is more primary than this is hard to imagine. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, with this proposal it may be that they are still moving back and able to meet what is best for animals. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u156	Mrs Bebiana Cunha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u157	Mr President, I just wanted to say to Mrs PSD that when you talk about an animal supplier, a supplier of all animals, you talk about someone who is the voice of these animals, you don't talk about someone who is the voice of the economic sector. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u158	We will move on to a proposal submitted by the PSD of Article 219. o -A— Duration of the contract for the provision of news and information service of public interest concluded between the State and the Lusa-Agence de Noticias de Portugal, S.A. Mr. Paulo Rios de Oliveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u159	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Lusa Agency is mainly owned by the State and is the only Portuguese news agency with unparalleled national implementation and provides the Portuguese State with a relevant public interest service relating to information to citizens. This national relevance extends to the international space with particular importance in the Lusophone space. The Lusa is also decisive in promoting true territorial cohesion, bringing the news to all. However, the contract for the provision of news and information service concluded between the Portuguese State and the Lusa Agency ended a year ago in total disrespect for what was stated in the Programme of the current Government. But not only does Lusa need a new contract that ensures a regular financial flow necessary for the pursuit of its objectives and strengthens its role as a reference social communication body, but that it will last for an extended period of six years. The financing of the Lusa Agency shall be based on a broader multiannual basis to ensure appropriate planning, necessary reforms, necessary technological investment and the necessary stability and management autonomy that are indispensable to a strong, efficient and prestigious public information service in the appropriate manner and respect for the principles of rigor, credibility, factivity and in accordance with the values of the Agency and the public good. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u160	We will move on to a proposal submitted by the PS of Article 219. o -A— Savings Plan Rescue Reform. Mr. Carlos Brás has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u161	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members, the Socialist Party, through its parliamentary group, brings to this House a measure that aims to be an increase in the quality of the Government's proposal for the State Budget for 2021. The situation of high social, health and economic uncertainty warrants appropriate measures to enable Portuguese to have tools and mechanisms at their disposal that will enable them to mitigate, as far as possible, the negative impacts of this whole situation. One of these measures is the possibility of recovering savings plans reform in advance and without fiscal penalties. This is one of those exceptional and temporary measures that were adopted in May 2020, but which ended on 30 September. The Socialist Party believes that it is entirely justified that this measure can be adopted for the first half of 2021 of course in situations where there has been loss or reduction of income caused by the pandemic. Interestingly, the PSD also presents a similar proposal, the main focus of which is to free the means of treasury to deal with commitments with the landlords. Now, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in this terrible situation, it seems to me that the main concern of many of the Portuguese is to put bread on the table and not to honour the commitments with the gentlemen. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u162	We will move on to a proposal submitted by the PSD of Article 219. o -A — SME Certification. Mrs. Sofia Matos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u163	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this Government has five essential messages for companies: first, which will increase the minimum wage at the time when the inflation rate will be zero; second, that it will yield to the taxes on the radical left and will change the labour code; third, that the tax burden not only does not fall as it increases for companies at a time when there is no economic recovery in the next year; fourth — stop! — that taxes are not going to increase, when what is supposed to happen was precisely the opposite; fifth, when exports fell 40 %, when insolvencys are expected to increase 31 % by 2021 and at a time when there has never been so much risk as today, at a time when bankruptcy in credit insurance increased by 50 %, that the government's response to businesses is absolutely inadequate and insufficient. The PSD therefore submits two proposals on the certification of SMEs (small and medium-sized enterprises) and credit insurance. In short, ladies and gentlemen. Members, this government has a hand full of nothing for businesses, a hand full of nothing for those who create wealth, a hand full of nothing for those who create jobs, a hand full of nothing for those who support the economy in Portugal. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u164	A proposal submitted by the PSD of Article 219 is followed. o -A — Rescue of PPR, PPE, PPR / E without penalty. Mr. Carlos Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u165	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the Portuguese families are living in difficult days, largely failing to honour their commitments, even in some cases reaching the point of non-compliance. It is true, unfortunately, that this situation becomes all the more incomprehensible if the family has a mid-term foot but cannot touch it, because the state blindly does not allow it to move, creating obstacles with widespread financial losses in these times of crisis. The PSD initiative in the first state of emergency was very important when it proposed the rescue of PRPs (reform savings plans) without fiscal penalties. Unfortunately, the PS did not accompany us and the Portuguese became victims of the popular home: on the one hand, the government pretends it gives with one hand, but truly withdraws with another. [[PS protests.]] Families can lift the PPRs, they could already before, but they are surprised by a tax penalty that can take them from their wallet hundreds of euros. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is essential that there is clarity in the legal effects intended and that they really are those produced. The PSD, aware of this responsibility, and so that the Portuguese do not feel deceived by the government's propaganda, brought the issue to this State Budget and waited for this clarification to help thousands of Portuguese families. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u166	We will move on to a proposal submitted by the PS of Article 219. o-B — Guarantee of access to essential services. Mr Hugo Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u167	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the current pandemic situation started in Portugal in March led to a single economic and social crisis with dramatic effects on many families, based on unemployment and income breaks. Detonating the social emergency and responding to the economic crisis without neglecting the health aspect, a fundamental pillar for confidence and economic recovery, has always been the priorities of the Government and the Socialist Party. Large-scale measures, such as simplified layoff, have been a reality, stressing the recent fair changes in payment to 100 % of the approved layoff already in the field of specialty. In response to the social emergency, social benefits were extremely important with the need for no one to be able to stay behind in social support, and this effort continues in this State budget with a new social support for those who were unprotected. However, it has been important from the outset to ensure that those who have suffered a sharp fall in income do not lack access to essential public services, protected by law, including water, electricity, natural gas and electronic communications. No one would accept that because of this pandemic people would be without access to what we all, in society, consider essential; it would be a multiplication of inequalities. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, has any of us in this Chamber ever imagined what it is to live without the essential services because of a question of income due to the pandemic? Surely we must not accept it. In April, it was approved, during the state of emergency, that the suspension of the service was prohibited and that the unilateral termination of the service was permitted without the intended compensation. This scheme, on a proposal from the PS Parliamentary Group, was extended. In fact, in view of the development of the pandemic situation and its economic and social consequences, it is of extreme urgency for many families to renew this scheme, keeping the beneficiaries, i.e. for those who, because of the COVID-19, had a reduction in income exceeding 20 %. That is exactly what the PS Parliamentary Group's proposal does in a fair and serious way. In conclusion, this is a socially just proposal, which aims to combat the inequalities and the economic and social weaknesses resulting from the pandemic situation. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u168	We move on to a proposal submitted by the PSD of Article 219. o-B — Moratory for companies that develop the rental activity of vehicles without a driver. Mr. Alberto Fonseca has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u169	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in March, with the outbreak of the pandemic, the Government launched the credit moratoriums, allowing families, businesses, IPSS ( private institutions of social solidarity) to postpone their banking commitments in the first phase by September 2020 and then to extend to March and September 2021. However, the date of accession remained in September 2020, which means that families and businesses, which, in this second wave, have far more restrictive measures than the first one, want to join these moratoriums, can no longer do so. PSD is a responsible party that seeks to always be on the side of the solution and not on the side of the problem. We do not want anything different in relation to what has already been, and it is in force up to now, including the conditions under which these moratoriums exist, which are, in fact, essential for everything to be done in the best way, both at the level of banks and at the level of companies, but we believe that a new period of accession to these moratoriums must be opened here so that these families and companies can join and benefit from these same conditions. The banks have already helped families and businesses greatly at this first stage, and it is important that they have the right to continue to do so, since the government does not. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u170	We move on to the proposal submitted by the IL of Article 219. o-C — Simple contracts and family support development. Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u171	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, education is and will be the first factor in social mobility. But in Portugal, this social elevator is damaged and the pandemic has exposed these failures in a raw way. In addition, it produced worrying deficits and delays in learning. We therefore propose that school support services, study support services and explanations — since they are subject to the maximum VAT rate and are not deductible — become deductible in the education costs of Portuguese families. in the same way, we propose that the computer material, which has proven to be so scarce in so many families, is now included in the batch of deductible materials for the same purpose. In addition to these matters related to the recovery of delays in learning, we continue to fight to purge the school, as a social elevator, of class prejudices, which do not have anywhere in a free society. We therefore propose to extend the social action to schools in the private and cooperative sector, because there are many children in need of these schools, and to strengthen the values for the conclusion of simple contracts and development of support for families, which have allowed so many young people in need to attend schools. Freedom has no meaning if it does not mean freedom of choice, starting in education.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u172	I call again on Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the IL, to speak on a proposal for an addition, also submitted by this party, of Article 219. o-E — Financial commitments relating to TAP - Portuguese Air Transport, SGPS, S.A. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u173	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, when this government nationalized TAP and buried EUR 1200 million there, it was said that it was essential for national cohesion; a few months later, there were two or three routes to port and Faro... It was said that it was essential to keep jobs; there are already 2600 jobs and let's see what the restructuring plan reserves. It has also been said that it was essential to return Portuguese and maintain the hub in Lisbon; let's see what the restructuring plan says. This budget provides for additional guarantees up to EUR 500 million for TAP. For we propose that any torso, as a result of agreements, or any commitment beyond these 500 million euros should be subject to the prior notice of the Court of Auditors so that TAP does not become the new New Bank. At least, the New Bank had a maximum involvement limit.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u174	We now move on to the proposal submitted by the PSD to add Article 219. o-E — Strengthen the participation of the State in the capital of Banco Português de Fomento S.A. Mr. Eduardo Teixeira, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u175	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, with a delay of more than five years since the allocation of the bank licence, it seems that this month will finally leave the role of the Portuguese Development Bank, which results from the merger of three entities into a social capital, which is exactly the same as the sum of the original companies, i.e. zero investment. This public society, which has made the « stone path », must now affirm itself with dynamism and the future, be crucial for the financial recovery of the post-pandamy, achieve the necessary assumption of the risks of conjuncture in order to make possible the bet on innovation and overcome potential market failures in support of our economy. Here, the Development Bank should expand the scope of its work much beyond the role of manager of the public guarantee system or the promotion of the Structural Funds. It also needs to be able to focus on direct credit for investment projects, support for corporate capitalisation and the restructuring of business financial liabilities that are viable in terms of activity. It is a fundamental bank to rebuild and recover Portugal. In order to be able to leverage, it needs more own resources, much higher than the allocation in its creation. It needs a capital injection of this State budget, because if it is not so, it will be very painful for its mission, it will not be useful, and those who lose will undoubtedly be the national economy. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u176	To intervene on Article 220. o — Amendment to the Tax Code on the Income of Single Persons, has the floor Mr. Under-Secretary of State and Tax Affairs, Antonio Mendes.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u177	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let me now begin the debate on the tax side, which, on behalf of the Government, refers to an option which is translated into this State budget. This State budget brings fiscal stability, and this dimension is very relevant because we cannot look at the State budget for 2021 ignoring the following: that, during 2020, the State budget for 2020 was presented, which, as a result of the beginning of the new legislation, was only discussed in 2020 ; that we then had the Supplementary Budget in June to answer the questions of the pandemic ; and that on 10 October we delivered the EO for 2021. That is, in nine months, three State budgets. That is why all tax provisions should be seen in all of these three instruments, which were made in different contexts and with different responses. What we do not ignore is the most urgent answer we have to give, which is the question of the economic and social consequences that the pandemic crisis brings to us. from a fiscal point of view, our choice was clear. First, we decided not to raise taxes. This decision, as much as some tend to devalue, is a relevant decision, because it marks an option in how we want to respond to this crisis. The non-increase of taxes is linked to a set of other initiatives in the area of tax adjustment of existing tax rules with a view to greater flexibility in the fulfilment of tax obligations by both families and businesses. I wanted to remind you that, at the height of the pandemic, we launched a measure of extreme importance for families. I am referring to automatic payment plans, in which families have no longer had to claim payment for tax debt benefits that did not require guarantee, first being the tax administration to make this payment plan automatically and to place the consideration of each of the taxpayers if necessary to use it. On the other hand, from the company's point of view, we have carried out measures directed either to adjust the limitation of payments on account or to simplify the payment of taxes in the second quarter and which we now repeat with respect to quarterly VAT. All of these responses to the needs of the pandemic, which stem from the economic and social consequences of the pandemic, are also expressed in the State budget for 2021. I refer to two measures: the exclusion of the increase in autonomous taxes for companies which have suffered in 2021, but which in the previous three years have had at least one profit year, i.e. we are safeguarding those companies which, solely because of the effect of the pandemic, have had negative results, so we considered that it did not make sense that they had an increase in their autonomous taxation ; and a second measure, of the greatest importance, which has to do with the promotion of the relocation of the buildings that are affected by the commercial activity to return to the personal sphere, eliminating the most value that was due to this rehabilitation. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not limit ourselves to making adjustments and we do not limit ourselves to pure and harsh fiscal stability. This budget has a great concern: we can only not increase taxes and maintain the State's response capacity if we are able to preserve our taxable bases. Now, the State budget for 2021 is very clear in the preservation of taxable bases. I want to give you four examples. First of all, the renewed decision in this Budget prohibits access to public support by companies based in offshore. Secondly, a proposal of greater importance at the level of IRC ( income tax for legal persons ), which is the amendment to the concept of « stable » establishment so that multinationals who have generated income in Portugal and who today do not pay taxes become taxed in Portugal. This amendment, accompanied by anti-fragmentation rules concerning the establishment of « stable », is essential for tax justice, which is even more relevant at a time of crisis. I would also like to highlight the measure of inclusion of public limited companies in the incidence of the IMT (municipal tax on onerous transmissions of real estate) when there is a transaction of real estate, which equates public limited companies with the situation of companies by quotas, thereby preserving again the taxable bases. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen. Members, who also highlight an initiative, presented by the ENP, which I think is of the greatest importance, which refers to the worsening of the IMI (municipal property tax) and the IMT for offshore companies with buildings in Portugal. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in addition to preserving tax bases, and in response to the need to boost domestic demand, the EO for 2021 presents three important measures which together form a fiscal stimulus to domestic demand of EUR 550 million. I am talking about the reflection of electricity VAT, whose step-by-step reduction was approved by the Government and which has its impact throughout the 2021 fiscal year. I speak of the adjustment of the IRS retention tables (tax on the income of natural persons) that we will do by next week and that will allow the retention tables to be adjusted to the tax effectively due. I am also talking about the programme to support and encourage consumption in the housing, culture and restoration sectors, the 'VATucher' programme, which, as proposed for amendment, by the PS Parliamentary Group, in the field of expertise, will be adjusted when the pandemic situation allows it to be developed. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about fiscal stability, preserving tax bases, encouraging domestic demand and not to hesitate for a minute in simplifying procedures and adjusting rules that allow compliance with tax obligations, because compliance with tax obligations is very important for the State to maintain the capacity to respond to the crisis that we all require. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u178	Even under the same article, I give the floor to Mrs Isabel Lopes of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u179	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Portuguese population of active age is the least qualified when compared with other countries of the European Union. About 29 % attends secondary or post-secondary education, but does not complete higher education, only 20 % has this degree. There are many workers who, despite their willingness and openness to improve their skills, do not have financial conditions to assume the duties inherent in the frequency of a CteSP ( Professional Higher Technical Course ), a degree, a master's degree or a doctorate. The increasingly competitive labour market and the pressing need to qualify the active age population led the PSD to present a proposal for change to IRS and IRC. This proposal aims, in an articulated way, to provide an incentive for the frequency of higher courses by workers and an incentive for companies to support their employees in strengthening their higher education qualifications. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u180	Mrs Cecilia Meireles from the CDS-PP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u181	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now beginning, shortly after the end of the third day of the four days devoted to the debate on the budget, to discuss the fiscal proposals. The first thing I would like to say is that, in fact, tax proposals are a bit of a poor relative to this budget. The State budget cannot, nor should it be just a document in which everything that the State can or should give to people and families is discussed. All that the State can or should give to people or families is something that must be taxed, either in the present or in the future. And we should never forget that. With all due respect for the subjects that we are discussing here, some of which are absolutely vital — in health, education, in the social sector — the truth is that issues such as deliveries, human milk banks or animal suppliers could and should be more serious and deeper discussions in other locations and not here. The tax questions and tax relief that can or may not be given to Portuguese families can only be discussed here, because after this time it is forbidden to approve any proposal that diminishes the revenue of the State. The government introduces itself here, saying that in tax matters — and it would start by talking about the IRS, without prejudice to then talking about the IRC — and this is basically what I realized, is this: there are no increases and they are already full of luck! Basically, this is the position of the Government : « on tax matters there is no increase in taxes and they consider themselves very happy with it ». I don't think so. Comparisons with the last crisis, which was somewhere from 2008 to 2014, are, with all honesty, an exercise or intellectual dishonesty or adjustment of PS accounts with its own past and past leaderships, with which I have nothing to do with. What is important here, and that is the objective of the CDS in the proposals it has put forward, is really— either in the pandemic period, or because we have a different view than must be the protection of the income of families and people—to present some basic proposals. It is also important to note that there was a promise on the table on IRS. The government promised and the Socialist Party presented the elections promising that in 2021 there would be a tax relief in the IRS of 200 million euros. This promise is behind you. In the negotiations that were made to enable this Budget, there was room for everything, but, yes, this promise had to stay behind, for this there was no space. And this, from my point of view, was the essential promise that should have been fulfilled, especially in a time of pandemic, in which, as it is understood, the incomes of families are affected and, therefore, it becomes particularly important, especially for middle-class families—who are most affected by forgetting this promise—that it has been fulfilled. The CDS presented a proposal to correct this injustice and which forms part of a budget other than the government's budget. Part of the assumption that there is a need for a general fall in IRS rates and a proposal for these rates to fall by around 5 %, which would lead to IRS revenue at levels more or less than 2018, whose GDP ( Gross Domestic Product) and whose economy will probably not be particularly different from what we are going to have in 2021. Secondly, in relation to the adjustment of the tax retained at the source and to its correspondence with the tax which, in fact, will be due by the people, the proposal that we present is that, systematically, the families cease to forward money to the State and that, above all, in a pandemic period, the State does not go to finance itself or borrow money from the families that they then will not have to pay from a fiscal point of view. Finally, I would also like to highlight relevant proposals. Let us keep, of course, proposals that have always seemed important to us, as is the case with the deduction, for tax purposes, of expenditure in study centres. And we also present this year the deduction of expenses with tablets and computer equipment, because we know that for many children this expenditure has become essential, so that they can simply attend classes. As health expenses, we present the inclusion of masks and disinfectants, like, indeed, of what I think is more or less a consensus in this House. I would end by saying this: here is a big difference in philosophy between the proposals presented by the CDS and what the Government and its left-wing partners believe in. From that point of view, and from the point of view of management, to protect income, to protect families and to protect people is to allocate subsidies to them. from our point of view, protecting people is, yes, helping those who need it most, but it is also respecting the fruit of people's work and not going to take them away more than strictly necessary. This is a fundamental difference and our proposals represent this fundamental difference.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u182	Even in the context of the discussion of Article 220. that of the bill, has the floor to Mrs Vera Braz of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u183	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State and Mr. Members, I would like to add to what Mr. Secretary of State Antonio Mendes here said since 2015 the Government of the Socialist Party has come, year after year, to repair the fiscal injustice imposed by the right. The goal was, and of course, to improve the living conditions of the Portuguese. And, yes, protecting Portuguese income means €2000 million tax relief by 2019: we have eliminated the overtax of IRS; we have replaced the family coefficient by fixed deductions; we have already updated the steps of the IRS and increased the minimum of existence. And already this year, in the State Budget for 2020, we have continued to pursue this path of income-enhancing, with clear signs that we are paying attention to the younger ones, with significant reductions in IRSs, also reinforcing the importance of promoting birth through the increase of child-set deductions; and we have again increased the minimum of existence — we are talking about 200 000 families free of IRS. And today, in the face of the adversities that have fallen upon us, that have come without warning, that they harm the lives of the Portuguese, we do not give up, we do not shrink back in everything that has already been achieved. More than ever, we have to be resilient. Answers to current challenges are needed and therefore the State should not retain income from families. With the State budget for 2021, EUR 200 million is anticipated as a result of the review of retention rates in the source of IRS. They are real values, which will contribute to increasing the available income of families. And because we are facing a country other than the one we found at the beginning of the year, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group has proposed an exceptional increase of €100 at the minimum of existence, still applicable to the incomes of 2020, which means that tens of thousands of workers no longer pay IRS. No one should have a net income less than it is considered necessary to live. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, our focus must be on what is crucial to the difficult moment we are going through: protecting those who need the most. Protect in the present to take care of the future. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u184	Mr Duarte Alves of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u185	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government and Members of the Commission. Members, within the framework of the IRS, the Government has commitments with a marked date for this year that cannot be fulfilled. It was the government that decided to push these decisions for 2021 and therefore it must now comply. Proposals from the CFP will be voted on today to introduce a real tax relief within IRS, contrary to the Government's proposal, which disregards these commitments: the updating of the steps at the inflation rate; the continuation of the 10-step replacement path, increasing, this year, another step in the IRS tables; and, above all, measures aimed at tax relief on lower and intermediate incomes, such as the increase in the minimum of existence and specific deduction. The specific deduction has been frozen since 2010, which means that 10 years ago taxpayers with lower incomes are losing purchasing power! As regards the minimum of existence, the CFP defends its increase by around €550, to compensate for the various increases in the national minimum wage, which have increased, but whose increase has not been accompanied by the minimum of existence to the same extent. The increase of only €100, ahead of the proposal submitted by the PS, is very limited, will cover only 20,000 taxpayers, when it was necessary to reach a lot more people, people who continue to impoverish while working and who are out of existence by these minimum wage increases. These PCP proposals are accompanied by measures to eliminate tax privileges to large economic groups, ensuring that profits made in Portugal are taxed in the country instead of fleeing to tax havens, measures that are now more than ever imposed. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u186	Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u187	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government and Members of the Commission. Members, it is in the crises that it becomes more obvious that without a significant tax breakdown and equally significant tax simplification Portugal will not emerge from the flow of Europe. For this reason, we are again proposing, as a matter of discussion in the specialty, our flag proposals: the single rate of IRS of 15 %, a gradual logic—at present with two steps and exemptions up to 700 € per month—and also a single rate of IRC of 15 % and consequent elimination of the state spill. We also propose a measure of urgency and real aid to companies, so that the tax which companies will not pay in the future can be advanced due to the losses which they will unfortunately record this year and next year, anticipating the tax credits that they will generate. That, yes, would be a real injection of liquidity in companies and a real help to their many current problems. But as long as the real reform of the tax system is not done, we are trying to improve it, for example, by proposing to increase the minimum of existence, which has already been discussed — I want to see how the PS will vote on this proposal. And we want to fiscally encourage activities that are very affected by the crisis that we are living, from the beginning of local accommodation, the practice of amateur sports in clubs or gyms, the purchase and signature of newspapers or magazines, whether physical or electronic, and the encouragement of collective transport. We are proposing the switch from the VAT rate to 6 % throughout the entire restaurant, the supply of food and drink services. There will be no sector more affected, and increasingly affected, not only by the crisis, but by the erratic measures of the Government of the Socialist Party. And in the area of the environment there are many VAT rates that make sense to be lower than they are today, from now on in renewable energy production equipment and in equipment for reuse of waste water. We are also proposing the exemption from payment of IMT for permanent own housing. The IMT is successor to the sisa, that tax that many said was the stupidest tax in the world; it did not improve much in terms of QI (Quient of intelligence). The dichotomy between lower taxes and having a social state is false. Only a free economy free of fiscal suffocation can bear the social state that the Portuguese deserve.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u188	Mrs Olga Silvestre from the PSD now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u189	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government and Members of the Commission. Ladies and gentlemen, taking good care of the elders is honoring the past and anticipating the future. at this time, care at home is extremely important as an alternative to institutionalization, which implies, due to need, having to use employment contracts or service delivery with formal caregivers. Personalized care provided to the dependent person is, in themselves, an advantage for effective recovery, however they represent a burden for the family and do not benefit from tax recognition, which is duly unfair, because the family thus has neither support nor tax benefit. This also strictly violates the principle of equality, because the same service, if provided by a home, has tax benefit, with a limit, is true. Thus, in order to correct this injustice, the PSD proposal should be voted in favour, because the sun when it is born is for all. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u190	Mrs Mariana Mortágua from the Left Block has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u191	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in the IRS we will vote in favour of increasing the minimum of existence, which we believe to be a measure of the most basic justice, especially in a country where wages are still so low, where people live with so little. I must say I didn't want to believe it when I saw how far the PS presents. And I think it is a paradigmatic measure of the little, little, small spirit with which the Socialist Party and the Government have addressed the current crisis and how this Budget can or can not be an instrument to combat the crisis. The PS admits that the salaries are low, Mrs Vera Braz said, here, to whoever she wanted to hear, that people should not stay, at the end of their work and at the end of paying taxes, with a net income that is insufficient to live. If this premise is true, the PS makes a proposal that increases the minimum existence by 100 €, but only by 2021. In 2022, people who could not live with the minimum necessary again have to live below that minimum because the proposal returns to its original measure. If there was an area where a structural measure was needed it was in this, increasing the minimum of existence so that people could initially have sufficient net income to live with dignity and not in this basic measure the PS was able to adopt a structural change. He made a temporary change: 100 €, in 2021. Ladies and gentlemen. Members in the IRS will follow the densification of the concept of stable establishment — it is important to combat abusive tax planning — we will follow a measure to bring down the IRC of SMEs to 15 % in the first 15 000 € of collectable material and also a measure to eliminate or suspend payment on behalf of small and medium-sized enterprises. We just wanted to leave a note: in this State budget, there is a huge spread of tax measures, as if the tax benefits to businesses were the only answer to the crisis. It does not invest in culture, but more tax benefits to the mecenate for culture; it does not invest in hospitals, but tax benefits to the mecenate for hospitals; there is no program to avoid food waste, then it is deduced, in a aggravated way, the donations of food waste in IRC. And this applies to many other areas. What we understand is that in many of these areas it would be more beneficial to have less extensive tax benefits and somehow blind to its specific impact and that this money could be used to support small and medium-sized enterprises, in particular the payment of wages. But this is a choice of economic policy instruments and the Left Block has made its own. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u192	Mrs. Members, let us turn to the proposal, the PSD, for the addition of Article 220. o -A — Addition to the Tax Code on the Income of Single Persons, exempt from income. Mr Alexandre Poço, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u193	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, young people do not find in this State budget a significant response in terms of income. And if, last year, the Government of the Socialist Party created the youth IRS, we believe that this programme affects the principle of equality between dependent and self-employed workers. Therefore, the proposal that the PSD brings to this House and on which we appeal to the sense of vote of the parties is that from 2021 onwards young people, regardless of their income from category A — dependent work — or from category B — independent work — can have access to the IRS Youth regime. On the other hand, given that we are experiencing a serious economic and social crisis that, firstly, affects generations that have their most vulnerable income, generations that have recently entered the labour market, we also understand that IRS Young should be increased from three to five years and from 26 to the maximum 30 years old. It is time to correct this injustice under the IRS Code. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u194	Mr. Under-Secretary of State and Tax Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u195	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Alexandre Poço, I begin by answering your last question, which is even simpler, telling you the following: I had the opportunity a few months ago, when I presented the State Budget for 2021, in reply to Mrs Sofia Marques, to give you an explanation regarding the IRS Youth. Allow me, firstly, to note that the President of JSD welcomes the government's measure of creating IRS Young. That is why I would like to congratulate you on your democratic fair play. Secondly, I would like to repeat what, as I said, I had the opportunity to discuss with Mrs Sofia Marques, who at the time raised this issue.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u196	Sofia Matos!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u197	I'm sorry, Mrs. Sofia Matos. The honourable Member raised the question of why it applies only to dependent work and does not apply to self-employment. At the time, I had the opportunity to say that, even at the initiative of my predecessor, the CDS, was introduced in the IRS Code in relation to category B, independent work, the exclusion of taxation in the first two years. In the first year, it has a tax exclusion of 50 % and in the second year it has a tax exclusion of 25 %. What was unfair, because young dependent workers did not have the same regime. What IRS Jovem did was put back that regime and see there, honourable Member, that we were inspired by a previous decision, but that was a decision limited to self-employment. That is why, Mr President, I think that, like Mrs Matos at the time, Mr Matos has been clarified, he may now have the opportunity to review his position on injustice. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to raise a very important point, which is the minimum of existence. Mrs Mariana Mortágua is not present, but I am sure she will follow my answer. What structurally was done in relation to the minimum of existence was in 2018 with the agreement of the PS, the Left Block, the PCP, the Green Party. At the time, what did we agree with? At the time, the minimum of existence had a fixed value without any update formula. Therefore, from a structural point of view, what we changed was the way it was calculated, how it reached the minimum of existence and this value was indexed to the update of the IAS (social support indexer). It was also a norm saying that it could never be less than the national minimum wage. What happened this year was absolutely extraordinary because, as has already been said in this debate, with zero inflation there is no update of the IAS. Now, it was because there was no update of the IAS that an extraordinary measure was taken. Since the structural measure in this extraordinary context did not respond, what we sought to do was an update of the same level as the standard updates so that taxpayers, when they liquidate the IRS in 2021 compared to 2020, can already have an adjustment of the minimum existence, which would not exist because, with the structural formula, there is no such update. Our expectation is, of course, that these normal updates, this functioning of the formula once again exist with the resumption of economic and social conditions. If that doesn't happen, we'll be here to look and see if there's a need for action like the one we're taking here. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, may I also refer to the update of the steps scheduled for 2021, on which Mrs Cecilia Meireles had the opportunity to bring to breakfast. Madam Member, we have been quite transparent about this: we have an unforeseeable situation, which has not existed in modern times, and I think we cannot be talking about the unpredictable situation and, at the same time, want to take measures that are not compatible with that unforeseeable situation. What the government did was: the fiscal, structural relief, which it had planned for 2021 at IRS could not be done in 2021, but we did not cease to have a measure that is important and continuity with what we have been doing, which is that of adjusting the retention tables at the source to, with the same value, return the liquidity. It's not a tax change, it's a permanent change, because then we're not going back on these restraint tables. There is no doubt about the compromise we have with the progressiveness of the IRS. But, Mrs. Member, who is against more steps of IRS is the party to which it belongs. I cannot understand how it comes here to say what I said, after the history you have—that I, in fact, fail to remind you—about the increase in taxes! What we will always refuse is what the Liberal Initiative here proposes, which is more or less to make a single rate of IRS, which only benefits the richest and has a loss of revenue which undermines the capacity of the State to respond. We will not follow this old flag of the Liberal Initiative, nor that flag that also arrives. It is a flag that will have to wait until the PSD decides to make a majority with these parties and this unique rate of IRS, which we refuse. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u198	Mrs. Members, let us turn to Article 226. o — Amendment to the Tax Code on the Income of Collective Persons. Mrs Cecilia Meireles from the CDS-PP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u199	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, I would just like to give an explanation about the IRS, which I believe is not an explanation because it is known to everyone, but what I asked was for the tax relief of EUR 200 million. I am against the escalation, I think it is ideal that we should have fewer steps, but I am in favour of a tax relief in IRS, as the government was also in favour. I would just like to point out the following because this is the truth: when Mr Secretary says that there is a question of unpredictability here and that we cannot at this time be relieving the IRS because we have no margin for this and we do not know what is expected of us, I only tell him that these are his priorities, because for everything that he had to agree with the PCP, with the ENP, with the NAP and he knows who else he had margin with. There are many measures... look, only in the general debate was 300 million, which is superior to this planned fiscal relief. These were their priorities. I'm telling you that for the CDS the priority would be that of tax relief in IRS. They are different priorities, and it is good that there is this clarity and then everyone knows what they count. With regard to businesses and IRC, the CDS presents—and indeed maintains consistently—a proposal for a downgrade of the IRC. And, yes, at this time of pandemic, there is a difference. On the one hand, we put forward proposals to support the treasury of companies, which, translated, means that companies continue to have money to pay wages. E, ladies and gentlemen. Members, employment, contrary to what some here seem to imagine, is not protected by legislation. Employment is protected and maintained if companies continue to have money to pay wages. If your treasury doesn't give it to you, Mrs. and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, you can make the laws all you understand, but I assure you that we are going to have an increase in unemployment, and that unemployment has to be stopped. That is why it is so vital to support the treasury of companies. On the other hand, we present measures to stimulate investment and employment, while also maintaining the reduction of the IRC rate. With regard to VAT, and because I will not have another opportunity to talk about it, I would like to point out that the only tax relief proposal we have here is the so-called 'VATucher', which is completely out of date in the face of the situation, because of what the restoration needs is very different support. Now, and since applications for special support for restoration are scheduled to begin tomorrow, 25th day, I would like to know if you confirm that they start tomorrow, 25th day, and when you can count on the first payments. I would also like to know why the loss assessment is made compared to 2020, a year in which there was confinement and in which many restaurants were closed. Finally, I would like to point out that the CDS will look at each of the VAT proposals that are submitted, will take a position on each one, but I would like to reiterate that it is urgent that a serious and relative analysis of the VAT rate tables, including the minimum, intermediate and normal, should be made. We cannot, Budget behind Budget, continue to analyze this subject, produce news titles, analyzing this or that product without looking at the fundamental issues of relative justice between products.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u200	Mr Fernando Anastácio, from the PS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u201	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members, this is indeed a budget where businesses and the economy are a priority. The narrative on the right that has as its only solution to support companies the always claimed reduction of IRC does not collect, and the evidence of the facts proves so. Economic stimulus and business support in the current context may and should have other expressions. If there were any doubts, fiscal stability is of the greatest importance, how well they recognize and appreciate entrepreneurs and how, at the moment, this is evidenced, in particular when we all know that the always used recipe, when we have a crisis on the right, has a solution: the increase in taxes. unlike the right, which in times of crisis always increases taxes, the PS preserves fiscal stability and has friendly policies, from a fiscal point of view, for companies. If there was any doubt that we were counting on companies to overcome the crisis we are facing, the same is completely undone when we are faced with measures that particularly value investment in the current context. We are talking about investment, a decisive reality for economic growth. in this budget, for example, we have an extraordinary tax credit to the investment that will continue in force in 2021, allowing to deduct the collection of IRC up to 20 % of its expenditure up to EUR 5 million. It will also create a fiscal incentive for small and medium-sized enterprises in the sense of internationalisation, and it will be crucial to create a favourable environment for this investment. Does anyone doubt that public investment, which will increase by 23 %, will contribute to this? A public investment based on structural investments, investment within the framework of the measures provided for in the Economic and Social Stabilization Programme and also in the Resilient Plan. This investment will be an engine, a lever and an effective opportunity for the economic and social fabric, an opportunity for companies. But there are also effective tax relief measures. I stress that the increase in autonomous taxation will be eliminated in micro, small and medium-sized enterprises that usually had no damage, but which may be caused by the pandemic. To talk about support for companies in this budget is also to talk about new lines of credit with public guarantees to support the financing of companies; to extend the period of bank moratoriums until September 2021 ; to propose, for example, that of Layoff to 100 %, which will ensure in 2021 support for the resumption of business activity and thus preserve jobs and safeguard the productive capacity of companies. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the economy, companies and economic recovery are realities that do not exempt the internal market. Measures such as increased wages, increased pensions, increased unemployment allowance, reduced electricity VAT, reduced IRS retention tables and new social benefits increase the income available to families and constitute an effective stimulus to increasing economic activity, converging the relaunch of the economy. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the examples and concrete measures I have just mentioned are a reality in this State budget and they guarantee that, also in terms of support for the economy and businesses, the government and the PS do not give up. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u202	We move on to the discussion of Article 227. o — Transitional provision in the context of income tax for legal persons. Mr Afonso Oliveira, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u203	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members, the State budget, contrary to what we have heard in this last intervention, has no measures for companies. And here we have two options: either we accept this fatality or we do something. The PSD option is clearly to do something about this situation that is not in favour of companies and that it is worth supporting companies that have the most difficulties at this stage that we are living in. As you know, we have put forward a proposal to suspend payment on behalf of IRC for small and medium-sized enterprises and cooperatives, but we understand that the government, the country, the State budget, the public accounts have need for treasury, and we need to understand this difficulty. in this circumstance, we will propose an amendment to our proposal, suspending payment on behalf of the IRC with effect only in the first quarter of 2021 for small and medium-sized enterprises and cooperatives with 25 % breakdown of economic activity compared to the same period of 2019. So here is an amendment that has to do with the need to continue to support companies and also to understand the needs of the State. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u204	With regard to this article of the bill, Mr Artur Sovereign Andrade has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u205	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, as mentioned above, companies, because of liquidity or cash problems, because they are experiencing enormous difficulties rather than seeking profits, what they want is to survive. Since in business stimuli the main inspiration of this State budget is « D. Inertia" means the PSD that there should be at least one radar of minimum thresholds on which this break should agree. One of them will be the one who was previously exposed to, in terms of payments on behalf of IRC, for exercises in which there will be no profit, make no sense to be forwarding money to the State. Of course, in honor of the constitutional imperative of taxation for real income and because the collection must take place according to the contribution capacity generated in the property of the taxable person. from then that anyone with more than 20 kg understands that, in an exercise in which there will be damage, being forwarding money to the State is an impossibility and a violation, even of constitutional precepts that are structural, such as forcing to pay something without having generated the capacity for so much. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u206	We continue with the discussion of a proposal submitted by the CFP to add an article 228. o -A — Amendment to List II annexed to the VAT Code. Mr Bruno Dias of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u207	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members, the CFP proposals to support and defend micro, small and medium-sized enterprises have concrete measures that cannot be denied to these thousands and thousands of small entrepreneurs and workers in the face of the dramatic situation they are in. First of all, it is necessary to approve the CFP proposal for non-discrimination of undertakings in access to support, in order to end unacceptable exclusions, either by antiquity, by accounting regime, by black lists of banks, etc. Support for management partners should be maintained in view of the reduction of economic activity, without the unjustified limitations imposed on the value of this social support. It is necessary to ensure financial support for businesses in order to defend jobs and wages as a whole, because it is not possible to sell what wages cannot afford, even if some want to ignore that reality. It is necessary to take urgent and effective measures to respond to the very serious problem of business rentals, both in shopping centres and in all establishments with street doors, from north to south of the country, which have so far had no support in reducing income because the PCP proposals have been dropped. Now is the time to correct that injustice. It is necessary to suspend payment on behalf of IRC in 2021, taking up the measure proposed by the CFP : to support the treasury of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises and not to give tax coupons to large economic groups. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, in this article we are presenting, we need to comply with the process of reducing VAT on restoration. Restaurants face desperate situations throughout the country and demand urgent measures. First of all, it is necessary to turn to all products and services once and for all, the VAT of restoration for the value which should never have increased. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, the importance of this business fabric and the urgency of defending it, if not to abandon it at the mercy of this situation, are required to take concrete, urgent, fair and effective measures. This is the meaning of the CFP proposals. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u208	We have moved on to the discussion of the proposal submitted by the PSD for the addition of Article 219. o-F — Special plan to support the economy of Fatima. Mr. João Moura, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u209	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, Mr. Members, the proposal presented by the PSD aims to respond to the dramatic situation of the economic and tourist activity of Fatima. We present a set of measures that meet the demands of local actors, which aim to minimize the effect and impact of the pandemic. The PSD recently convened an urgent debate in which it sought to demonstrate the uniqueness and specificity of Fatima, Fatima tourism and its importance in national tourism. Almost all parliamentary groups, in the words they have spoken here, have shown to be sensitive and available to help resolve the problem. We have witnessed a rare moment when they are inspired by political and religious prejudices. Today, we only ask for consistency, especially to the honourable Members. Members of the Socialist Party, coherence of actions with words. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u210	We now move on to the discussion of Article 229. o — Other provisions under value added tax. Mrs Jamila Madeira from the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u211	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in line with what has been done in the previous legislature and what has been done this year, in the midst of this terrible pandemic, this State budget is concerned about people, recovering the economy and being socially responsible. If we remember February 2020, we will know how devastating and devastating this tsunami has been for the Portuguese economy, which is the COVID-19 pandemic. in this context, the government has been at first with companies and people, promoting public support and VAT exemptions, mobilising all to ensure the maintenance of employment levels. To this end, consumption stimuli arise and remain in this State budget. Taxation around VAT reflects this: concern about people and businesses. Portugal has about 15 % of its economic return in tourism and therefore the creation of VATucher — which, in addition to all the dedicated economic plan which the Government has recently launched, aims to create incentives for consumption in the sectors of restoration, housing and culture — is a critical instrument. This will take place during 2021 and will allow consumers to accumulate 100 % of the VAT they spend in these sectors in the next quarter. About 200 million euros of tax credit to relaunch our economy. This is also the State budget which provides for the reduction of the electricity VAT rate for power up to 6, 9 kVA. This measure covers 80 % of consumers and focuses on reducing another tax injustice that was previously created by the right-wing government. More than EUR 150 million of budgetary effort to support families. The extension of the refund to the scientific research centres of higher education institutions, a political commitment, is here a commitment to benefit from the research and development of our country. That is the only way to support people, businesses and the future. Only then does the country recover to get out of this overwhelming economic crisis that has plagued us. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u212	We proceeded to the discussion of the proposal submitted by the NAP to add Article 229. o -A — Amendment to List I annexed to the VAT Code. I begin by giving the floor to Mr. Ricardo Vicente of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u213	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members and Members of Parliament, the NAP has proposed in this State budget the increase of VAT for mineral fertilizers and for some plant protection products, a proposal which has accepted the agreement of the Government and the Socialist Party. It was even announced by the Minister of Agriculture with pump and circumstances. It could be a mere propaganda proposal, but it's worse than that. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u214	This increase in VAT means an increase in expenditure that only affects small agriculture and family farming, because the landowners of superintensive olives and intensive livestock, because their accounting allows, comes at the end of the year and regains the value of VAT. This proposal is, therefore, socially unfair and contrary to the principles of climate justice, because it essentially harms the most vulnerable and the least contribute to environmental destruction. Also from the environmental point of view, it is based on the wrong criteria, because it does not promote any change to the production model and does not differentiate the various types of organic or mineral products. The application of fertilizers in excess of soil and water lines, whether they are organic or mineral fertilizers. Both sources must be protected and are used in extensive, intensive and biological conventional agriculture. The necessary change needs public policies of climate justice, with the protection of the most vulnerable and with refusal of monoculture models, consume these fertilizers in the form of sardine oil or mineral state. The decarbonisation and reduction of pollution of agricultural systems depend on the combination between optimizing factor consumption and replacing it with ecological processes. Therefore, the Left Block votes against the NAP's proposal to raise VAT and advocates an ecological transition programme that does not leave the small farmers and the most vulnerable behind. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u215	Mrs Catarina Rocha Ferreira, PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u216	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is in this article that changes to the VAT rate are the key to the approval of the State budget for 2021. In an incomprehensible and totally irresponsible way, the Government is thinking of making the NAP proposal more fiscally worsen throughout the agricultural sector by increasing the VAT rate. In this way, the Government sells national agriculture by three votes. The increase in costs in synthetic fertilizers and non-organic fertilizers reflects the slight and deeply articulated form of government decision-making. And it will be more penalizing precisely for the smaller ones, for the less competitive ones, for those who have no organised accounting, for those whose risk of abandonment of agriculture and consequently of abandonment of the territory is greater. More than a technical error, more than a strategic error, this is a mistake that takes on a political dimension at the level of the territory and the environment, because without agriculture, it is conventional, biologically, in a business, family or subsistence way, there is no environment. The PSD deeply regrets that agriculture continues to be irrelevant to the current government and serves as an exchange currency for the approval of the Budget. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u217	The proposal submitted by the PSD for the addition of Article 209 is followed. o -A— More sustainable buildings in the fight against energy poverty. Mrs Filipa Roseta from the PSD has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u218	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, one in five families in Portugal, have no money to warm up the house in winter. In addition, in 2019, people who died inside the house were identified because of the cold effect. This is called energy poverty and is of the worst indicators of Portugal in the sustainable development objectives identified by the United Nations. The government has a programme called « More Sustainable Buildings », which supports the greatly lost small works to reduce the energy bill of several families. What we are proposing is that this programme be used to combat energy poverty. The people who need are already identified — they are the beneficiaries of the social energy tariff — and, among them, we propose that older people benefit themselves, in order to emphasize dignity in aging.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u219	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u220	What we are proposing, in fact, is a double saving, because by reducing the energy needs of the beneficiaries of the social tariff, we are also reducing the need for rates to support it. But, above all, what we want to ensure is that the millions come to whom they need and not to whom they can, whom they know, to whom they are in the middle. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u221	What we have to ensure, with so many people experiencing problems with the pandemic, is that the criteria are clear. Support programmes cannot be lotaries of luck. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u222	We shall now examine the proposal submitted by the NAP to add Article 220. o -A — Environmental deductions. Mrs Inês Sousa Real from the NAP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u223	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, as far as agriculture is concerned, I would like to say that when there are no soils or waters to explore, we will certainly not have agriculture in our country, but, with that, they do not seem to be really concerned. With regard to environmental deductions, it is essential to be aware that we need to change the paradigm in which we live and put in public accounts an equation that has not been present so far, which is that of environmental sustainability. in this Budget, we have to actually choose who we are going to hand over to, if we want an Budget that somehow continues to fund fossil fuels or whether we are going to support wages and families. It is in this sense that the NAP proposes to deduct expenditure on the production of renewable energy — the so-called 'clean energy' — as well as on the repair of household or even electronic equipment, encouraging a circular economy and combating energy poverty. On the other hand, as we have been defending, and as the Secretary-General of the United Nations ( United Nations ) himself defends, to stop subsidies for fossil fuels and also to end tax exemptions on petroleum products, particularly in air and maritime transport, or in energy production, would allow greater budgetary balance to be achieved so that, for example, the review of the steps of IRS, such steps, which today, above all, reach 54 % of the population, particularly among the 3. o and 6. oescalon, with an incidence of 74 % of the tax. The same is true of the possibility of supporting the economy and companies themselves. So at this moment, we actually have the possibility of choosing who we are going to give our hand to, that is, whether we are going to support families and promote greater fiscal justice or whether we are going to continue to subsidize, perversely, what has been polluting and jeopardizing the environment.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u224	We looked at the proposal submitted by the PS to add an article 230. o -A — Amendment to the code of value added tax, approved by Decree-Law No 394 - B / 84 of 26 December. Mrs. Marta Freitas of the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u225	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in times of socio-economic crisis, priorities are established — people are undoubtedly at the centre of intervention — and the creation of better conditions for access to housing should be the target of attention. Thus, for the Government of the Socialist Party, an increase in public housing supply is a priority. And urban rehabilitation is a strategic instrument that is intended to be followed at this time, in the context of public housing policies, being the predominant form of intervention both at the level of the building, or at the level of urban spaces. It is therefore necessary to adopt measures to ensure that this is a reality throughout the national territory. It is necessary to ensure harmonisation of the rules applicable both in continental territory and in autonomous regions, and the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group therefore intends to promote justice, so that the same conditions exist throughout the national territory, and to respond to a request from the autonomous regions, which is to extend the application of the reduced rate of VAT, in rehabilitation undertakings, to regional public authorities competent in the housing and management of the housing park. More housing and rehabilitation is thus promoted in the Autonomous Regions of Madeira and the Azores and throughout the continental territory. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u226	The proposal submitted by the CDS-PP for the addition of Article 229 is followed. o -A — Amendment to List I annexed to the VAT Code. Mrs Ana Rita Bessa from the CDS-PP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u227	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the State budget for 2020, even before the pandemic, was adopted a discriminatory measure against the Tauromachian sector, increasing the VAT of Tauromachic shows to 23 %, contrary to the other cultural activities, the VAT of which remained 6 %. It was clear that for this government there are two cultures, a culture of the first, although it, in times of pandemic, does not deserve great consideration, and a culture of the second, in which Portuguese traditions are punished by tax. For the CDS it is very simple: if Mrs. Minister and some Mrs. Members don't like bullfighting, they can always choose not to go, they can always choose not to see, they can always choose until they take their children to these shows. They are in the exercise of their full and legitimate right. There are many other cultural contents that other people also consider inappropriate and offensive and to these people would recommend exactly the same choice. Now, choosing to penalize what you don't like either by tax or by means of a future restriction of public television publishing choices is unacceptable in democracy. Therefore, the CDS submits a proposal to correct this error and re-includes the 6 % tauromakia in VAT, such as the other cultural activities.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u228	We turn to Article 234. o — Amendment to the Code of Special Consumption Taxes. Mrs Claúdia André of the PSD has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u229	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is time to prove who is really interested in the interior of the country and in its environmental preservation. We propose the reduction of alcohol tax on products derived from the master, why? Because the master is an autochthonous plant of the inner saws of the most resistant to forest fires; because this is how microenterprises are supported, with many difficulties, within the country;...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u230	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u231	... because it is a measure that directly supports all those who work hard in the forest; and because it is a measure that also promotes the fixation of the population in the unpopulated territories of the interior. In short, for the environmental and human reasons implied here, the reduction of this tax will be offset by all the positive consequences of it. We therefore call on the vote in favour of this proposal. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u232	The assessment of Article 237 is followed. o — Transitional provisions on oil and energy products. Mr Emídio Guerreiro, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u233	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Member of the Government, the Government intends to apply an additional rate on cogeneration units existing in industrial enterprises. Understanding and valuing the environmental concerns that are at the root of this proposal, we have sincere doubts as to when it is being applied. We are in full pandemic and our textile industry is experiencing great difficulties. The government, which says it wants to help companies, with this measure, does not help our textile industry, before, penalises it, increasing the costs of context and withdrawing competitiveness from this strategic sector. Now it is time to help companies keep jobs and not overload them with more costs. And, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, heat and steam will continue to have to be used in the industrial process; if it is not with cogenerations, we will watch the reactivation of old fuel or gas boilers, thereby penalizing the environment and also the competitiveness of our companies. Will it make more sense to wait for the end of the pandemic and for the normalization of market conditions in the textile sector? Oh, my God! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u234	Tomorrow, yes, today, no! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u235	We turn to Article 239. o — Amendment to the Code of Municipal Property Tax. Mr José Luís Ferreira of the ENP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u236	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, after the Government has accepted a proposal from the Greens to exclude public support from the pandemic, the bodies linked to offshore — a proposal contained in the original draft law that the Government has brought to us — the Greens now bring in two more proposals on tax havens, one in IMI and one in municipal tax on onerous transfers of real estate. As you know, the Greens believe that tax havens must be fought, until we all know what they serve and who they serve and that they allow us to live in a world where some live in paradises you stay and others in real tax hells. While this mechanism is not definitely removed from tax systems, as the Greens defend, it is important to reduce tax planning opportunities when they are concerned with offshore residents. With these two Green proposals, an amendment to Article 239. the other amendment to Article 240. that of the proposed law, it is intended, on the one hand, to prevent an offshore owner from benefiting indirectly from the suspension of IMI taxation through the creation of a vehicle entity in national territory, and, on the other hand, from extending the increased tax rate applicable to buildings of a vehicle entity created by an entity in a offshore household. These Green proposals are therefore another small effort to bring some morality to our tax system.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u237	We turn to Article 240. o — Amendment to the Code of the Municipal Tax on Onerous Transmissions of Real Estate, which will be the last object of our assessment today. Mr Nuno Sá, from the PS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u238	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, Mr. Members, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group presents proposals for amendments in tax matters which introduce more justice and effectiveness for taxpayers and for tax administration. The Socialist Party has pursued with determination the policies and measures necessary to avoid situations of abuse, with the fight against fraud and tax evasion, while promoting the principles of legal certainty and equality. in this context, this proposal of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group includes the anonymous societies in the IMT regime, in the case of transmission of social participations in societies whose assets are mainly composed of real estate assets not affected by commercial, industrial or agricultural activity, in order to thus level with the other corporate legal forms the rules of taxation, eliminating the opportunities of tax planning and unjustified inequality, for example, with societies per quota. It is also a proposal by the Socialist Party to add to the marks of social justice and to promote a fair economy with equality in the treatment of taxpayers, which characterize the proposed State budget law. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u239	Mr. Under-Secretary of State and Tax Affairs, Antonio Mendes, the floor is V. Exa.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u240	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I have, of course, accompanied the debate with a great deal of attention and interest and let me point out, on behalf of the Government, three points, in particular, that I am looking, for example, at Mr José Luís Ferreira and, in my initial speech, I am referring precisely to the proposals that the honourable Member stressed here and which I think are very important for the preservation of taxable bases. As regards the question put by Mrs Cecilia Meireles on the fulfilment of the deadline for the submission of applications to the APOIAR Programme, I just wanted to confirm that tomorrow, through the Balcão 2020, the submission of applications will be available. This was the information that I also obtained during the debate. As far as Mr Emídio Guerreiro has put it, I would like to say that I understand what he says, but I would also like to reflect on the framework for the end of the ISP exemptions we are doing. I think, in fact, they forgive me the immodesty, which is a good example of what must be the most structural tax transformations. That is, for three consecutive years we have been eliminating exemptions that are harmful to the environment and we have chosen exactly the elimination of ISP exemptions. We started by producing coal and coal coke electricity and we are aware that, as we have this evolution, we are reaching more sectors, sectors that we want to change behaviors and that can transit to cleaner energies. As you know, last year we introduced natural gas and still maintained 90 % exemption, this year, within the defined trajectory, the exemption remains - 80 % - therefore it is not a total elimination of the exemption, because this year it remains - 80 % - and we have extended, within natural gas, to cogeneration. All this is being done in such a way as to give predictability to economic agents for a transition that is inevitable, but we want it to be a fair transition. [[Protests by PSD MP Emídio Guerreiro.]] We do not interrupt the path we had defined, and therefore we are gradually eliminating environmentally harmful subsidies. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I understand the discussion that may exist between the preservation of the environment and the preservation of the economy...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u241	Be serious!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u242	...and so we have to do something balanced. And this trajectory that we have been following, I repeat, since 2018, is a balanced trajectory, but it aims exactly a fair transition and I am convinced that it responds well to what are the challenges that the country has with regard to energy transition and climate change. [[Protests by PSD MP Emídio Guerreiro.]] I would also like to make a reference to Mr Afonso Oliveira's statement on the issue of payments on behalf of the Committee on Budgets and allow me, ladies and gentlemen. Members, who may also focus on a point that I think is relevant on this issue. We have a way of operating income taxes that this government did not invent. Income taxes operate on the basis of taxation in the year itself, in advance of tax and with adjustment in the following year. It's like this with the IRS. Every month we hold the IRS source of our salary and the following year we make the adjustment and either we have a refund or we pay. With companies it is exactly the same way, but, instead of having a monthly retention, three payments are instituted on account. The way in which these payments are drawn is that, on the basis of the result of the previous year, the tax result of the current year will be projected, the payments on the account of this “bitola” — allow me to express it — and adjust the following year. And the following year, when model 22 is delivered, as in the IRS, or there is a refund or there is an additional payment and there may even be nullity. However, there is one point that is very important in IRC and differs from IRS. It is that in IRS all income, except that which is exempt, up to the minimum of existence, has a retention rate in the source; in IRC, it is only paid on the basis of the tax profit that is presented. The way in which the PSD originally presented the proposal on payments on account—and I do not know the new—was that all companies...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u243	Not all of them!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u244	I'm sorry. The way the proposal initially presented was for all companies and later clarified that it was only for small and medium-sized enterprises. It was previously for all companies and was later corrected for small and medium-sized enterprises. What they are saying is that they only make payments on behalf of 2021 companies that made profits by 2020. In other words, despite the pandemic, despite the fall in the Product of 8 %, these companies maintained the ability to generate income that generate them a tax profit. That is why this proposal, in the way the PSD submitted it and which was re-corrected today, said that irrespective of what happened to these companies, any company, in the latest version, small and medium-sized company that, despite the pandemic crisis, had made no profit in 2020, did not make payments on account of 2021. Today, the assessment report that UTAO made on this measure and which I read, explained what I had already had the opportunity to say publicly. It meant that of the EUR 1500 million revenue by 2020, we had to devote ourselves to covering these EUR 1500 million because for all small and medium-sized enterprises that had profited, for everyone irrespective of their situation, we did not have that revenue. So we were, in a way, limiting what is the capacity of the State to respond according to a measure which, in the way it was designed — I repeat, in the way it was designed — seemed to us to the government, deeply unfair. That is why we have never had doubts about following the Communist Party's proposal on payments on account and here I would like to welcome the evolution of the PSD in this matter. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u245	Mrs. Members with regard to the proposal for an addendum to Article 136. o -A, the NAP intended to make a short intervention of 30 seconds. I wonder if anyone opposes you. [[Pause.]] In the absence of opposition, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u246	Mr President, thank you very much for your understanding. With regard to support for the financing of Tauromachy, it is not surprising that we see the CDS and the Arrival come here to give the manoeuvring that are the interests installed in this sector. However, the NAP does not forget the complex context in which we live, particularly the socio-economic situation of families, as well as what has been an oxygen balloon for these activities. And because we want a budget that is not only socially and economically fair, but also in terms of the ethics and respect we have with animals that we will never follow the CDS proposal.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u247	No one was expecting that!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u248	More, Mrs Deputies: we want to defend the end of all support and also the end of the presence of minors in Tauromachic shows until the abolition occurs, because it will happen.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u249	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow's agenda, which will take place from 10 a.m., repeats today's agenda, obviously referring the first point to different rules. Before I close the session, I give the floor to Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha, who has a communication to make. Please, Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u250	Thank you very much, Mr President. It is to realize that you were present by video conference. PSD Members Sérgio Marques and Duarte Marques and PS Miguel Matos and Luís Moreira Testa.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-24.u251	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, thank you very much and continue to do good work. The session is closed. [[It was 13 hours and 44 minutes.]]
