ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-08.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists. The session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 5 minutes.]] Before we begin our work, I give the floor to the Secretary of the Bureau, Maria da Luz Rosinha, who has several important information to pass on to you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-08.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, you have entered the Bureau and Parliamentary Assessment No 26 / XIV / 1 has been admitted. a ( BE ) — Concerning Decree-Law No 28 -A / 2020 of 26 June establishing the legal regime for the conversion of the landscape. Bills Nos 467 / XIV / 1 were also admitted. a ( PAN) — Strengthens the guarantees of the employees of the assigning entity by making the tenth amendment to the General Law on Public Works, as annexed to Law No 35 / 2014 of 20 June 471 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Amends the Annex to Law No 52 / 2019 of 31 July by harmonising the content of the Single Declaration of Income, Heritage, Interests, Incompatibilities and Impediments with the respective form, which falls to 14. the Commission, and 472 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Establishs equality in the exercise of parenthood in the event of adoption and promotes the father's follow-up to prenatal consultations ( tenth amendment to the Labour Code and sixth amendment to Decree-Law No 91 / 2009 of 9 April ), which falls to 10. the Commission. They also entered the Bureau, and were admitted, the Resolution Projects No. 558 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends the extension of the provision of school meals to students receiving school social action during summer holidays, which falls to 8. the Commission, 561 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government create a social tariff for access to Internet services which falls to 6. the Commission, 564 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — by promoting measures to defend safety and public health in rail transport to combat the epidemic of COVID-19, which falls to 6. the Commission, 565 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — at the end of the layoff scheme in public transport undertakings, which falls to 6. the Commission, and 566 / XIV / 1. a ( CAE ) — Adoption by the Assembly of the European elections initiatives considered as priority within the framework of the European Commission's 2020 work programme. I'm done, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-08.u3	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, pursuant to Article 64 ( b ). the Rules of Procedure, we will now start a debate on « Alternative policy and response to the needs of the Portuguese people : food sovereignty, production and employment », scheduled by the CFP. To initiate the debate, Mr António Filipe of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-08.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Winning the pandemic and mitigating its terrible consequences at all levels is the central objective that has guided our lives, but if there is a broad national consensus on this need, it is no longer the adoption of the measures necessary to achieve this goal. For the CFP, the measures adopted to mitigate the economic and social consequences of the pandemic are far from what would be necessary to support who should indeed be supported and, instead, some of the measures taken will ultimately favour those who are already the most favoured. This was the general sense of the Supplementary Budget recently approved in this House and which, despite some timely measures of a positive sense, maintained the imbalance between the benefits and privileges of capital and the lack of response to the problems of workers and the people and which therefore deserved the vote against the CFP. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, when we finally succeed in overcoming this pandemic, which we hope will happen as soon as possible, we will be confronted with a dramatic economic and social situation, with very high levels of unemployment, a very serious economic recession, a further weakening of the workers' situation, the ruin of thousands of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, irreconcilable losses in sectors of activity that have been anchored by the national economy and with increasing poverty and inequality. In addition, this pandemic has highlighted our greatest vulnerabilities: the inadequacies of public services, the precarious situation of workers, the excessive external dependence, the absence of a sovereign policy. In view of what we have before us, the measures necessary to deal with the crisis are only possible with another policy, in breach with that which has marked decisively in the last decades.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-08.u5	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-08.u6	New policies, capable of starting a new course, that take the proper lessons from the fragility and dependence to which the right policies and the rotationalism of the alternance without alternative led the country. If the solution called for to get out of this crisis is to place hope in the coming of European funds or rely on solidarity from the European Union that has never gone through a fiction, then there will be no solution to development and progress for our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-08.u7	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-08.u8	The measures of the so-called « Recovery Fund », announced by the European Commission, do not mean any change in the direction of policies of the past. Hypocrisy and financial and political manipulations, such measures do not nullify the debt line and aim, essentially, to increase the drain of public resources to monopolies, particularly the main economic powers, and to take steps to deepen the transfer of shares from national sovereignty to the supranational sphere. To whom we are told that the solution to national problems has to be found within the framework of the European Union, we cannot but wonder what the solution they propose if the European Union's response to this crisis follows the same recipe imposed on us by the Troikas between 2009 and 2015. In 2009, in the face of a crisis generated by the overwhelming greed of great national and international capital, the so-called aid that came to us from the European Union was the humiliation and imposition of austerity policies aimed at punishing the Portuguese people because they would allegedly have lived above their possibilities. The Portuguese people suffered enough not to forget these times, to realize that the solidarity of the European Union does not pass from a vain word, nor do they forget those who, between 2009 and 2015, defended the inevitability and virtuous character of austerity and did everything to impose and justify it. The result of these years was well seen: rich and richer, poorer and poorer, degraded public services, frozen professional careers, cuts in wages, pensions and social support. It is known that the austerity ar autos have never complied with the replacement of rights and incomes which the Portuguese have gained in the last five years, which have challenged, one by one, the measures for the replacement of rights and incomes and that they have refused to recognize that it was the replacement of rights and incomes the key to the recovery of the Portuguese economy in recent years. And we cannot ignore the fact that the austere aristocracies already see in the economic crisis generated by the pandemic a new justification for reimposing the exploitation and impoverishment measures they have always defended. The offer, acceptance and high patronage of the return to a central block of bad memory make the worst afraid. They are afraid that, if that is the path followed, of subservience towards the path that the great national and transnational capital wants to impose upon us, we will enter a new cycle of economic and social retrogression. The CFP does not consider that such a path is inevitable. On the contrary, what we say is that this path can and should be avoided, but for that reason, Portugal needs to put in place a genuine country development programme and not a programme dictated by the criteria and agenda chosen and guided by the great powers of the European Union to serve its interests and the interests of the great multinationals. A genuine recovery and development programme requires sovereign options, requires Portugal to hold the appropriate intervention instruments in its hands and does not depend on the criteria and decisions of third parties. Portugal needs a particular agenda that looks at the country's problems without conditioning or constraints. Portugal cannot forget the important lessons taken from the current situation and cannot be ignored in the future: the importance of the role of workers and the centrality of work in society; the role of public services; the importance of national production and of having strategic sectors in the hands of the country. Portugal needs to produce here what we need to buy out; it needs to modernise and diversify economic activities; it needs to recover for the country what should never have been privatized, rather than injecting public money to promote new and ruinous privatizations; it needs to accelerate investment; it needs to acquire the equipment that the country lacks, build infrastructure, ensure essential public services. Portugal needs new solutions to respond to the delays accumulated by many years of right-wing policies, to ensure employment and to reduce the sharp inequalities and social injustices. The general increase in wages, including the national minimum wage, is a crucial issue for the country, for a fairer distribution of wealth, for the dynamisation of the national economy, to strengthen social security and ensure better pensions in the future. There will be no economic recovery if the national economic fabric is not defended, consisting mostly of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, if wages and pensions are not valued and if there is no fair remuneration for the work and the productive activities of our people. The situation in recent months demonstrates the importance of maintaining and strengthening the public nature of crucial areas; ensuring the quality and universal access to fundamental rights and services, such as health, social security, public education or access to culture; ensuring, through the ownership and management of public enterprises, the existence of economic and financial instruments to contain and reverse the degradation of the national situation; and progressively subordinate the production and economic activity to social objectives, rather than maximizing the profits of monopolistic groups. The current reality has made it very evident the central role of national production — diversified, balanced, articulated and technologically advanced — to replace imports, ensure domestic supply and exports and achieve food and energy sovereignty, as basic conditions for deciding, guaranteeing and implementing the sovereign options appropriate to the development of the country. National production is necessary to defend sovereignty and sovereignty is necessary to guarantee and promote national production. The response that the situation of the country requires is inseparable from the value of work and workers, their wages, rights and careers; from the strengthening of the National Health Service and other public services in human and material means; from a strong business sector of the State that contributes to the modernization of the productive apparatus; from the public control of the financial sector; from the defence of agriculture, fisheries and national production with the capacity to supply the country;...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-08.u9	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-08.u10	... the decisive strengthening of public investment and productive investment, which increases installed productive capacity, national productivity and production; the need for environmental protection, ecosystems and biodiversity; the realization of independent and accessible justice; the fight against corruption; the defense of the democratic regime and the fulfilment of the Constitution. in promoting this debate, the CFP assumes that this is its commitment: to fight for an alternative policy that meets the needs of the Portuguese people. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-08.u11	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, as usual, we will enter the Question Time to the speaker. To make a first request for clarification, Mr Pedro do Carmo, of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-08.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I congratulate the CFP for putting on the agenda an alternative policy of food sovereignty. The pandemic, the product of globalization, underlined the insufficiency of nations and the absence of global responses to problems, challenges and opportunities that are placed in the sphere of global dynamics. And as much as some want to raise new walls, support self-centered or transform the country into an immense archipelago, we are part of everything. The response to a huge global crisis cannot be a nexus nationalism, a lack of efficiency populism or a model of commitments for European integration in the country. What we are proposing today in this debate is that we have an apple of just a mace, a stick with only an Alentejo pig or a cardume of some kind of fish. It is as if everything did not exist and Portugal was this macier, this isolated animal or the lonely fish. Portugal is much, much more! [[Protests from PCP MP João Dias.]] The pandemic underlined two agri-food realities that may be the rule rather than the exception: our rural world is able to produce and have its products cut out on the large surfaces of the distribution of urban centers... [[Protests from PCP MP João Dias.]] ... and the Portuguese are today more aware of the importance of buying national products, supporting national producers and valuing our rural world. The truth is that reality, our rural reality, is the enemy of demagogy. Food sovereignty is to continue to support the extension of the Alqueva water perimeter to develop new agri-food projects. Food sovereignty is to support strategies and resources that can ensure the fair flow of production in the real or digital dimension. Food sovereignty is to maintain the balance between traditions and innovations, between small producers and large farms, between supply to the national market and export. There are balance points of realities that need to continue to be strengthened: the capacity of agri-food resilience of each Member State, in the context of the European Union, in an emergency framework like what we live ; the ability to incorporate value into agri-food production, further enhancing the excellence of our products; the preservation of the conditions and factors of production so that our farmers, our producers and our fishermen can continue to develop their activities in increasing harmony with the environment. Without fundamentalism, without tics from those who do not know the rural world, they do not think that we can have « sun in the air and rain in the nabal », with the sense of Portugal, our interests and participation in the European project, we must be an active part of the adjustments aimed at strengthening our food resilience in an emergency situation. We must maintain productive capacity, ensure the flow of production, raise Portuguese awareness of national choice, pay producers properly, modernize, innovate and sustain local production, as a development factor of communities, and strengthen exports. Portugal has done a lot in this agri-food area. We proved that we can do even better and better. Question: What is the vision of the PCP? Is it the food potential of European integration? For us, there is a point of balance and it is in this seed that we put ourselves, that is the harvest we want: more production, more national consumption, more resilience in an emergency situation in Portugal and Europe. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests from PCP MP João Dias.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-08.u13	For clarifications, Mrs Isabel Pires of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-08.u14	Mr President, I would like to congratulate Mr António Filipe and the CFP on the subject of today's debate, which is certainly important and all the more important at a time of crisis as we go through, which urges us to think more deeply about the economic model we want for the country. from the Left Block, we always defend the need for an economic model based, firstly, on labour rights, on the rights of those who work, and on the enhancement of the national economic fabric. When we talk about national production, we can actually talk about several sectors of activity in Portugal. And, within these, there is an essential factor for us, which has increasingly deserved discussion and debate, which is that of the strategic sectors for the economy. When we refer to this terminology, we do not use it in vain, we use it to refer to companies which in common have a great weight in the economy as a whole, but also thousands of jobs, direct and indirect, and a function of territorial cohesion or technological advancement for the country, among others. For example, we have TAP ( Portuguese Air Transport ). Everybody seems — look, look, look! — agree with the importance of TAP for the Portuguese economy, but within a few weeks, many of these defenders begin to question this same importance. I have one suggestion: instead of questioning the importance that the TAP has, they begin to question the privatisation process, which was a mistake, or even the process of reversal of this privatisation itself, which today proves to be wrong. But we also have the example of Efacec, which is now nationalising to privatize itself as quickly as possible. We do not understand this option, since it is a company which is clearly a more valuable to the Portuguese economy and which has letters given in key sectors, such as energy, which is important to ensure for this new stage of the economic model. But it also refers to the example of the CTTs — Correios de Portugal, which are a case of privatization that proves to be satiety as it is that handing over an imminent public service to the private is harmful to the citizens and to the economy. Therefore, Mr António Filipe, to have a debate on national production and alternative answers is also to have the debate on what we consider essential for the country. over the years, we have been listening to a language on the right, and also on the PS, about the wonders of the market that would solve all the problems, but just arrive a crisis with the nature of which we live today to realize that only public services can respond to everyone and to everyone... [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Cecilia Meireles.]] ...and leave no one behind. And in the economy, this must also be a relevant factor. Therefore, Mr President, I ask you whether the CFP and Mr Deputy do not consider that national production, in cases identified but also in others, should go through public control of the strategic sectors of the economy. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-08.u15	Mr António Lima Costa, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor to request clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-08.u16	Mr President, Mr António Filipe, one of the issues the CFP has announced for today's debate is that of Portuguese food sovereignty. And the cover of this slogan, Mr President, basically demands the closure of borders and a turning back on Europe. This means only one thing: leaving the European Union and, alternatively, pursuing a policy, still seen in some countries, which results in empty shelves in supermarkets.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-08.u17	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-08.u18	And then comes the PCP obsessions. Diabolize Portuguese entrepreneurs, competitive, productive, with scale, is a meaningless obsession. It is thanks to these entrepreneurs that the CFP attacks every day, especially in agriculture, Portugal is already sovereign, for example, in the wine, olive oil or red fruit row, that Portuguese have sufficient national food and affordable prices, that national agricultural production is growing every day and that there is no unemployment in agriculture, on the contrary, there is a lack of labour. Another senseless obsession we have seen today in the social communication, by the voice of Mr. Secretary-General of the CFP, is the myth of Portuguese food sovereignty, through public intervention in the ranks in which we are not self-sufficient. [[Protests by PCP MP Diana Ferreira.]] in the example of cereals, mentioned yesterday by Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, with our agroclimatic conditions, the unit costs of production would involve two, one, or a brutal increase in the price of bread or its subsidy through taxes. This is what the CFP defends today, too. Portugal has to bet strongly on the rows with better natural and market conditions and in which we can be more competitive,... [[Protests by PCP MP Jerome de Sousa.]] ...because that's what creates wealth in the country. With regard to food sovereignty, there is indeed an essential debate for our country and for which the Government is completely away. The Portuguese want to be in the European Union. Agricultural policy is common. Therefore, the essential debate is about Portugal's strategy to minimize risks and take advantage of the great opportunities of this new collective ambition, which stems from the pandemic, which is that of European food sovereignty. European sovereignty in value chains and in the production of healthy, quality, safe and environmentally friendly food and animal welfare, with the European Ecological Pact as a lighthouse and the European Recovery Plan as criticised by the CFP as a great instrument. The question I am asking you, Mr President, is simple: what does the CFP think about this essential debate for Portugal, the debate on European food sovereignty? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-08.u19	To reply, Mr Antonio Filipe of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-08.u20	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for the questions you have raised. I'm asking the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen who do not take me seriously but, on the matter of ordering matters, I reply first to Mrs Isabel Pires, to tell her that we could no longer agree on the need for public control of strategic sectors of our economy. With this pandemic, we saw the consequences of the privatisation of TAP. If it was not a State intervention, TAP was effectively broken and TAP is the largest domestic exporting company and is absolutely decisive for the national economy and Portugal as a sovereign country. Well, and the example of CTT is appropriate. There should not be a single person in this country who, in good faith, says that the country has gained something with the privatization of TTCs, on the contrary, all the testimonies we have, whether of workers or of users, regarding the consequences of this privatisation, are that it is disastrous. The gentlemen. Mr Pedro do Carmo and Antonio Lima Costa have asked a very relevant question, which is that of our food sovereignty. For Mr Pedro do Carmo, everything is fine, everything is great, our agriculture is able to respond to all the problems of the country, nothing happens and therefore when we talk about a crisis that affects the country and in great vulnerabilities, this will perhaps be fiction. But it is not, Mr, because there is a fundamental issue, which is the support needed for family farming, for the many thousands of families that depend on agriculture in Portugal. If we want to buy food products produced in Portugal by national producers, where are we going? We have to go to the small trade.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-08.u21	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-08.u22	If we go to the big surfaces, what do we find? We find imported fruit when Portuguese producers do not have the conditions to drain their products under minimally competitive conditions. When we see a large surface campaign saying you're selling national products, what do we see? We see that they are ruining precisely the national producers, crushing their prices and making them sell below the cost prices.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-08.u23	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-08.u24	Well, that's not really what we want. The Family Agriculture Statute, which has been approved, and well in this House in the past Parliament, must be applied, regulated and reach people, which is not happening. Mr António Lima Costa considers that our food sovereignty is to export wine, olive oil and red fruit, but I would say that Mr Deputy, particularly in the case of olive oil, is speaking of a superintensive culture with serious environmental consequences, certainly, for our country... [[Protests from PSD MP João Moura.]] ... and that is replacing the possibilities that the country would have to produce more usefully to provide the national market with food products. When we talk about food sovereignty, we talk about the capacity that the country has, without external dependence, to be able to provide the Portuguese with the food goods they lack, which is particularly sensitive in crisis situations such as those we will certainly be going through in the near future. What moves the CFP is in fact the defense of the national interests and of the concrete people who live and work in Portugal and who demand that the country respond to their living conditions. This is true for the need to support small domestic producers and indeed has been lacking. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-08.u25	Mrs Mariana Silva of the ENP Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-08.u26	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We are debating today, on a proposal from the CFP, the need for an alternative policy and the response to the needs of the Portuguese people. The structural problems of the country, accumulated throughout the legislatures by the stubbornness of PS, PSD and CDS policies, are in sight and have been more exposed to the epidemic, which now bears all the blame. The Greens Ecological Party has already stressed that the COVID-19 pandemic has demonstrated the importance of gaining robustness in terms of food sovereignty, not only because it is crucial to reduce the ecological footprint, but also because, in times of food crisis, such as that which a pandemic can cause, countries need to be able to provide concrete answers to citizens. On the other hand, we remember that it has been demonstrated how fragile an economic growth is essentially based on tourism and on other factors that the country does not control, such as the low price of fossil fuels, neglecting the production of diversified goods, not only at the food level, but also health goods, as seen in relation to the material for individual protection, such as the simple masks. We remember the local, neighborhood trade, which in recent years has suffered the opening up of large commercial spaces, with increases in incomes for exorbitant prices, with redundancies, with an announced death and which has now been decisive for food supply to the populations confined to their homes and neighborhoods, providing a proximity service that has now been recognized by the generality of the people. For the Greens, dramas are only now beginning to feel, with many micro, small and medium-sized enterprises closing and many people losing their jobs, other victims of layoffs, with their substantially reduced monthly income, while the accounts continue to remain. Therefore, the ENP has placed its intervention in a set of proposals that materialize the response to the urgent needs of the country. It is necessary to combat increasing levels of poverty, ensuring income for all families, promoting the urgent recovery of jobs, supporting micro, small and medium-sized enterprises; combating tax havens and preventing the distribution of scandalous dividends in large businesses and economic groups in times of crisis; defending the increase of national minimum wage and wage recovery in general, so that purchasing power is not lost and so can encourage the economy; such as defending the reduction of weekly working hours, in order to enable the compatibility between work and family life. Support for local and national production, particularly at the level of small-scale and biological family farming, needs to be strengthened so that short production circuits are encouraged, the footprint on our plate is reduced and the local economy is promoted. We must also not forget the strengthening of support at the level of traditional industrial sectors, such as the example of the textile and footwear industry, recognised on the European market, as part of the incentive for the establishment of business fabric within the country, supporting the diversification and decentralization of economic activities. at the same time as fear is passing, fear is being dominated and normality is being installed, we unfortunately realize that little has been learned with the epidemic, with the difficulties felt, and that the little that has been done to this day will not solve a part of the crisis that many families are already living if no different political options are taken. [[Congrats from the CFP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-08.u27	Mr Cecilia Meireles of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-08.u28	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP has brought us a debate entitled 'The alternative policy and the response to the needs of the Portuguese people: food sovereignty, production and employment', but I confess that, from the introduction I have heard here, I think that this debate should in fact be entitled 'The model of the economy and model of communist society'. That is what they brought us here and that is what they have exposed, being the pandemic an excuse as anything else to carry out this model of society which, in fact, consistently defend. But I think that if that is what we want to discuss, then it is better to title the debate even so and let us discuss it. For the principle of conversation, I would like to know now whether they could begin by presenting some example of success, some case in the world in which, one day, a society like this, a society with a communist economy, a communist society, has translated into more prosperity, more well-being and more income for workers. I would like to know if you have these concrete examples to give, to discuss reality here and not just fiction. Secondly, I think it would also be relevant... [[PCP protests.]] It is clear from this point of view that this is the object of this debate and I think it makes sense to discuss it, but it is also a little intriguing for me that when people who are so strongly defending communist society, then when they are asked for an example, they are so indignant. They should have many, they should even be happy to be able to talk about it.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-08.u29	China!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-08.u30	Secondly, I believe that there is also a lack of distinction here. I have heard a lot of talk about sovereignty — and indeed there are problems of sovereignty in Portugal, I agree — But what I heard here defending was not Portuguese sovereignty, it was Portuguese isolationism. What I heard describe there, the rostrum, looks more like 20th-century Albania than with 21st-century Portugal. In fact, the phrase "we must only consume what is produced in Portugal and not what imposes on us outside" — I really hear well? — do you mean that we are really defending a Portugal where we only consume what is national production in all sectors? I'm asking the ladies. Members who are aware of what is being defended here. Thirdly, as regards national production, and this applies to agriculture, industry and even services — tourism, for example, can also be national production, I suppose — I would like to distinguish two very different things. [[Protests by PCP Member Antonio Filipe.]] If we are defending national production, we are defending that our companies, our farmers, our entrepreneurs can compete on equal circumstances in the world and, above all, in Europe, where borders are open, without a legislative background that does not exist in other countries, without a fee forest that does not exist in other countries, without context costs that do not exist in other countries, without heavier taxation, that does not exist in other countries, without having to hire teams of consultants to manage simple applications, that is bureaucracy, then, if that is what we are talking about when we are talking about defending national production, we could not agree more. If what we are talking about in relation to national production is to close borders and we will only consume what is produced in Portugal — and we do not export or import anything — then, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we're discussing a completely anachronistic model and it doesn't have the slightest chance of working.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-08.u31	What a fool!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-08.u32	« Produce here. We want to produce here what requires us to buy out» — that is what has been said! Therefore, it is appropriate to specify what we are talking about. I would like to understand why it has been said, and it is true, that Europe's response has not been rapid. It's true it wasn't fast. I understand when it is said that we want to protect national production and, above all, we do not want Portuguese entrepreneurs, Portuguese companies and Portuguese production out there to compete with companies that had more support from their respective State. The truth is that in Europe, in most countries, there was more support from the state during the pandemic. But I would like to draw attention to the following: the countries of Europe that could better protect their production, their businesses and their workers were precisely the countries that did not do what you are defending, that is, the countries that had solid public finances, were the countries that had competitive taxation and were the countries that had a market economy. Interestingly, it is also in those countries that, contrary to everything that stands for these benches, workers have higher incomes. So if what the Communist Party wants is better workers, with higher incomes, it can only defend what is done in those countries which are so critical. Finally, I would like to leave here now one last question on a subject which has been raised by several Members. Members and that has to do with TAP and the strategic sectors. Again I tell you: the places in the world where workers live better, have access to better wages, better incomes and better care, are not the places where the State owns the means of production and are not the places where the State owns the strategic sectors. It is precisely countries with a competing market economy, which is regulated and with social responsibility. So if we're discussing models of society, I think we have to discuss looking out and realizing who did better than us and who did worse than us. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-08.u33	Mr John Dias of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-08.u34	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Cecilia Meireles : I said here that I would like to understand, but to understand, the first thing we need is to understand. But I'll have a chance to make you understand if you want to understand. When we are forced to buy from abroad what we can produce in Portugal, national sovereignty is at stake. And, also responding to the myth of food sovereignty that the PSD speaks of, Portugal is in an absolutely contradictory and unacceptable situation. We have the largest exclusive economic area in the European Union, but the balance on the commercial balance of fish is negative in more than a billion euros. Our diet has a fundamental element in cereals, but the wheat we produce only gives for the first 12 days of the year and the corn only gives for 4 months. We produce the best carolin rice, but we see more than 100,000 tons of foreign rice entering the country. We are able to produce the best beef from Mirandesa to Alentejana, but we import more than 180 million euros in meat. The national potato, to the producer, is not sold for more than 10 cents, but we eat more than 300 thousand tons of French or Spanish potatoes. Even with the right-wing policy that has closed more than 90% of dairy farms, we are still self-sufficient in raw milk, and we can produce much more, but we buy more than 50,000 tons of cheese and more than 75,000 tons of milk abroad and are still paying us to produce less. We continue to watch the jury of eternal love for national production by the economic groups of retail sale, but the truth is that there is no small or medium-sized farmer who has no complaints about the dictatorship of the large distribution, a dictatorship that leads to thousands of tons of food produced by our agriculture not having flow. To prove it, it is enough to enter a large supermarket to see the orange, not that of Algarve but that of Spain ; the borego, not that of Alentejo but that of New Zealand ; the sweet potato, not that of Aljezur or the Alentejo coast but that of the United States ; the grapes, not those of Douro but those of Chile. And more: a country that produces olive oil of the best quality, in a sustainable way, has become a large producer of industrial oil, superintensively, exhausting the lands where it is produced, jeopardizing the health of surrounding populations and exposing the labour force to nearly slave labor. What is required is another way and another policy, to guarantee the flow of agricultural products and fish with fair prices to production and with guarantees, which will ensure that the support will be given, firstly, to family agriculture, which will dynamize the proximity markets and control the large distribution, which strengthens the investment of the State in production structures. That is why, and much more importantly, the CFP will continue to be struck by the need to affirm a mixed economy, with a strong public sector and with strong support for the social and cooperative sector. But to that end, Mrs. Members, what is required is a substantial increase in public and private investment and a profound change in the management of Community funds. Yes, sir. Members, what is required is a reform of the common agricultural policy (CAP) which, without prejudice to the strengthening of the country's funds for the damage caused to us, guarantees a greater balance in the distribution of aid between countries, between producers and between productions, linking production support, recovers market regulation mechanisms, notably milk and wine, and ensures preferential support for small and medium-sized farmers, with the modulation and ceiling of aid. You know very well what I'm talking about! The CFP will continue to defend small and medium-sized farmers, fishermen, family farmers, rural worlds, for a country that also wants to be sovereign in the food field. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-08.u35	Mr President, the Bureau shall register a request for clarification from the honourable Member. Mrs Célia Paz, from the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-08.u36	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in the subject under discussion today, proposed by the CFP, it is worth noting that the Socialist Party has shown great concern and commitment in these areas, paying particular attention to the issue of the defence of food sovereignty. This has been, and is, among the priorities of government action. The Socialist Party has, and continues to demand, immediate follow-up measures and political intervention initiatives to ensure the continuity of supply to populations in those sectors of greater importance and, in particular, in terms of the distribution of proximity, with short chains and the approximation of the production of distribution. in this context, it is important to point out, with regard to the fisheries sector and in order to minimize the impact of the pandemic, the important intervention of the Government to the Community bodies, proposing some amendments to the regulation of the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund, which resulted in the adoption of measures to strengthen and support temporary cessation in fisheries. The Government also established by Decree-Law No 20 - B / 2020 an exceptional and temporary wage compensation scheme for fisheries professionals. Although much has been done in recent times, we recognize that there is still a need to do more. And in this follow-up, the Socialist Party agrees with the legislative initiative presented by the CFP, which aims to promote a simplified mechanism for the acquisition and supply of fishery products by regulating a special direct adjustment procedure for this purpose. We understand, however, and despite the proposed measures, that it is necessary to create a form of regulation, since it is proposed to adopt a system other than that existing in Portugal, which is that of the first mandatory batch sale. In addition, the simplified scheme proposed in the project does not cover some of the fundamental elements enshrined in the Economic Council Regulation to which the Portuguese State is bound. in this follow-up, the Socialist Party had the initiative to present a proposal for an amendment to that legislative initiative. Therefore, in order to promote fish flow from local and coastal fisheries, especially from low-value species in lota, it is proposed to define the list of species and a minimum amount, as well as the mechanisms for their implementation and monitoring. It is also proposed to define the procedure for training and advertising minimum prices. Moreover, it is proposed that, until the establishment and operation of the Docapesca electronic platform, the acquiring entities should register and issue purchase orders — in accordance with Decree-Law No 81/2005 — according to the minimum prices established, and that the same acquiring entities should be able to access the auction, until the creation and operation of the electronic platform, being obliged to respect the minimum prices established. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in this follow-up, I have already launched a challenge here for this House to follow this initiative of the Socialist Party. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-08.u37	You have the floor to answer, Mr. João Dias.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-08.u38	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to take note of the position expressed here by the PS Parliamentary Group on the proposal presented by the CFP, which is a proposal that responds, to some extent, to the problem of fish discharge and the devaluation it has in its first sale. This is an area and a subject in which the CFP has had an intervention over the past few years, alerting itself to the need to take steps to ensure the flow. Of course, we have solutions, but it takes political will to answer that. In particular, we have, of course, the canteens and public meals, which will, to a large extent, respond to this need. But it is also important to ensure the recovery of low-value fish, which is the one in which we increase quotas, which we have not been able to exhaust, and to ensure that we can have better fishing quotas for other species, with more fishing opportunities, particularly for sardines, because sardine fishing is also crucial for our country. Mrs Deputie, in a fishing country, in a country that has fishermen and is one of the world's largest fish consumers — she consumes more than 600 000 tonnes of fish per year — she does not understand how difficult it is to catch fish and, at the same time, it is necessary to import about 80 % of what is consumed. So we have a long way here. With regard to the support given, the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund has created a difference in treatment. In other words, for shipowners, support was given on the basis of their real income, but for fishing workers and fishermen, support was only the national minimum wage. We do not agree with this, we express this disagreement and we will continue to fight for equal treatment, recognised and for all, not only for shipowners but also for fishing workers. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-08.u39	Mr John Castro, from the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-08.u40	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I should like to begin by congratulating the CFP on the initiative of this debate. Agriculture, in various forms, fisheries and aquaculture, the so-called primary sector, form the basis of an entire agri-food sector, whose primary function is food, and therefore also inseparable from the social construction process. This generalized perception justified the unanimous creation in this Parliament of the Committee on Agriculture and the Sea of the Working Group — Valuation of Agri-Food Products in Portugal. The response to the recent crisis is also an example of this. We immediately realized the need and relevance to follow the context, capacities, weaknesses and resilience of security or even food sovereignty. The sector was targeted at its own and targeted responses, with marked impact and reach. We highlight the Food program who feeds, the link between producers and consumers, or the Monitoring and Evaluation Group on Supply and Retail Conditions. The continuity of the activity of farmers and fishermen and the agri-food sector proved essential during social isolation, without which this would be unthinkable. This sector, over time, shaped the landscape and the way in which resources are used, in the construction of what we call today by environmental and territorial management, generating value and economy. in an analysis of self-sufficiency and national response capacity, we found a deficit in the food trade balance. However, recent years have shown export growth rates in the order of double imports, in a frank and positive way in order to balance them. It is in this context that we see this reflection and this challenge: to what extent, in a world where international trade is a reality, with a growing integration of the sector into global value chains, can we aim at a positive, self-sufficient trade balance, but with conditions of competitiveness in production, food security and territorial development? What variables can and do we want to intervene, in a sector where the price variable has a strong influence on the overall nature of the agents involved, focusing attention on the costs of production, whether financial, energy or work? In general, we have seen a rise in Portuguese quotas on the world market. Credit to the sector has increased, in contrast to the rest of the economy; bad credit in the banking system is lower in the primary sector; exports still have a strong dependence on imports, it is true, but CO2 emissions have also decreased. The scenario is to improve conditions of competitiveness, based on price, reflecting on overall export growth and improving trade balance. in an environment of increasing importance of the quality and environmental effects associated with production and marketing, it is important to reflect on an evolution process of agricultural products, its original aspect as basic products, towards greater differentiation and complexity, with increasing the importance of value-added services in the sector. It is important to consider that the value of work in the agricultural sector increased in Portugal, influenced by the course already started with the increase in national minimum wage. Some said that it has led to a loss of competitiveness, however, the recent evolution of exports suggests that this effect was lower than the gains achieved in the other dimensions, particularly in the financial and energy costs. The nominal growth of exports in the last decade was significantly higher than that of imports. Exports grew 67, 5 % while imports grew 38 %, significantly reducing the sector’s structural trade deficit. The weight of exports in imports of agri-food goods increased by more than 11 % since 2010 from 53 % to 65 %, associated with a greater number of Portuguese companies to be exported, which are aimed at external markets, and at the highest quality and added value of domestic production in products as different as wine, oil, tomato or cork. Increasing integration into global value chains has provided the creation of new, more sustainable jobs and, at the same time, has caused a widespread decline in the prices of end-consuming products, which, complemented by support, has made it possible to improve the living conditions of the population associated with the sector. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the last few months have exposed the world as we know it to serious weaknesses and for the next there are no facilities, but one thing seems certain: farmers, fishermen, aquaculture, food and the agri-food sector will remain essential. People challenged us with the expression « My homeland is the Portuguese language». Here too, the challenge seems to gain today, inspired by the Disassessment of Person, in the relationship of the Portuguese language with food and food sovereignty. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-08.u41	Mr Deputies, the Bureau shall register for clarifications, two inscriptions, one from the PSD and the other from the NAP. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-08.u42	Mr President, I will answer together.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-08.u43	All right. You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr João Moura, from the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-08.u44	Mr President, Mr. João Castro, in fact, I can agree with the honourable Member when he tells us here that the recent pandemic has brought the weaknesses of the agriculture sector to an end. Let me refer to the three sectors, the three essential pillars of agriculture. in animal production, Portuguese farmers live with great difficulty, with complicated production factors. And they live, day by day, with difficulty in draining their product. This crisis has brought them the need to bring down to birth what was their normal animal production. Mr. Minister of Environment and Climate Action told us that he corroborated the words of Mr. Rector of the University of Coimbra, who said that these damn cows were responsible for carbon emissions. The Minister of Agriculture, instead of defending the sector, instead of telling us that the cows that feed and are created under extensive regimes are, on the contrary, carbon sinks, came to tell us that this pandemic was an opportunity to increase exports to China. in agricultural production, farmers debate every day with many pests, but the most recent pests are those that combat them the opportunity to use phytopharmaceuticals, to be able to have an intensive agriculture that has a competitiveness capacity with external agriculture, which has been mentioned here today. Mr. Minister for the Environment and Climate Action said that fitopharchics were enemies of agriculture and that nocturnal harvesters were hurting the birds. As for the Minister of Agriculture, the echo of the Ministry of Agriculture's building in the Land of Paço, is that there are some beautiful pilate classes. in the forest sector, producers feel completely abandoned; the association of producers is neither seen nor found for anything similar. Mr. Minister of Environment and Climate Action said that forest is a landscape forest. The Minister of Agriculture says that this time of confinement is an excellent time for farmers to be able to watch the rural TV again. What I would like to ask, Mr President, is the position of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group with regard to these three dichotomies of agriculture in Portugal? Are you on the side of the Minister for the Environment and Climate Action, the fundamentalist of sustainable agriculture? Are you on the side of the Minister of Agriculture, virtually non-existent? Or are you on the farmers' side? [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests by PS Pedro do Carmo.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-08.u45	You have the floor to make the next request for clarification, Mr André Silva, of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-08.u46	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr. João Castro, spoke of the importance of the primary sector to the Socialist Party there. To sum up, I would like to be able to say that his speech is basically summed up in four words: competitiveness, more consumption, more production, more export. In fact, the Socialist Party and the Government of the Socialist Party have a very different outlook for economic development than the one the NAP advocates, much different from the one the world demands and much different from the one the planet needs. For the Socialist Party, economic growth, increased production and export values of goods and increased GDP (gross domestic product) can be done at any cost. In fact, let us remind ourselves of the intervention made recently by Mr Pedro do Carmo, which defends this very thing: the Alentejo of intensive olive monoculture is invaded!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-08.u47	What an obsession!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-08.u48	I would like to speak to you about a serious problem of national production in our country, which I would like you to comment on. In Portugal, there are pig farmers who, as you know, operating with total impunity, continue to pollute our rivers and water resources so as not to spend money on the treatment of effluents. I speak in particular of the Leiria region and its surrounding region, which houses over 400 pig farms, one of the largest concentrations of this industry, a number that has been increasing over the last years of the Socialist Party government.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-08.u49	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-08.u50	These companies, these economic agents, who do not want to invest money in the treatment of effluents,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-08.u51	It's still not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-08.u52	... some of these farms choose to drain the effluents from already saturated agricultural fields, seriously compromising the quality of soils and local reserves.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-08.u53	It's the exception!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-08.u54	Many other pigicultures, at the top of the law, simply clear the excrements of animals directly in the rivers, away from everybody's gaze. The environmental attack has therefore been repeated for decades. Pigs are not closed, on the contrary, multiplied in their total impunity. I ask you, honourable Member: is this the concept of more sustainable jobs that the Socialist Party has defended? Is this the concept of environmental compatibility that you referred to in your speech? How does Brussels not allow it to be the State directly to pay those costs for distorting competition and because the government does not oblige livestock producers to comply with legislation, what has the government done? Oh, my God! It does nothing more than say, for years, that will review the National Strategy for Agricultural and Agri-Industry Efluents, ENEAPAI, which has never been implemented, and everything remains the same. I ask you, Mr President, what you think of the environmental scourge to which we are subject, particularly in the Leiria region, but also in other regions of the country, because the state allows livestock producers, on behalf of your blind plan of more consumption, more production and more export. Who cares that this problem is not solved? Does it not consider that livestock farms that do not have the capacity to treat their effluents and that operate outside the law should be closed? [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-08.u55	In reply, Mr João Castro of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-08.u56	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I thank Mr Moura and Mr André Silva for the relevance of the issues raised. to Mr Moura, I would like to respond with three approaches that obviously need to be developed, something I tried to do in the intervention I made recently. One has to do with the word 'innovation', particularly when it comes to issues of emissions arising from agriculture. Today, for example, studies are already under way to amend the food regime, in particular the cattle for the drastic reduction of emissions, which is still expected to happen. Another approach is that of sustainable production, which is already being done in Portugal today, with a significant reduction in the use of fitophharmacs, adapting its use to the actual needs of production. The latter relates to the growth that has occurred in the agricultural sector at the level of exports, far higher than that of imports, even in times of pandemic. On the question put by Mr André Silva, I understand its fixation, I realize its relevance and I realize that it remains in the approach to the problem; it would be interesting if it were to move on to the perspective of the solution. He made a bit of a summary. [[Protests by PAN MP André Silva.]] He translated into four words the intervention I made today. I will help you, and I will summarize the speech I made today in one word: food. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice President Editi Estrela.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-08.u57	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. Following the debate, Mrs Emília Cerqueira of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-08.u58	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, under the cover of food sovereignty, production and employment, we have a debate, scheduled by the CFP, of nothing. however, by refocusing this debate on food and sovereignty, it would begin with a quote by Charles Godfray, about the challenges in food for the next decades: "If we fail in food, we will fail everything else—in poverty, biodiversity, climate change—and compromise our evolution as a species". [[Protests from PCP MP João Dias.]] So far, we have not failed and, with more or less imbalances, we have managed to provide quality food to the Portuguese and European population. however, this abundance should not be seen as a guarantee, because it is not. Furthermore, one of the many teachings that we can draw from this pandemic is precisely that of the fragility of systems and our excessive dependence on other parts of the extra-European Union globe. It's important to fix that. in the case of food, extra-European Union dependence is not yet worrying, as it is in other sectors. During the pandemic shock period, the national and European agricultural sectors proved to be resilient, ensuring food supply. But the same may not happen in a future crisis. Public policy is sufficient to follow the drifts of some currents within and outside Portugal and to stop viewing agricultural production as strategic. The politically correct speeches about the Green Deal, the carbonic neutrality or the Farm, by themselves, seem to have blinded what should be obvious to some. The debate on agricultural production and on the need to strengthen the agri-food balance in Europe was thus focused. In order for food production to continue to fail, it is necessary to rebalance the role of the common agricultural policy in the production of food, food, food, which is essential to human survival as a species. This premise is not unique, but it is more than enough and justifies that the PSD defends agriculture as central to the independence of the country, agriculture which is the whole of the short chains, national production, traditional trade, as well as production agriculture of the large supply chains. All is national agriculture and sovereignty, which must be defended, each occupying its role in the agri-food chain. I speak of a diversified, multifunctional and humanizing agriculture, which occupies the territory, which gives social and economic expression to all regions, contributing to national cohesion and a reasonable level of food self-sustainment. With regard to the concept of food sovereignty defended by us—which is not that "each country produces everything"—it is also worth recalling the words of Prof. Orlando Ribeiro, when he says: "In Portugal, where there is no land there is no climate and where there is no climate there is no land".
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-08.u59	You have nothing to say!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-08.u60	In other words, we can hardly produce everything we need, but we can and must reduce our external agri-food deficit, which is in the order of EUR 3.5 billion, which corresponds to a degree of food self-supply of over 80 %. in the PSD, we defend the strengthening of value food self-sufficiency by increasing agricultural production. How? Oh, my God! Continuing to invest in agriculture. The growth in investment in agriculture between 2010 and 2017 was 1, 6 % per year, contrary to the economy as a whole, which was at the time of 1, 2 % per year. however, this trend, contrary to what the From 2017 onwards, according to the 2018 INE ( Instituto Nacional de Statística ), the Socialist Party has invested itself in its intervention, and from two years ago the agricultural investment declined 3, 5 %, while the investment of the economy, inversely, rose. It's, at least, disturbing. It's urgent to ask: Why? High levels of investment in the past have allowed extraordinary transformations in sectors such as wine, olive oil, fruit, vegetables or even maize. These are examples such as those that we should replicate, by incorporating more innovation and more technology and a common strategy into the value chain, thus seeking to increase national production. In addition, more investment is needed to correct shortcomings that still persist. At the level of the production organisation, Portugal needs to strengthen producer organisations, as well as the programme to support the resizing of cooperatives, which is fundamental to this organisation of small producers. At risk management level, it is necessary to improve the way in which the risk is taken, in particular by strengthening and improving agricultural insurance. At the energy level, Portugal is the Member State with the most expensive electricity in Europe, which strongly harms water systems and the preservation of products. In this regard, it is worth remembering an essential factor for production: water. in the Portuguese case, without water, we cannot ambitious productivity increases, nor productions capable of feeding our population. We need to increase our irrigable area, which is only 15% of the agricultural area used. However, in a completely absurd and incomprehensible way, whenever we talk about expanding irrigation works, new contestators arise. In fact, this comes from so-called "environmental advocates", who forget that it is precisely in the irrigation areas that biodiversity is richer, unlike drought areas, which are often or almost always semi-arid. Having said this, we need to ensure, I repeat, that there is no lack of food at the Portuguese table. To that end, a common and concerted strategy is needed, particularly at the level of the new CAP. We cannot continue to have a government that seems to be drifting, without strategy, without vision and without future. The PSD will be here to fight for the rural world, for the agri-food industry and for agriculture as a whole. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-08.u61	Two Mrs were registered. Members to request clarification from Mrs Emília Cerqueira, who informed the Bureau that she wishes to answer together. Mr Francisco Rocha, from the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-08.u62	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Emília Cerqueira, we should take advantage of this debate to look into the future and ask what we want from Portuguese agriculture and its agri-food complex. We should also point out the coincidence between negotiating the new European policy framework and this pandemic to assess and adjust our strategy. It is not an easy challenge because the current context has loaded all the scenarios with the word « uncertainty ». Therefore, more than ever, we must reflect which paths we will take, which support we consider essential for the areas of agriculture, the sea and livestock...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-08.u63	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-08.u64	... and what we can and should do for the economic recovery of these same sectors and rows, in the current context. This reflection should take into account the strategic plan of the new CAP, the European Ecological Pact, the negotiation of the multiannual financial framework,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-08.u65	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-08.u66	... the National Food and Nutrition Security Strategy, the recently approved Economic and Social Stabilisation Programme in this House, the National Regadios Programme, the organization of various productive rows, family agriculture and biological agriculture, the incorporation of innovation and research into various agricultural activities and also the challenges facing agriculture and livestock in relation to energy sustainability and the obligation to reduce greenhouse gases. Therefore, we confess our perplexity when we realize the vision and reading that the PSD today brought to this debate. It is only in 2019 that Portuguese agriculture has had one of the four most favourable economic results of the last 10 years and at the time of the beginning of the pandemic we had managed to open beyond borders 57 new markets for our products. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs. Members, it is not enough to always load on the same key, « lack of political weight of the Ministry of Agriculture », to make this phrase struck an alternative or differentiated political vision which the PSD should show. What matters today is to ask what is your thought in relation to the role they reserve for the entire Portuguese agricultural sector within the framework of the CAP to which we are bound. And this reading, Mrs Emília Cerqueira, has to contain consistency in order not to fall into the easy temptation to defend something else now, clearly contrary to what they defended and begged when they were government. As we all know, the ziguzague is not a strategy, it is simply a disguise to hide the lack of direction and structured thinking. So there are some questions here: are they, or are they not, in accordance with the measures that the Government has implemented to simplify processes, anticipate payments, create lines of credit, give liquidity to sectors, give sustainability and predictability to production and markets? Are they aligned with the innovation agenda that the Ministry of Agriculture is finalizing? And what alternatives do they offer for the entire agri-food complex to be prepared for the multiple challenges that the new CAP will pose, particularly with regard to reducing its environmental impacts? Do you think that we should take advantage of this context in order to build a new contract, a new alliance between national production and distribution, as far as possible correcting the chronic asymmetries? Are they, or are they not, agreed that we should quickly carry out the revision of the Public Contracts Code so that local products, organic agriculture and short chains can be better valued? Are they now available to support the Government of the Socialist Party to achieve success at the European Commission's negotiating table in order to ensure a fair and phased transition to the new CAP and the new European Ecological Pact? After all, ladies and gentlemen, in addition to the unsustainable lightness of the argument that revolves around the lack of political weight, what does the PSD really propose as an alternative path to growth and the success of the Portuguese agrarian sector? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-08.u67	Nothing!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-08.u68	Mr André Silva of the Parliamentary Group of the PAN, for clarification, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-08.u69	Mrs President, Mrs Emília Cerqueira, spoke of the importance of national agricultural production and of a resource that is fundamental to its success: water. Today, I would like to reflect and discuss with you, with the PSD, because PSD is not a negationist party, the importance and use of this resource based on the latest data from the scientific community. The climate change scenario we live in, as you know, is dramatic: at the current rate of emissions we have less than eight years to ensure our survival on the planet and Portugal is one of the most affected European countries. Scientists say that below parallel 40 the territories will be uninhabitable and in Portugal parallel 40 is in Figueira da Foz, therefore 60 % of our territory is at risk of desertification, namely Alentejo and Algarve, where the reduction in water availability has been felt for a long time. But the country continues to bet on olives and intensive stoves in Alentejo or avocado culture in Algarve, a production with a huge water footprint, this at the same time when populations are supplied with water by autotanks at Sotavento Algarvio. It is not clear how we can continue without a territorial agricultural planning based on the new climate reality and not prepare ourselves for what comes here when we destroy the resources we still have. over the last decades, economic values have prevailed, to the detriment of safeguarding environmental and landscape heritage. This is what has happened in Costa Vicentina, which has been plasticized from greenhouses and, more recently, from superintensive olives, which destroys and contaminates soils, wastes water and extinguishes species in drought areas affected by climate change. And because the PSD does not have a negationist view on climate reality, because the PSD defends the compatibility of the economy with environmental values, does not agree, Mrs Deputy, that one should once and for all regulate superintensive agricultural productions and that in areas affected by climate change and drought should the country bet on crops adapted to this reality, instead of the current model and agricultural policies for water drainage and soil destruction?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-08.u70	In reply, Mrs Emília Cerqueira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-08.u71	Madam President, I begin by thanking you for your questions. Mr Francisco Rocha, as regards the lack of political weight which he referred to for six or seven times in his speech, are your words. It seems to me that this is the thought they have about your Minister, because if you had heard my speech and had not brought your request for clarification in writing before, I would have found that I did not speak once in your Minister. You are so aware of the lack of weight that you have to come here several times to reinforce this idea in order to defend yourself against what you do not need, because it has not been mentioned. [[PSD applause.]] It's very interesting this little detail. It happens to those who bring pre-written interventions. As for the issues of the CAP and our view of agriculture, Mr President, just listen to my speech. But we still have a big problem: they bring ready interventions and then they do not agree with what has been said. Mr President, I advise you to hear my speech again and you will have the answer to almost all of your questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-08.u72	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-08.u73	As for the PSD zigzags, which you mentioned, I would like to tell you that they never existed. In addition, when the possible committee for the negotiation of the 2030 multiannual package, the PSD also made an agreement to defend a better package for Portugal. It's good to have memory of that. It wasn't long ago, it was less than a year ago and we were on the front line of negotiation. in the European Parliament, do you know who has been at the forefront of negotiating the new package so that Portugal is not harmed? The Portuguese Euro MPs, who have made a foothold, unlike the government, who is very strong in the country and very weak abroad. Mr President, the PSD has always had an integrated view of agriculture, in which everyone has taken place — short production chains, traditional agriculture... This is our vision of development, always in accordance with good practices and what science has to sustain. The PSD has always defended a balance between production and sustainability. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-08.u74	As for growth data, I advise you to see those of the 2018 INE, they are not mine. Mr André Silva, I am grateful for the question you have raised, although it has already been put here a number of times and this discussion has been repeated. Once again, with regard to the ecological footprint, there is one thing that the NAP has forgotten about the discussion, which is to forget constantly, when it speaks of the food production, of which would be the consequences of drought and desertification. I grew up to hear about an Alentejo and a deserted Algarve, which would be in the vicinity of desertification. Mr President, on the day that the studies, which we defend here and which we have recently adopted on the proposal of the PS, are made and say that we are wrong, the PSD, which always follows rigour and science, will be next to the NAP. Until that day, just by dogmatism or ideology, we will never be. We are always on the side of rigor and science! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-08.u75	Mr Ricardo Vicente of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, for an intervention, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-08.u76	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The current pandemic has shown many limitations in the country's food production and distribution system. If it was already necessary to promote public policies that would ensure greater balance throughout the supply chain and the formulation of fair prices to producers and consumers, the current picture makes these policies even more urgent. Farmers and fishermen — who supply the company with essential food goods — cannot be held hostage by the will of the large distribution chains, which buy at too low prices and sell at excessive prices, under the penalty of the activity of many producers becoming unviable.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-08.u77	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-08.u78	Valuing the production and work of agricultural and fisheries professionals is a necessary condition for us to get closer to the food sovereignty that the country needs. For decades, governments and authorities have encouraged the opening of large commercial areas, which have dominated distribution networks, thus contributing to the destruction of local economies. It is therefore important to reverse this situation. Recently, a proposal from the Left Block was voted on to ensure fair prices for both the consumer and the producer. We propose that measures be taken to prevent the abuse of large distribution on producers, ensuring minimum prices above production costs, but also the definition of maximum margins of intermediation. All farmers and fishermen who hear us know what we are talking about. They know that this is the only way to end this abuse, but the PS and the right did not have the courage to vote in favour of these proposals and did not present any alternative proposal, I repeat, any alternative response. They are not available to solve this problem and face the power of the large distribution. Even yesterday, it was news, for example, to Jerome Martins. I quote yesterday's news: « Transnationally organised fraud scheme based on the creation of ghost companies and the creation of fictitious invoice circuits aimed at VAT avoidance and undue reimbursements ». I continue to quote: «In addition to defrauding the Portuguese State, these goods were placed on the market below the cost price, generating unfair competition between operators and serious adultery of the national market in these sectors ». I therefore leave here the following question: is the CFP, which brought here today this debate, available to propose and support measures to intervene on the food market, guaranteeing greater sovereignty for the country? What about the rest of Parliament? It is that neither the Government nor the transposition of a Community directive with minimum measures seems to deserve any urgency. The introduction of a new Community framework of the common agricultural policy, or government, has forgotten, or is being dealt with elsewhere, which would not be unpublished — for example, we remember the rate on cellulose, which has been forgotten — or is then negotiating the strategy for the transposition of the next Community framework into closed offices and away from public scrutiny. For the Left Block there is no doubt: this is a fundamental moment to reformulate agricultural policy in order to respond to the challenge of climate change, but also to food sovereignty. We therefore propose the formulation of an ecological transition programme for all agriculture and the whole country. Public funds should be applied in order to respond to the public interest and it is necessary to abandon monoculture systems and bet on a diversified and proximity agriculture. PCP, PS and right have recently plummeted this proposal, we are available to re-place it. We need to make concrete choices: Alqueva waters and other public investments in irrigation must be conditioned to diversified agriculture rather than monoculture systems. Support measures cannot treat the territory unevenly or abandon smaller producers, as has happened over the years. Ecological transition, response to climate change and food sovereignty must be guaranteed in an inclusive and democratic manner, and that choice is now made. Is the PCP available to support this path? What about the other parliamentary groups? For decades, successive governments, with the alternate command between PS and PSD, have degraded the country's food sovereignty. Rural extension services were destroyed, the capacity of national research centres was eroded, and extension services were destroyed. along the way, the rural territories were emptied. Today, there is an enormous task of mitigation and adaptation to climate change that is about to be done and there is a lack of public services capable of supporting this transformation, with its consumption reduction. Market ideology has failed and reality is concrete evidence. I give you two examples. At the level of herbicide insecticides, consumption remained in Portugal between 2006 and 2016, that is, it was 10 years of small oscillations. According to INE data, the excess nitrogen applied per hectare in 2017 was 43 kg and is equivalent to that applied in 1995. Twenty years ago, we were putting the same excesses that are placed today per hectare and that contaminate soils and water lines. Thus, it is necessary to rebuild public services, experimentation and technical and scientific advice to agroforestry farms. Is this Parliament available to guarantee it? from the Left Block, you can count on us. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-08.u79	Mr Ricardo Vicente, two Mrs have signed up. Ladies and gentlemen for clarification. To this end, Mr. Paulo Leitão of the PSD has the floor which will, for health reasons, take a seat.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-08.u80	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Left Block has assumed a set of positions in the agricultural sector against intensive farms and monoculture. in its Electoral Programme, there is a set of restrictions on the application of fitopharms and fertilizers, as well as the construction of hydraulic and irrigation works. A clear example of this ideological blindness was the unfortunate and imprecise statements made by Mrs Catarina Martins on the evaporation of water in dams. The Left Block also proposes the adoption of short chains of processing and distribution of food goods and the promotion of extensive and multifunctional production. with regard to the promotion and adoption of best environmental practices, the PSD accompanies the need for policies and measures with realism and well-founded feet on earth, without futile and unnecessary radicalisms, which must have the proper scientific support to avoid jeopardizing the country's productive capacity, the income of farmers and the growth of national production. The strong constraints on production capacity that would be created by the Left Block proposals, by not reconciling environmental sustainability with the economic sustainability of producers, seriously affected the sector, with perverse effects such as severe production breakdown and abandonment of land and territory, exposing it to desertification and biodiversity breakdown. For example, in my region, if it had not been built a set of works consisting of the Aguieira dam, the Azude Bridge, in Coimbra, and by the Baxo Mondego irrigation system, without any fear of the evil evaporation of water, the productivity indices would certainly be much lower. On the other hand, I remember that many farmers continue to demand that the Girabolos dam be built to prevent new floods and consequent production breaks. I recall that this dam, essential to the Centre region, was not built by the imposition of management. So I would like to ask you, Mr President: how does the Left Bloc intend to reconcile the set of policies that create barriers to agricultural production capacity and, at the same time, increase the total production of the country in order to guarantee our self-sufficiency? In other words, by resorting to a popular expression that has already been said here today, how does the Left Block intend to have « the sun in the air and rain in the nabal»? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-08.u81	To request clarification, Mr João Nicolau of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-08.u82	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, few sectors show as much resilience and sense of mission as they have shown the sectors of agriculture, fisheries and the whole agri-food sector in this health crisis. in this adverse context, these sectors never stopped, as a true public service, to ensure that nothing is missing at the table of the Portuguese. In these atypical months, the vitality and importance of the entire food supply chain were made clear, which are undoubtedly due to the tenacity and strength of the professionals.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-08.u83	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-08.u84	for the worst reasons, this crisis has demonstrated the importance of strong and competitive national production, being a fundamental pillar of territorial and economic development that we must continue to value and in whose development we must bet. This is also the opportunity to intensify the innovation and generalization of more sustainable practices in agri-food production, which are essential for providing the sector with a larger scale and competitiveness, on an indispensable path for greater national consumption, going to meet Mr Ricardo Vicente's statements. During the health emergency, the Ministries of Agriculture and the Sea were well aware of the needs and challenges of these difficult times, taking the necessary measures at every moment and showing themselves untiring in defending professionals and productive activity. Of course, in promoting national consumption through the campaign, which was well listened to by all Portuguese people, Food Who Food, a platform for sharing and interaction between producers and consumers. This is one of the examples of this stimulus of new markets and of new short trading chains. Mr Ricardo Vicente has already provided us with some interventions on intensive crops and, in the sense of intensive crops, we can include sectors such as that of the vineyard or that of the cherry. We have been here a short time ago when the cherry producers complained about the damage of bad weather. All this is intensive crops, so we do not understand how you want to turn agriculture into a non-intensive agriculture. Therefore, what is called 'intensive', we can often call 'competitive'. What agriculture needs right now is more competitiveness and competitiveness. To that end, the Government is currently presenting the Innovation Strategy. So, Mr President, I would like to ask you whether the Left Block is available to monitor the interest in this Innovation Strategy, which meets your concerns in terms of reducing plant protection and greater efficiency in agriculture. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-08.u85	In response to requests for clarification, Mr Ricardo Vicente, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-08.u86	Mr President, first of all, I should like to clarify the intensity of agriculture. Intensive agriculture, I understand myself and the Left Block, is an agriculture that has a high consumption of industrial production factors. This does not mean that agriculture cannot be made with greater productivity, even per hectare, reducing production factors and replacing them with ecological processes. It is about this work that is based on all scientific research for mitigation and adaptation to climate change, and this is a process that is even more resilient. See this radical idea of the Left Block that aims to limit public support for agriculture to agricultural systems that meet the main pillars of integrated protection, of integrated production, of organic agriculture, which is the existence of production systems with rotations and with associations, bypassing monoculture systems, because they are harmful to fraternal sheets, promote consumption of pesticides, consume more fertilizers, are more dependent on external processes and emit more greenhouse gases! Oh, my God! This is our radical idea: to support sustainable agriculture, based on rotations and production diversity, in agro-silvo-pastori models, models that combine fruit production with the production of vegetables, models that ensure that a orchard is not made of a variety only or even vineyards that are not made of a single casta or even a single clone. You know why? Because these vineyards are much more susceptible to hearing or the media. But you don't know what that means! They are common diseases in agriculture.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-08.u87	You don't know!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-08.u88	I also want to say to you that irrigation is not an undeniable issue in many areas of agriculture, that irrigation is important, yes, for agricultural production. The Left Block proposed, at the head of the State budget — a proposal that has been piped — that the investment made in public recreation in Portugal would also be conditional on the practice of rotations, associations, agricultural crops and forms of production that are more resistant to climate change, with the capacity to supply food necessary for our well-being and our daily needs. Therefore, I appeal to this need to look at agriculture in a resilient way and to refuse monoculture systems, implementing production systems that are resilient and that allow true decarbonization of agriculture. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-08.u89	For an intervention, Mr Bruno Dias of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-08.u90	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: When debates on economic policy are in the context of uncertainty and threats to workers and peoples, political courage needs to be given first priority to defending the national interest, confronting and rejecting the interests of the economic power.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-08.u91	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-08.u92	It must be reaffirmed: Portugal is not a poor country, but the problems and structural deficits of the country are building up dependence and taking away development. The situation of vulnerability and dependence reached is the result of decades of right-wing policy in which the country, by the hand of PS, PSD and CDS, alienated strategic sectors, destroyed productive capacity, reduced public investment, weakened essential public services, imposed low wages and promoted exploitation. What the response to the post-COVID-19 puts, with all precedence, is the rupture with dominant options and positions and the adoption of an alternative policy that guarantees conditions for the country to face the problems. What is needed is the defence and promotion of national production and the productive sectors. The situation calls for an integrated programme to boost economic activity, where democratic planning is assumed as a tool for development and sovereignty in public policies. The importance of tourism cannot mislead the fact that the country needs to diversify its economic activity, reducing dependence on and deficits that have been dragged down for decades and that it urgently needs to be met. The economic development we are defending for our country must have an alternative economic policy, whose main objectives are, from the outset, the defence and promotion of national production and the productive sectors, with the development of a policy to defend the processing and extractive industry, which effectively places national resources at the service of the country and its development and which, in this way, contributes to the reduction of our structural deficits: food, energy, technology and equipment goods. A policy is essential to promote a bet on production in the food sector, medicines and clinical material, transport equipment — with emphasis on shipbuilding, rolling stock and railway equipment, etc. — in which public control recovers the presence and intervention in sectors such as energy, telecommunications or insurance, together with the necessary support for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises and the cooperative sector, relieving them from the robbery imposed by economic groups. One central aspect of this debate, which has been confirmed and evidenced by the situation caused by the COVID-19 epidemic, is the absolutely decisive character that has a strategy to replace imports by national production so that we stop bringing out what we can and should produce here. Yes, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, there must be memory of what has been the destruction of productive units of critical importance to our economy. You know, Mrs. Member, that our country has already produced trains and that it has stopped producing them when they destroyed Sorefame (Regular Metal Manufacturing Societies). We do not forget what they did with Sorefame, with Cimpor ( Cimentos de Portugal ), with the national merchant navy, with so many companies and strategic sectors! And we can't let anyone come to do it with Efacec or with TAP. We are not doomed to these inevitability! What the CFP advocates and proposes is an economy that is not dominated by monopolies, which promotes national production, based on wealth creation, for the creation of jobs with rights. What the PCP defends and affirms is a project for a free, sovereign, developed country. That is our commitment, that is our fight! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-08.u93	Mr Bruno Dias, for clarification Mr António Ventura of the PSD, signed up to request clarifications, but the honourable Member is no longer time to reply. In any case, the request for clarification is registered. To that end, Mr António Ventura of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-08.u94	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, a first note to say that it is regrettable that the Government of the Republic is not here in the discussion of such an important and strategic issue for Portugal. It is harmful for this debate that the Government does not say what comes, what it thinks and what it wants for Portugal in this matter. The debate is thus damaged. And when they get hurt, the Portuguese are also harmed. A second note is for Mr Bruno Dias — whom I will not ask, because he has no time to answer — to alert him to a question. The question is that, at the mouth of the COVID-19, the embryo is emerging for the renationalisation of the CAP. In fact, we can be watching what is the allocation to each Member State of the ability to help its producers, which is harmful to Portugal, because it will aggravate the gap between the rich and the poor. Therefore, Mr Bruno Dias, what I would like to ask you — and, in response, you can do a separate thing or say 'yes' or 'no' with your head — is whether it is in favour of European money or not. A third note has to do with the autonomous regions and the specific support programme, which is the POSEI ( Programme of Specific Options to Face Away and Insularity ). POSEI currently has a deficit of EUR 10 million for the Azores and EUR 5 million for Madeira, with a proposal from the European Union for a cut of EUR 3, 9 % on the table. Having said this, this is the time to find out what the courage of all parliamentary groups is, if this court is ahead and if what is missing is not restored. Will this House enter in the next State Budget all the missing amounts for the POSEI of the Azores and for the POSEI of Madeira? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-08.u95	For an intervention, Mrs Lara Martinho of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-08.u96	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At the end of this debate, it is clear that this COVID-19 pandemic has highlighted the importance of more resilient societies. In addition, it has made the interrelationship between our health, ecosystems, supply chains, consumption patterns and the limits of the planet even more emphasized. The reality is that, in addition to this pandemic, the challenges we face are also increasingly common, such as droughts, floods, forest fires and new pests, which are constant warnings that we must make our food system more sustainable and resilient. This pandemic stressed, in particular, the importance of having a solid food system, which operates independently of the circumstances, which guarantees access to safe and nutritious food and affordable and sustainable prices for citizens. But if the pandemic has highlighted this aspect, the reality that we cannot ignore either is that it has highlighted the role of agriculture and farmers, fisheries and fishermen and, above all, our country's response capacity, an answer that deserves to be evidenced and praised. We must also not forget the important contribution that agriculture and fisheries make to the growth of our economy. And we must strengthen this contribution, taking into account the role of wealth production, job creation, promotion of our products, combating inequalities, ensuring cohesive development of the territory, increasing opportunities and valuing people. Therefore, and on the basis of the importance of increasingly betting on a solid food system, we need to know the causes of the food deficit in our country in order to promote the best answers to this challenge. As regards the causes, these three points are obvious and indisputable: changes in food patterns; limitations on the level of edafoclimatic conditions; and the low concentration of supply. Identifying the causes, it is important to caution the best public policies that give the best answers. It's important to talk about the future! And what are the strategic areas in which we have to bet? in this context, we identify four strategic areas. First of all, the bet on innovation. The Ministry of Agriculture is making a strong commitment to creating an innovation agenda for agriculture 2030, with a focus on strengthening environmental, economic and social sustainability. The bet will have to go through technological development and innovation, allowing to create more value, more production, but sustainably. This agenda will also meet the requirements of the Ecological Pact, which has quantified targets and set ambitious challenges with implications in agriculture and the sea. Secondly, the bet on promoting national production and, in this context, we have the recent example of the food campaign which involves more than 1000 producers. This campaign has strengthened and validated the importance of valuing our production and encouraging all Portuguese to consume national products. Thirdly, the bet on internationalization. Opening up new markets has been a priority for this government. Portugal is represented in more than 60 countries where it can export around 250 types of products and is negotiating the opening of around 60 markets for export viability of around 300 products. In addition, the Government has been working on a strategy to resume internationalisation so that we can not only export more and guarantee the balance of our trade balance, but also reduce imports, with the appreciation of what is ours. I recall that between 2010 and 2019 exports grew at an annual rate of 5, 1 % while imports increased by 2, 2 % per year. Finally, but not least, the new Community funds. The recovery plan and the new multiannual financial framework must materialise the relevance these sectors have shown in response to this crisis. If, in recent years, it has become evident that food produced in Europe is a global reference, synonymous with safe, abundant, nutritious and high-quality food, we must now continue to bet on its sustainability. And the new common fisheries policy and the new common agricultural policy must continue to support fishermen and farmers in the transition to sustainable food systems and, at the same time, ensure them a dignified life. We will therefore continue to demand a common fisheries policy which encourages a dynamic fisheries sector, supports generation renewal and ensures a fair standard of living for coastal communities. We will therefore continue to demand a more just and inclusive CAP after-2020, concerned with the preservation of natural resources and which represents a concerted response to mitigation and adaptation to climate change, in line with the European Ecological Pact and the Fork Farm Strategy, without forgetting the strengthening of support for the outermost regions.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-08.u97	I would ask you to conclude, Mrs Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-08.u98	I shall indeed conclude, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the pandemic has highlighted the importance of deep reflection and the existence of strong institutions with joint and coherent strategies, based on union and solidarity. And this is the way we hope that the European Union will follow, a path that will be set in Europe's economic recovery, a path that will pave the way for the future of Europe! No one will stay behind. This has been, is and will always be our priority. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-08.u99	For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Silva of the Parliamentary Group of the Green Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-08.u100	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, there has been a lot of talk here about climate change and environmental protection. however, some have not yet realized that sustainability does not pass through soil depletion, nor water pollution. The Greens argue that public investment, government action must even be directed to two clear objectives: to defend employment and to defend the environment. One and the other are not contradictory, as some imagine, rather on the contrary. The radical change in existing policies must take place in order to have a strong impact on the rights and needs of citizens and, consequently, on the national economy. Investment in collective public transport must be a reality, with the strengthening of times, careers, trains, boats, metro cars. Providing the whole country of public transport, with greater coverage, with a higher incidence for rail, is not only protecting the environment, such as creating jobs and respecting the right to mobility. in the same way, human and technical means should be strengthened for environmental monitoring and inspection, in order to prevent aggression to natural resources and spaces, not allowing the resumption of the economy to be a justification for pollution, for the uncontrolled exploitation of natural resources without respect for biodiversity, for the preservation of nature and for populations. The Greens Ecological Party believes that efforts to improve the country's environmental standards can allow the creation of many new jobs, particularly at this stage when it is estimated that more than 100 000 people will be unemployed, since early March. In the face of the economic and social crisis that is approaching and within the framework of the necessary economic recovery, but also the need to achieve better environmental standards, the commitment to recycling is also a way of boosting job creation, estimated at more than 5000 direct and permanent jobs in this sector in the coming years. Another policy is possible. Do the PS and the government want such a change?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-08.u101	Mr João Marques of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-08.u102	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: during this debate, everyone seemed to agree that agriculture was one of the most important sectors for the independence of one country. Without agricultural production, there is no food, economic and social sovereignty, not even political sovereignty. As far as this is concerned, there seems to be no doubt. What still scares us are the speeches of almost hate that the radical left, assumed or disguised, has in relation to the agricultural sector, farmers, national production and even employment associated with this essential activity. And it is proven, if we look at the demographic evolution of some municipalities, that have reduced or stagnated depopulation, and also at the increase of students in their schools. The speeches 'anti-anything' have been spreading and spreading with you inverts and myths that greatly damage agricultural production and, consequently, our food sovereignty. Everything without any scientific basis. There are many and many cases. From the phytopherms, through dairy and beef production, to olive and intensive crops, everything has served to feed this narrative « anti». In view of this, policy has begun to discuss much more of these issues than guidelines on agricultural and food public policy. And even in debates like today, which were intended to be comprehensive and programmatic, it was not possible to escape these cases, having not been able to discuss or understand the government's strategic macro-options for the national agroforestry sector and for food sovereignty. For example, what strategy is the Government's approach to national agriculture in the new Community framework? Nobody knows. Worse, no one gets it. And why? Because it simply does not exist! Mr. Minister's speeches with contradictory objectives reveal a worrying disorientation. It speaks with innovation bricks and technology in the sector, such as precision agriculture, but paradoxically secondary this productive, competitive and business agriculture. More: where are the concrete measures to achieve food self-sufficiency in 2021? What happens to agricultural productivity in the face of the visible decline in investment since 2018? Also in the forest, the inoperance of forest reform led to a rupture of options, leaving the so-called "greater reform since the times of D. Dinis", and when, after all, this reform for the next decade, as the previous Minister said, only lasted two years and was never implemented. We simply pay attention to the territories destroyed by the fires of 2017 to verify this government failure. Nothing, however, has been done so far, witnessing a natural regeneration of the eucalyptus, acacias and other invasive species, which will prevent a deep and structural organization and future planning of the forest, a forest of landscapes and carbon sequestration, but also a forest of production, a creator of wealth for the populations, for the forest owners and producers, also witnessing the massive abandonment of the populations of those territories, which are almost desert. These government disorientations naturally harm the investors of the agroforestry sector, who need even more stability and predictability in order to produce high-quality food and forest goods. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD advocates policies aimed at achieving our value food self-sufficiency. We therefore value our main production and export lines. We cannot believe that we are able to produce everything that the modern consumer, and so far globalized, wants, not everything that the Portuguese consumes, but we can add to a food sovereignty in European terms. In order to be achieved, this desire will require instruments of public policy and a just and supportive CAP, which will focus on the choice of agricultural production in European territory, thus generating competitive food in environmental terms, in quality and quantity, to respond to the challenge of the growth of the world population. So far, the Government's answers leave us with many doubts and concerns to defend this option. The PSD will continue in the Assembly of the Republic and the European Parliament to defend the agricultural sector as the primary and essential to national sovereignty, without ideological dogmas and always based on scientific truths and evidence. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-08.u103	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us turn to the end of the debate. To that end, Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-08.u104	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We bring the debate to a central issue in the near future, on alternative policy and response to the needs of the Portuguese people, food sovereignty, production and employment. The structural deficits facing the country require solutions that the right-wing policy, pursued by successive PS governments, PSD and CDS, has not been able to respond. The reality we have in recent months reveals the importance of the role of workers and the centrality of work, the importance of national production and the need of the country to ensure food sovereignty and the production of essential goods, the value of the internal market as an engine of development and economic growth, the need for public control of enterprises and strategic sectors or the role of public services. They are aspects that cannot be ignored in the future.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-08.u105	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-08.u106	Development is inseparable from the value of work and workers. The world of work is marked by exploitation, low wages — indeed, one of the main causes of inequality and poverty — precariousness and instability, disrespect for labour rights and various attempts to settle them. Promoting employment and rights stability is fundamental to combating unemployment and precariousness, guaranteeing living conditions for workers and creating wealth in our country. The overall valuation of wages and national minimum wage for €850 is crucial to combating poverty, concentration of wealth and the worsening of exploitation. And for the valuation of wages, it is of particular importance to collective bargaining, which has a structural role in regulating work. The collective contract establishes wages and establishes rights in conditions more favourable to workers, such as the payment of overtime and night work, compensatory rest, shift allowance, the increase of holidays, holidays and rest days. Technological and scientific advancement must be at the service of improving living and working conditions, ensuring decent times and time to live. There is no lack of proposals from the CFP to overcome the country's structural problems. To promote national production, to eliminate the serious standards of labour law, in particular the expiry of the collective contract for the most favourable treatment of workers, the elimination of the mechanisms for the deregulation of working hours, the definition of working hours for 35 hours per week in the public and private sectors, the fight against precariousness, the strengthening of workers' rights in shift and at night are some of the examples. Life has already been entrusted with demonstrating that the right-wing policy of PS, PSD and CDS is not a solution. And, in the face of the economic and social problems that we live in, the increase in exploitation, poverty, inequalities and cuts in wages do not allow for development and are not a solution. We understand very well that the CDS and PSD seek to return to the past, because in fact, what they were confronted with was the whole rhetoric of the inevitability of what your political options were, when it was actually possible to be different.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-08.u107	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-08.u108	With the intervention of the CFP, determining in our country, it was possible to restore rights and incomes, it was possible to advance in economic growth, beyond what is necessary in our country, it is true, but it has shown that it is possible to do different and that we are not condemned to exploitation and impoverishment. We don't need more of that. Contrary to those who defend subservience to the European Union's taxes, which led to the slaughter of the fishing fleet, the abandonment of the fields, the destruction of productive potential, the destruction of jobs, the CFP defends the incentive to production and job creation. Those who accuse us of isolationism are the same ones that are always available to lose more and more new parts of sovereignty, so that they are the others to decide for us. Defending sovereignty is defending that it is the Portuguese people who have the power to decide our country's future. To defend food sovereignty is not to stop producing or increasing our dependence, but to take advantage of our potential and resources and our productive capacity. That is why we need an alternative, patriotic and left-wing policy that does not resonate with the interests of large capital and that assumes production, employment, sovereignty, strengthening rights as strategic axes for the development of the country, a patriotic and left-wing policy that values work and workers, wages and careers, the modernization of the diversified and dynamic productive apparatus, a strong business sector of the State, the public control of strategic enterprises, for example in the banking, energy, postal service, transport, the defense of agriculture, fisheries, capable of supplying the country, the strengthening of public investment and public services and the recovery of national sovereignty. This is the commitment of the CFP. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-08.u109	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of today's debate. Mrs. Secretary Sofia Araújo will make an announcement to the House. Please, Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-08.u110	Mr. President, I inform you that you were present at this session by video conference Mr.Sérgio Marques, of the Social Democratic Party, elected by the electoral circle of Madeira.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-08.u111	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow the plenary session will meet at 3 p.m. on the next item. the first point is the debate on the priorities of the Presidency of the Council of the European Union, as provided for in Article 4 ( 1 ( b ). the Act on the Monitoring, Evaluation and Pronunciation by the Assembly of the Republic, in the framework of the European Union building process ( Law No 43 / 2006 of 25 August, as amended by Law No 21 / 2012 of 17 May and Law No 18 / 2018 of 2 May ) and the debate on the annual report sent by the Government on the participation of Portugal in the European Union building process, in accordance with Article 4 ( 1 ( b ). Article 5 ( 4 ) and ( 4 ). the same Law, together with the discussion of Resolution Projects Nos 556 / XIV / 1. a ( CAE ) — Assessment of the report on « Portugal in the European Union, 2019 » and 566 / XIV / 1. a ( CAE ) — Adoption by the Assembly of the European initiatives considered as priority for the purpose of scrutiny under the European Commission's 2020 work programme. The second point is the discussion of Bill No. 456 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Extends the deadline for the holding by means of distance communication of meetings of local authorities and inter-municipal authorities, making the fifth amendment to Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March. in the third point, we will discuss the Bill No 43 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Strengthen taxpayer guarantees and procedural simplification, Bill No. 465 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Addition to the Code of Procedure and Tax Procedure by introducing the fiscal conciliation process and the Draft Resolution No 548 / XIV / 1. a (IL) — by transparency and balance in the relationship between the State and the taxpayer. of the fourth point is the opinion of the Proposal for a Law No 44 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Transposing Directive ( EU ) 2018 / 1808, of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 November 2018 on the provision of audiovisual media services. on the fifth point, we will discuss the Bill No 45 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Authorizes the Government to legislate on board fishing vessels and the activity of seafarers on board ships by transposing Directives ( EU ) 2017 / 159 and 2018 / 131. in the sixth point, we will proceed to the discussion of the Bill No 46 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Defines the objectives, priorities and guidelines for criminal policy for the biennium 2020 - 2022. The seventh point consists of the assessment of the Bill No 49 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Promotes the simplification of various administrative procedures, including local authorities, and introduces amendments to the Code of Administrative Procedure. of the eighth and final point is discussed in the Proposal for a Law No 48 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Establishs the tax regime of UEFA Champions League 2019 / 2020 competition organizers and extends the tax exemption on value added in intra-Community transmissions and acquisitions of goods necessary for the fight against COVID-19. Like the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a long order of work for tomorrow. I wish everyone else a good afternoon. See you tomorrow and thank you very much. The session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 16 minutes.]]
