ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists. The session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 4 minutes.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, before any other announcement, I should like to inform you that Mrs Cristina Rodrigues has sent me a letter saying that she has informed the PAN Parliamentary Group that she has no longer had working conditions to continue to integrate this parliamentary group and that she intends to fulfil the rest of her mandate as an unregistered Member. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic, he gave me this letter, so it will be done. The honourable Member will take another place on the bench and other correct facts that must be made, of course, will not be discussed today, but will be-CL-in the future. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us begin our agenda, which consists in assessing the Government's appeal 5 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — About the current situation of justice in Portugal. I'm asking the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen standing in the Chamber to sit down in order to start the work as soon as possible and with minimum conditions. To open the debate, Mr Peixoto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u2	Mr President, Mrs. Minister for Justice, Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: The pandemic has concentrated — and well — national efforts in the areas of health, economics and finance. Now that the country will have to re-emerge itself in its entirety, another sector emerges, that of justice, which, being more than a master trave of the rule of law, is the basis of society, within the meaning of Aristotle, is something greater than power, in the formulation of Malraux, and is a tone in the freedom and development of peoples, in the feeling of each one of us. That is why a debate on justice is always central and current. And more priority becomes in the context of economic and social crisis, in which it is pressing whether the system is capable or not to respond to the constraints that have arisen and, more than that, it is muscled to be one of the drivers of the economy, a strategic sector of governance and a guarantee of the rights of Portuguese. Now there is no need to be an impertinent critic of this government's policy in order to insinuate that, in this matter, the King, not going naked himself, is not dressed properly. The idea that justice is unfair and unequal, which always works late for the powerful, who is slow, formalistic and rareful of means and resources, is no error of perception of society, it is no conspiracy against the government, it is not a curse, it is, unfortunately, an unmistakable evidence. If there were serious problems before, now, with COVID they got worse. The contingency plan that existed for the courts and registries and notarial services during the state of emergency no longer exists with the new normality. from that it is imperative today to know whether, in the face of one or more cases of infection in any court and before the inevitable quarantine of other officials and magistrates, the facilities will close or remain open, what happens to the processes there, where and by whom they will be processed and what is done with the deadlines of these proceedings. Will the Minister and the government have a response to this? If at this uncertainty we add to the certainty that justice has been all this time in almost vegetative state, with a crushing delay of diligence, it is supposed that in time it will come to pressure and black clouds on the sector. Therefore, careful therapy was required, but the option was another. After three months of forced holidays for many of the judicial officers, the government did not even outline an attempt to study the shortening of the legal holidays enjoyed, leaving the system, by obligation and by option, with very low productivity indices. There are those who speak in the Republic of Judges. Without adjustment on vacation, without paying IRS in part of the incomes that take 14 months per year, without subjecting to impediments or conflicts of interest in returning to the judiciary after exercising political positions, without control or brake in the manual and surgical distribution of proceedings in higher courts, the case is no less. The Minister, even though she was a judge, could have helped to purify this anathema, because she holds a folder where the requirements of example and transparency are even greater. But no, he didn't, as it should be, have a self-limiter personal scruple. He appointed as his deputy a judge of the Supreme Court who was sentenced in a disciplinary sentence to suspend the exercise of office because he pressured two prosecutors to file suspicions against then Prime Minister José Socrates in the Freeport case. The person concerned, Mrs. Minister, may be very capable and even be rehabilitated as a judge, but his competence does not rehabilitate him morally and ethically for what he has done. [[PSD applause.]] The appointment of the President of the IGFEJ — Institute of Financial Management and Justice Equipment — is also not a medal to be proud of. It is not the person concerned but rather a pre-nomination procedure that at hour H at the time of the CRESAP ( Public Administration Recruitment and Selection Committee ), granted him sub-liminary advantages in relation to other candidates who had no experience in the position and who were therefore pre-arranged. These examples, Mrs. Minister, are not just controversial cases, are nods in the eyes of the world with regard to the fight against corruption.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u3	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u4	GRECO ( The Group of States against Corruption) has just reminded us that we are at the level of Armenia, Turkey and Northern Macedonia in implementing anti-corruption measures. It says that we have not complied with many recommendations and this may not even be true, but, Madam Minister, what is wrong is that the two representatives of the Government with that body have not opened their mouths to defend our country internationally, warning that we have already taken measures whose fault has been signalled, including here in the Assembly of the Republic. [[PSD applause.]] If in this dimension we are of the weakest, in the percentage of the release of prisoners we were of the strongest. On the false pretext of the COVID, the government cleared sentences and whitened crimes of criminals, but forgot that some of them had neither home nor family to welcome them, worthing them hospitals. The concern with the contagion was so great that the hundreds that come out, and enter, for enjoyment of precariousness they don't even test the COVID and those who stay there still piled up in common cells and in pretty little ones. In criminal justice, violations of the secret of justice continue to proliferate impunity. The painful mega-processes do not stop, making media delights, always protected by the unacceptable press notes of the Public Prosecutor's Office after the charges, putting the presumption of innocence in the drawer and vitally rooting the honorability of the visas, invariably led to the hands of only two superjudges at the stage of instruction, in an incomprehensible reducing logic and, I think, unique in Europe. Separation of processes and a better assessment of the principle of connection are required. The negotiation of some sentences under trial yesterday made public, being positive, still calls for serious debate, but will obviously have to be considered. Administrative and fiscal justice has been resonating for decades with obscene expectations and delays, which neither the recruitment of judges has resolved, but to which the Government has generously devoted €100,000 in this Supplementary Budget. Simplification of the respective legislation and increased dispute resolution by arbitration may be solutions. Cable justice has reasonable benefits, but it can improve. It is necessary to study an electronic notification system for all stakeholders, in parallel with what is already happening in some procedures of the Tax Authority, and a much more expedited system of expertise (especially doctors) needs to be reconsidered. Access to justice is either for the poor, who do not pay for judicial support, or it is for the rich, who can bear the principal value of judicial costs. The middle class, the one that uses the courts most, is crushed and almost castrated to fight and fight for their rights. A formula must be found to reduce the value of procedural costs, even if it is due to an increased effort from the State budget. The lawyers, key parts of the system, go around with their very little guarantee system and with their fair remuneration for the services provided under the informal sponsorship. It is not sustainable that they are the only professionals who have not updated their salaries for more than 15 years and it is not fair that these remunerations are exactly the same for those who work hard and for those who work little or nothing. in this regard, the Government must also be a much more active decision-maker. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the most dynamic states of the European Union, Ireland, Finland, Spain, Denmark, all passed through consensus and long-term biases in their modernization process. This is why the appeals of the President of the Republic and the leader of the PSD for pacts in the area of justice have unfortunately been on the way. But we do not give up, because, as Walter Elliot says, «Perseverance is not a long run, there are many short races, one after the other, and one of them has to work out». [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u5	On behalf of the Government, you have the floor of Ms. Justice Minister Francisca Van Dunem.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Mr. Carlos Peixoto, this appeal is basically the repetition of what you did in 2018...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u7	Well!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u8	...and I can't help but present here my huge astonishment at the circumstances of the interpellation that was today, here, brought to the side of the great current themes of justice. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u9	So, what are the great themes? Tell me!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u10	Interpellation is always the case. Mr President, you have completely sided with the broad lines that have been set for justice, for example in the framework of the Presidency of the Council of the European Union which will take place in the next 18 months and which will define a strategy of justice for Europe. That happened to him, I repeat, completely next door. Then, even with regard to the issue of COVID and its effects, it seemed to me that the honourable Member brought here questions of micro-management, that is, the honourable Member is concerned about the problem of room, equipment, where the process lies, etc. I would therefore like to tell you the following: the contingency programmes for courts have been updated and there are currently no courts or management bodies that do not know what to do if there is a contamination case. Mr President, I would say that the micro-management of the courts is indisputably important, but it is not a matter of governance. The Government, as the system responsible, has an effective duty to ensure basic operating conditions, which means that in some dimensions it has the concern to ensure a range of services, especially essential services, to the functioning of the courts. Now, with regard to these issues of daily life, as you know, in 2014, there has been a reform that has exactly served, among other things, to create management bodies that did local management, so these bodies must assume this responsibility. Debates of the European Parliament Let me tell you that what you have spoken about, that is, the issue of the crisis and of the COVID, has fully confirmed the reason that you have seen us when we said that the great programme for justice, in this legislature, should be modernisation and digital transformation. In fact, this is one of the major issues on the European agenda and I must say that Portugal should not move anyone in this respect. On the contrary, Portugal appears as an example—and a permanently commendable example—both at the level of the European Union and at the level of the OECD. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr President, we have today, thanks to the work done throughout the previous Parliament, electronic processing systems which are safe systems and systems that facilitate the interaction of the court with the parties. Our systems today allow remote communication in a dematerialized way with multiple-entity systems that intervene in the process, regardless of whether they are parties or subject to proceedings. And I am not referring only to entities in the orbit of justice; I am referring to other entities, such as the financial sector, the AT ( Tax Authority ), with regard to matters relating to families and minors, social security, and also to the Banco de Portugal or the Food Guarantee Fund due to minors ( FGADM ). Mr President, we have developed Citius vertically and in this pandemic it has been proven that this movement was very important to enable the courts to continue to work in the various segments of 1. the instance to the Supreme, and in particular allowed the higher instances to work remotely and practice a set of acts that should be present with the use of electronic platforms. Mr President, regardless of the shortcomings that may still exist in the system, there is data to be recalled. I would therefore remind you here that the investment we made in dematerialization, particularly through the Justice and Next Plan, has given a strong boost to reducing our procedural expectations, which, as you know, in four years, have been broken in the order of 42 %. We are talking here of 42 % at the level of civil procedural expectations and we are also talking about a reduction in response time, which increased from 27 months in 2007 to 12 months in 2019. Either you want, or not, this is a good result. This is due, indeed, to the magistrates — not to a republic of judges, but to judges — to the officers of justice and also, in great measure, to what was possible to simplify and dematerialize in the justice system. Access to the right, which you have mentioned, is obviously a concern that we share, and that is, in fact, one of the big issues. Justice should focus on people. But I would like to remind you one thing: the financial dimension and the dimension of which you have spoken does not exhaust the problem of access to law. And once again, I return to dematerialization to remind you, Mr President, that, when we talk about dematerialization, we also talk about remote access, particularly through the possibility of electronic consultation of processes, and we also talk about facilitating access to justice, when we talk about, in particular, simplifying the content of citations and notifications, which is a project that is now under way. With regard to the more concrete questions which you have raised on access to law, I would like to say only two things. In addition to what I have said, it is now being published that the door is being updated with the remuneration of the Members. Advocates in the system of access to law and the legislative process concerning the global package of access to law that maintains the fundamental features of the proposal we brought here in the past legislature has been restarted. What does that mean? It basically means a redefinition of the concept of economic insufficiency, both for natural and legal persons, now that the latter can also access the law, the forecast of the escalation of the benefit based on the income of the person concerned and the extension of the legal consultation. Mr President, as a result of my regiment hearing — and let us not forget that my regiment hearing took place two days ago — decided to take up some of the issues raised here today and here. I said, and I say again, that I do not intend to do in Parliament the discussion of issues which have been the subject of both the administration and the discipline of the judiciary and the courts. But I also repeat here, Mr. Member, that the Supreme Council of the Public Ministry, the body which disciplinaryly sanctioned the judge you spoke about, was the same body that rehabilitated him. And as a result, this Judge was placed as a judge in the highest instance of the national judicial order.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u11	That's not what's at stake!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u12	And what I ask you is whether he does not have the right to be a Counsellor in the Supreme Court of Justice. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u13	Maybe you don't, Minister!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u14	Mrs. Members, I very much respect the principle of the separation of powers and, obviously, in accordance with that principle, the definition of the suitability of that judge was made by the Supreme Council of the Magistracy at the time you thought it had to do so. On the other issue, in fact, on the other small cause you put, because we live a lot of small causes, which has to do with an appointment to... [[Protests from PSD MP Carlos Peixoto.]] Yes, it's another small cause! But, Mr President, let me speak now, because I did not interrupt him. As I said, regarding the other small cause that you have put, I think you have a problem of lack of knowledge of how the administration of justice works. You will not calculate that a structure such as the Institute of Financial Management and Justice Equipment can live with two leaders and without a president. Therefore, if there is a President who comes out suddenly, there is another who must necessarily be appointed—and appointed under a replacement regime—to ensure the operation of that unit. Moreover, the issues that you have raised are very utopian issues, which do not have to do with a logic and a strategy for justice. We are willing to cooperate and receive all the useful contributions to improve the functioning of the system, but we are not available to work on the basis of the details. They present a strategy, define a strategy and discuss that strategy. There, we'll work together. Otherwise, no. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u15	We will enter the stage of the debate, beginning with requests for clarification to Mr. Carlos Peixato. To this end, three Members have signed up. Members, the first of whom is Mr José Magalhães, of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u16	Mr President, Mr Carlos Peixoto, the honourable Member is definitely no good for metaphors.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u17	For what?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u18	For the metaphors! It's not good for metaphors. It now comes with the metaphor of 'the king goes naked' — or 'the President goes naked' or 'the President goes broken', whatever he wants, within that genre' when he is the author of that metaphor of the 'grey plague' that defines it ethically as someone who does not deserve any ethical respect. None! Do not keep on seeking. ” [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD Member Protest Duarte Marques.]] It must therefore be recognized that this matter must be seriously discussed. The Minister has just put the issues on her own and the honourable Member goes down to the point where, on such important issues as the Portuguese Presidency of the Council of the European Union and the common programme which has been approved and is known, do not say a word! He could say half the word « we agree», « we do not agree» or « we agree», but he does not say, and made a number of illusions which need to be emphasized and which does not go unnoticed. For months, the PSD walked around—both when it was responsible for the area of justice for Dr. Elina Fraga and now, who is responsible for the same area for Dr. Monica Quintela—proclaiming that there was one point, only one point, nevrálgic to make a magical change in justice: a constitutional review that changed the composition of the Supreme Council of the Public Ministry and allowed the injection of independents by the hands of the President of the Republic, etc. etc. Now, we said to that: "Don't go around. It is that if you want a constitutional review, without us, you don't move one centimeter, either way or to the other. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u19	We know that!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u20	« And, if the central point is that, they are ignoring the real agenda,... » — and now, with the COVID-19, even more obvious and more demanding— «...which is the agenda of reality». On the other hand, they make a completely inaccurate description of reality, a sort of 'Ternobyl judiciary' — that was the picture that Mr Silvano here drew. [[Protests from PSD Members.]] I repeat, « Chernobyl judicial », as described by José Silvano. And you should be careful — watch out, little one! — because, in this respect, the picture is that which the Minister discussed, which is in the European Union's Justice Assessment Panel and which is in a magnificent study by the OECD, which he clearly did not read about the technological reforms that are under way. [[Protests from PSD Members.]] So let's go back to COVID-19. You do not present any proposal, nor in the Supplementary Budget, nor now, and we would like to ask what your opinion is — and I conclude by that — about the proposals in the Economic and Social Stabilization Programme, namely: a transitional system for reducing legal costs; a strengthening of trade and labour judges; a public system for supporting reconciliation in over-independence; an increase in the efficiency of administrative and fiscal courts, with concrete measures we have identified; a change in the insolvency and recovery process of companies. What do they say about these issues? It is that the citizens are looking at us in search of answers to these questions and the honourable Members. Deputies or insult magistrates indiscriminately, mixing everything and all,... [[PSD Member Protest Duarte Marques.]] ... or present no proposal on any topic. And with that, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, they do not qualify, nor do they help the debate. They do, indeed, help to a very critical and unfavourable external view of the functioning of justice. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u21	To request clarification, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u22	Mr President, Mr Peixoto, I congratulate you on the subject you are bringing here today, which is of the greatest importance. I'll be quick on the clarification request, because I have to manage my time. My starting point is this: Portugal is already a champion of waiting lists, in health, in social security, now in education, as we discussed here yesterday, and, for a long time, in justice, where, now, it will be worse due to the situation generated during the pandemic. Mr President, this function of the State is a master of the rule of law. In view of its importance, the question is simple: what is the position of the honourable Member and his party regarding the suspension of administrative deadlines during the pandemic, the failure to shorten judicial holidays and also — since we have not heard his leader speak of this for a long time — the independence of the Public Prosecutor and the general independence of the judicial system at this time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u23	It's not independence, it's autonomy! You have to make the distinction.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u24	Mr António Filipe of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u25	Mr President, Mr. Carlos Peixoto, when we saw the PSD schedule an inquiry on the state of justice we were somewhat curious about what issues the PSD would put on the table for discussion. Now, what you brought us here was some things, some loose issues, vaguely touching some aspects of justice, which at one time seemed to be against the judges.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u26	What else did you want? Tell me!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u27	In fact, we must recognize that some boldness on the part of the PSD is needed to bring an inquiry into justice to the Assembly of the Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u28	Lata!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u29	It is a bit, as our people say, "to speak of rope in hanging houses"! The honourable Member is here a few years ago and who is here a few years ago, as you remember, he has spent four years defending the closure of the courts, which had been decided by the PSD/CDS government! [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u30	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u31	More: at a time when, fortunately, we were not confronted with any pandemic there was a 'cibernetic pandemic' in the Ministry of Justice with the crash of the Citius system, which left the system to the darkness for weeks! You were here in Parliament and out there was Dr. Elina Fraga, in a demonstration of Toga lawyers against the closure of the courts, which had been decided by the PSD/CDS government!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u32	Great times! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u33	It is therefore necessary, in fact, a great audacity for the PSD to come here to talk about justice. The honourable Member may finally bring me that speech from the PSD: "Well, at the time there was a troika, it was the troika he wanted us to close the courts". But, Mr President, we are back to a more recent period. The PSD has been in the opposition for a few years now and we will see how the PSD has voted, still recently—and I am not going to talk about the amending budget, I am talking about the current State budget—a series of proposals which the CFP has brought here, in the debate of the State budget for 2020, to help solve certain justice problems. None of these proposals were voted in favour of the PSD!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u34	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u35	That is to say, we can talk about the increase in the frameworks for the judicial police, of the plan for the development of criminal investigation, which the CFP proposed here, of proposals for the reduction or exemption of judicial costs, in particular for victims of work, of the establishment of offices of support for judges, of the opening of competitions for the Institute of Registers and Notaries, and none of these proposals voted in favour of the PSD. So how do you want to convince us that you are very concerned about the situation of justice in Portugal when, indeed, you have done nothing when you were in government and now you have no positive contribution to improving the situation of justice? [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u36	To reply, Mr. Carlos Peixoto has the floor. [[Pause.]] The three questions have already been asked, and you will have to answer the three together, since you did not signal to the Bureau that you would like to answer differently. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u37	Mr. President, that will be the case. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I am grateful for all the questions that have been put to me and also for the intervention of the Minister, who raised the question of our initial intervention, and we learned that on the Government's side, COVID is a micro-management problem. COVID, a pandemic that worries the whole country, for Mrs. Minister is a little bit of a problem! We knew that.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u38	Who said that? Oh, my God! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u39	Mrs Minister, after saying that the PSD brings here small questions, she asked for a great favor: do a self-assessment exercise and tell the whole country which is the brand, which the Minister leaves when she leaves this ministry — this is an self-assessment exercise —... [[Protests of PS Members.]] ...and compare with what your colleague did in the previous government. Then let us see if the Minister is a minister of cause and strategy or if she is limited to touch and retouch.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u40	You'd better not!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u41	With regard to Mr. José Magalhães, who has just raised his hand, I want to say the following: Mr. José Magalhães, I may not have the way to metaphors, but the honourable Member has the way to insult colleagues and Parliament by bringing here to a different point! That's how you do it! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u42	Over gray? Oh, my God! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u43	Mr. José Magalhães, instead of worrying about it, turn around the courts and come here and talk about what you know and not what you don't know! Mr. Deputy hasn't been in court for a long time...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u44	Who told you that? Oh, my God! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u45	...and, therefore, you think all these issues that the PSD brought here do not matter at all. Cable justice doesn't matter! Criminal justice doesn't matter! Administrative justice does not matter! For you, it matters Chernobyl! Chernobyl, that's it! [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests by PS Member José Magalhães.]] Now, Mr. José Magalhães, spoke of the Reformary Budget : look, it can only be parody when the government assigns to the administrative and tax courts €100,000 to solve their problems! This is a joke! Therefore, the honourable Member brings matters which he should not bring to the table. Mr.António Filipe, I already knew that the CFP missal is always the same. [[CH's laughs.]] The CFP believes that the others never bring anything again and that the CFP is that it always brings the big proposals, but knows what the great audacity of the CFP is, since it has accused us of lack of boldness? It is to make large proposals that know they are not accommodated in the State budgets and then hypocritically vote on the State budgets alongside the Socialist Party, knowing that these proposals are not there. That is what you repeatedly do. [[PSD applause.]] Therefore, Mr President, on this issue we understand.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u46	That's a new missal!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u47	In everything that was said here, since the COVID to all the concerns we brought here, Mrs. Minister, the PSD was not isolated. We sit here, make opposition, denounce, remember, warn, alert and can't lead to harm. And those questions you have spoken about are not « home». Your advisor is not a « home», Mrs Minister, it is a matter of good or bad practices, it is a matter of hygiene and purification of the democratic system. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u48	Mr Justice may have been judicially rehabilitated, but it is neither politically nor morally rehabilitated, and the Minister was obliged, because she is Minister of Justice, to set an example and to raise the criteria of requirement, which she unfortunately did not raise. That's why, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, here we are quiet and clean-faced. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u49	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u50	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u51	Mr President, it is for the sake of honor in relation to Mr. Carlos Peixoto's statements... [[Oh!...]] [[Protests from PSD MP Carlos Peixoto.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u52	The honourable Member, as you well know, has to explain in what way his honour has been offended.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u53	I am now approaching this important issue, Mr President. It is in relation to the statements made by Mr. Carlos Peixoto that this bench, instead of seriously discussing the issues of justice policy, will have gone through the path of insult to the PSD bench.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u54	Mr President, I do not see where the question of honor is put, but do the favor. [[PSD applause.]] It's better to quickly make your defense, and the PSD responds, to waste less time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u55	Mr. President, I think so. Thank you very much for giving me the floor. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, what will happen here can be of all importance or no importance, but this debate cannot be done under the sign of insult and suspicion. [[PSD laughter.]] We did exactly the opposite. The honourable Member, as you have now seen, is entitled to life imprisonment, life sentence for those who have had a disciplinary trial. [[That's demagogy!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u56	It's just said! Therefore, it has a concept of truly a democratic state of brass and believes that its absurd phrase of "grey plague" must be lost in memory! [[Hey!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u57	But listen, it is not lost and we will invoke this, but in this debate we want to discuss justice and you have no proposal and do not respond to ours. That's the problem. As for the rest, Mr President, I would like to make a better study of the metaphors and even the poets I quote. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u58	To reply, if you will, Mr Peixoto has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u59	Mr President, Mr José Magalhães, it is only to tell you that you on top of the evil did the caramunha, because you did not have any kind of humility or portrayal and repeated a different fact, a nonsense.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u60	Withdrawal? Oh, my God! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u61	You don't read, you don't know what you're talking about, and so I won't even waste time with that. And you know why, Your Honor? Because I respect you, sir. [[Protests by PS Member José Magalhães.]] You know that we all have history, we have past, we have better things and worse things, you also have worse things and I abstain here from reporting. To your respect, to your good! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u62	It's better not to say it anymore! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u63	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us continue the debate. We moved on to the first round of requests for clarification to the Minister of Justice, with groups of five requests for clarification, as requested. The first request for clarification lies with Mrs Catarina Rocha Ferreira of the PSD Parliamentary Group. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u64	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, if I had the opportunity in January to congratulate the Minister on having the fight against corruption as a strategic priority, I do not do the same today.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u65	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u66	Do you want to move forward with an anti-corruption package? Yeah, it's true. Did you set up a working group on corruption? Yeah, it's true, too. But of what use are working groups, of what serve anti-corruption packages if this alone does not produce any result without the existence of means on the ground? In the midst of so much apparatus, in the midst of an apparent enormous commitment to the fight against corruption, how could anyone who investigates on the ground have been forgotten? This is something you don't remember the devil! It was therefore important for this opportunity to be used to explain to the Portuguese how the Socialist Party intends to carry out the fight against corruption if research entities have a huge lack of technical and human resources and if there is no political will on the part of the Socialist Party to change this situation. By the way, the justice budget did not reflect that priority. And it was not the government, nor was it the Socialist Party, who was concerned about changing this situation, that was all the other parties in this House. It was the PSD that proposed an increase of EUR 5 million to the budget of the Judicial Police for more means in combating corruption. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u67	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u68	And -- don't worry! — I repeat, the only political party sitting in this Parliament to vote against this strengthening of funds for the fight against corruption was the PS! The reinforcement was approved, yes, but with the favourable vote of the PSD and all the opposition parties, because the Socialist Party vote was against. It is incomprehensible why we do not want to provide the PJ and the Public Ministry with technical means and capable people. And I say this in particular: the lack of human resources in the National Anti-Corruption Unit is so much that inspectors are investigating processes with four years' delay so that they do not prescribe. Now, if the investigation is not fast, it will lose its full effectiveness. In fact, in the PJ, who is not from Lisbon or compensates for making progress in the career: financially, the difference is little, implies a course of about nine months, necessarily in Lisbon, and, as it changes by category, can not even go back to the place of origin, where the person already had his own organized life. If it were a company, in view of the working conditions that they have, everyone had already left, and probably it was only because there are still people with a sense of justice in Portugal and with a commitment to the public cause. [[PSD applause.]] How does the Minister want to motivate her PJ employees if there are no incentives to evolve in the career? Oh, my God! It is not even understood why there is this blockade of criminal investigation. We all know that there is corruption, we are going to put an end to this and, therefore, in the context of the State budget, there is a serious political will to combat corruption. It is only lacking that this will also comes from the Government and the Socialist Party. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u69	To make the second request for clarification, Mr José Manuel Pureza, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u70	Mr President, Mrs Minister for Justice, Mrs and Mrs State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Ladies and gentlemen, if there is anything that cannot happen in the justice system, it is he himself not being fair and not complying with the law. But that is what is happening with the vast majority of the professionals who serve justice. The law is not complied with with with lawyers, applicants and implementing agents who obey a hierarchy, are obliged to work hours, have functional content defined by their superiors, are, in short, part of a true employment relationship, but are deprived of fundamental rights of any worker because they do not have a employment contract. Question : Is the government available to impose the law, determining that where there is a employment relationship there is a contract of employment? We have a justice system which is the first to deny justice to the most fragile lawyers economically, whose activity takes place, above all, within the framework of judicial support and whose remuneration is not reviewed for more than 16 years. Professionals who have lost income due to the closure of the courts and to whom the CPAS (Advocacy Box of Lawyers and Applicants), despite maintaining the monthly contribution of 251, 38 €, does not provide any of the support granted to other independent workers. Question : Is the Government available to carry out the review of the judicial support fee table urgently? Question : Is the Government available to take the step that the constitutional principle of social security unit requires, integrating CPAS into social security? The justice system denies justice and does not comply with the law for the justice officers and the workers of the IRN (Instituto de Registrets and the Notariado): chronic deficit of officials — 1500 in the IRN, 1000 judicial officers — workers kept in a category and paid as such but to perform higher category functions, judicial officials whose status remains incomprehensiblely to approve. Question : Is the Ministry of Justice available to confront those who have to face, in order to provide the justice system of the frameworks whose absence has long been identified? Question: whether or not the Government will comply with the State Budget Act for 2020, which sets the month of July this year as the deadline for the official publication of the Statute of Judicial Officials? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u71	Mr António Filipe, from the CFP, has the floor to request clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u72	Mr President, the Minister of Justice, when we hear it, we have a feeling that the Government intends to solve the problems of justice by means of computerized means, because much of the answers it gives to the questions that are put find a solution in the improvement of systems, the possibility of computerizing processes and dematerialization. Obviously, this is important and, obviously, technological acquisitions are welcome, but the problems of justice in Portugal are not solved alone or fundamentally by this way, because, if not, one day of these, it would all result in a matter of engineering and we know that life is not like that. Indeed, there are a number of problems that affect the justice sector in Portugal today and that need to find answers that have not been found so far. There is a very serious problem in the exercise of the profession of lawyer, particularly in view of the very significant number of younger lawyers who have great difficulty entering the labour market themselves, taking into account the high costs of recourse to justice for the vast majority of citizens, and also taking into account a problem that they have with the Law Box of Lawyers and Applicants, which is not adapted to the new reality with which the lawyer is faced. This is a problem that has to find some answer and that has not yet found it. On the issue of judicial costs and access to justice, in the previous legislature, although very late, a legislative initiative on judicial support was presented by the Government. But several months have passed since this Parliament and it is more than time for this to come back to the agenda in this House, not necessarily to approve what the Government had proposed at the end of the previous legislature but to ensure that the issue is in fact equalised in its various aspects, particularly in the area of cost policy, which is a very serious obstacle to access to justice and brings into question a fundamental right for many Portuguese citizens, probably the majority, who do not have financial resources to deal with court proceedings, but also for their own judicial professions. There are issues that are not resolved and which are provided for in the law, including the provision of courts with judges'advisers, so that the proceedings can be dealt with more quickly and in good quality, there are aspects of statutes that are to be resolved, such as the Statute of the Judicial Officers, which is to be published, and there are statutes that have been published but are not regulated, particularly the Statute of the Judicial Police. There are therefore, in fact, a number of problems that are not primarily addressed by the technological way in which they must be dealt with, but we have not seen enough determination on the part of the Government so far to address these problems and to move forward with concrete proposals towards its resolution. We hope, of course, that on these fundamental issues we can find solutions and that the Government will effectively contribute to its political measures and proposals so that they are in fact equalised. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u73	You have the floor now, too, to ask for clarification, Mr José Luís Ferreira, of the Greens.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u74	Mr President, Madam Minister of Justice, before I send you my request for clarification, allow me to health the PSD for having scheduled this inquiry to the Government on the current situation of justice in Portugal and that health not only for the opportunity of the matter but also because, this time, the PSD does not propose the closure of courts throughout the country, as it did when it was in the government, further removing the justice of citizens, nor proposing increases in judicial costs,... [[PSD Member Protests José Cancela Moura.]] ... so that citizens do not resort to courts, as you did when you were in government, thus denying access to the law and justice that is the obligation of the State to guarantee. I therefore welcome the PSD for these three facts. Mr Minister, justice is an absolutely central pillar of our democracy, it is a fundamental element of our state of democratic law and, in view of the situation of justice in Portugal, which, despite everything, continues to be marked by laxity and inundated by procedural expectations, what is required is that governments assume as a function, which is, moreover, theirs, working towards building a system of justice that is faster, more efficient and, above all, more accessible to citizens, because, if justice is not accessible to citizens, there is no justice for all and there is no justice for all, there is no justice at all. On the other hand, a delayed justice is also not justice and, therefore, there is no justice. Therefore, Mrs Minister, I was interested to know what measures the Government has been developing in order to make justice faster, more efficient and more accessible to the citizens and, now, what a balance is what makes it the result of these measures. But, Madam Minister, when we talk about justice, we also have to talk about the people who support it and, in the world of these people, about the officers of justice, as Mrs. Minister very well mentioned in the gallery. And it's exactly about the justice officers that has to do with my second question. Ms. Minister, the review of the Statute of Judicial Officers was approved in 1999 by Decree-Law No 343 / 99, and subsequently the State Budget Act for 2020, Law No 2 / 2020, established that both the Statute of Judicial Officers and the integration of the procedural recovery supplement and the creation of a differentiated retirement scheme for these professionals would be negotiated with the representative structures of the workers so that the process could be completed by the end of July of this year. Now, as we are a little more than one month from that period which is imposed by law, it would be of great interest to realize at what stage we are in terms of negotiations with the workers in order to comply with the law, that is, for these three matters to be completed by 31 July. I would therefore like to know not only at what stage the negotiations are going to take but also whether the deadline laid down in the law is going to be respected and whether the solutions found are actually going to result in real negotiation with the workers.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u75	Mr Telmo Correia, from the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, has the floor for the last request for clarification of this block.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u76	Mr President, Minister of Justice, the first issue we have in this debate has to do with a criticism, which I think is clear and fair, to the action of this government and even of the main party that supports the Government, which is the Socialist Party. We have all attended the debates in recent years, all of us, year after year, to the inevitable ceremony for the opening of the judicial year, we have been listening to the various speeches, from the President of the Republic to the various representatives of justice, and criticism is always the same: justice that is slow is not fair, justice is not swift and when one finally arrives at a decision, in the context of the proceedings, no one already remembers its origin, as they have begun. In the logic of this criticism, the question I ask you, Minister, is this: what has been done? Where is the great reformist will? And even I tell you, Mrs. Minister, that, to some extent, this criticism can be pointed out to various parties, particularly to today's interpelent party, the Social Democratic Party. It is because I have been here on 1 March 2018 presenting a set of CDS-PP proposals, which I have given you personally, Mrs. Minister — it does not matter whether it is the ideals or not, that is not what is at stake, but it was our political will to contribute to this reform—and since that day 1 March until now, there are about 800 days, I do not know this reformist will, in particular, of the major parties in this House. So this is an obvious question. The second question is more concrete, in fact, I take it back from the two-day regimental hearing, and it is the reaction to the pandemic, which would obviously also have a legal reflection around it. The government is now saying, which only shows that it has reacted late, that it will change the counter-ordering framework. I once asked, twice, three times, not the Minister, but the Minister of Internal Administration, if I did not think that this revision of the counter-ordering framework was necessary immediately, during confinement, because obviously this law would be even more necessary. That is why, Madam Minister, I ask you, in particular, if you do not think that we should not have a provisional solution, and we may also have a provisional solution, to answer tomorrow, but nothing tells us that next winter will be more complicated, nothing tells us that this pandemic situation cannot be extended — but a more stable solution and if, in this more stable solution, it would not be necessary, in particular, to predict an abstract danger crime, that is, we are not alone, as we are today, in the forecast of disobedience. Moreover, the prediction of an abstract danger crime has been defended by many jurists, and renowned jurists. With regard to acts at a distance, Mrs Minister, we would like to know the point of the situation, because we know that the issue is complex, particularly in notarial acts and other acts of registration, where we are far from the one that would be the objective. As far as corruption is concerned, I would like to say to you, Mrs Minister, that, from my point of view, the appointment in question, regardless of the explanations you have made, is a mistake, and it is a political mistake, in this country where the issue of corruption is serious, where the Freeport process is neither a detail nor a mere case. So connecting one thing to another is a political mistake. But more important than that, Mrs. Minister, is to understand, too here, what the strategy of the government is. We have defended, and we have put forward proposals in this regard, the strengthening of premium law, the strengthening of the statute of repentance, a clear status for the complainants and, above all, more means to combat corruption. I ask you, Madam Minister, what will the government do, because, frankly, from this point of view, we do not think that this mandate, and we are already going to its second, has been a reformist mandate or that there may be a reformist vocation within the scope of the work done.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u77	To respond to this set of requests for clarification, you have the floor of Ms. Justice Minister Francisca Van Dunem.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u78	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for the questions you have put to me and I would start with the last one, which has to do with corruption, the fight against corruption, the desire to fight corruption. First of all, I would like to say that, from a historical point of view, the major reforms that have been made, with regard to the fight against corruption, have been made by the party supporting the Government. But I also wanted to say VV. For example, I have already had an opportunity to explain in the first paragraph of the proposals which the Government has in its hands and in which it is working in the fight against corruption. the Commission, two days ago, that the working group that was doing the report and basically defining a national pre-strategy to combat corruption, because that is what GRECO complains and that is what we need, will deliver its results in principle at the end of this month. To be sure, I have here the document, which is a preliminary document in which the working group is working. What's the logic? Logic obviously has two main lines, the first of which is that we should not concentrate exclusively on repression, because with repression we did not get there. We need, at prevention level, to create an environment that is responsive to corruption. Therefore, there is a dimension of prevention that is important, that goes through education, that is, through education, which is also probably through higher education, that passes through Public Administration, but also through great cooperation with the private, because it is necessary to bring the private to this fight. It is necessary to have the private people create within themselves — and obviously, when I talk about private people, I am talking about private companies — models of compliance that prevent corrupt practices within their organizations. That is the meaning of the work that has been done internationally with regard to the fight against corruption. Obviously, repression and criminal law appear as ultimatum. At the criminal level and in the criminal proceedings, what we have identified and which I have already mentioned here have been difficulties, from the outset, associated with the reading of the criminal procedure rules relating to the connection of proceedings, which then give rise to situations in which there are, in fact, very large processes that become ingestible. This is a matter which is being dealt with in this document and which will appear in the Annex. In other words, the result of the work being done by the working group will be concrete legislative proposals to be assessed by both the Government and Parliament. This will be an intervention at this level. A second level has to do with the breakdown of the corruptive pacts and it is there that one can speak of a minimal intervention which can be read in the perspective of premium law. Another intervention—I think these are the essentials, although there are more than three or four—is linked to the rigour of judgment. We have a problem of laxity in research, therefore, of clarifying the facts, so we are working precisely on the prospect of the collapse of the peace pacts that can favour research. With regard to the trial, we believe that, in particular in those cases where the evidence is essentially documentary, it should not be reproduced everything from the beginning and that it is possible to create a mechanism which, by taking advantage of the whole confession institute and without reservations, allows to establish agreements on the sentence. These are the main lines of work that are being done.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u79	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u80	On the second line, we have the question of the means. The question of the media is a historic issue, Mrs Deputies. I've been on the side of the media, and I also know that, apart from the media, there's the organization. Member of Parliament, it may be worth noting that the Government has been revising, last year, both the legal police and the statutes of its professionals. It should also be remembered that last year the Government created conditions for opening a competition for the integration of 120 agents, followed by 46 and that a competition for the integration of more than 100 is now open. Madam Member, the sky is certainly the limit in this matter of 'approach or not'. So what we're doing is creating conditions for the judicial police to function internally. that the government cannot properly be held responsible for failing to create the means. When we talk about means, we need to know what means we are talking about, what we talk about when we refer to means, what we want, after all.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u81	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u82	Mrs Deputy, we have created a unit in the Judicial Police which is dedicated exclusively to working in computer matters, we have improved the Financial and Accounting Expertise Unit, not only from a technical point of view, but also from a human point of view. There are substantial reinforcements in the two fundamental units that work in the area of corruption. Basically, the effects that are now being channeled are being oriented to these two units. As regards issues related to access to law, the Government obviously has the greatest understanding of the difficulties that exist today associated with two factors. On the one hand, an exponential increase in the number of lawyers. Portugal has a ratio of lawyers per 100 000 / inhabitants brutal, far superior to those of its European counterparts—we have 23 000 lawyers registered—and also a phenomenon of proletarisation of counsel that effectively requires a thought in this regard. It is necessary to define and it must be understood that we will have ways of dealing with those lawyers who are no longer free professionals today but are workers on behalf of others, working in relation to subordination. And this, indeed, is a question that the Government is available to consider and address, i.e., to resolve definitely the situations that have to do with legal subordination.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u83	Don't forget!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u84	On the other hand, the questions related to the safety of lawyers and how lawyers today have access, let us say, to the social benefits, which resulted from a historical process in which a pension box was created — basically, it is a pension box — which, in recent years, also by intervention by this government, in conjunction with the CPAS Directorate, created some social responses, but which does not effectively reach the needs of those who do not have the possibility to enjoy an autonomous social security system. I said once again, and I repeat: I think there is a great discussion that has to be held between the lawyers to understand ourselves, because there is clearly a gap between those who believe that the CPAS should be maintained and the CPAS regime and those who understand that it should simply be migrated to social security. It is therefore necessary to discuss and discuss — I know that the debates have already begun — and to deepen this issue. The government has an idea, but I would like it to be worked and deepened by the professionals so that the government can then participate. As regards the other issues that relate most to the remuneration dimension, the Government has approved, and will be for publication, the portfolio relating to the updating of lawyers' fees and has in the legislative process, as I have already mentioned, the diploma on access to law, which has a very close structure to what corresponds to the diploma that has already been assessed in this Parliament. Parliament will, of course, assess whether or not it is interested in this model. With regard to the statutes, I would like to say the following: this Government has revised the Statutes of the Judicial Judges and the Public Ministry, contrary to the previous Government which has failed to do so ; this Government has reviewed the Statutes of the Judicial Police ; this Government has made an intervention in the statutes of the Prison Guard Corps and has also intervened with regard to the careers of the registries. As regards the statutes, what the Government has at this time will refer to the justice officers, who are fully justified in claiming. There is indeed a budgetary standard which provides that the statutes of the judicial officers are ready by the end of July. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I have to tell you that you won't be. And they won't be for a very simple reason: we had two and a half months of stopping and one meeting. It was not possible to establish the negotiation and would even say that on the part of the Government there was some difficulty in dealing with these cases, since there was a great concentration in the cases associated with COVID-19. Therefore, in July these statutes will not be ready. The compromise I make is that by the end of the year I would seek to bring here the status of the judicial officers. Let me now tell you two questions. I was asked by Mr Peixoto what I would leave as a mark. There's a negative mark that I won't let go, which is the crash of Citius. I won't! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u85	You don't know! You don't know!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u86	Allow me also to tell you that during the four years I have been in office, I have brought civil justice, criminal justice, social justice to the lowest levels of expectations and to the lowest times. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests from PSD MP Carlos Peixoto.]] Of course, it will attribute this, surely, to the past. I mean, everything that happened in my term is from the past, isn't it? Oh, my God! Mr President, please do not look down on modernization in justice.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u87	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u88	Modernization frees us from many suffocating tasks. I said this in principle and I continue to hold that view. I don't think we need much more legislation. That's enough!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u89	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u90	The actors of the justice system are tired and are no longer able to assimilate law. What we need is to improve the methods and improve the methods effectively goes through it. I'm not here to say this because it's a fashion, but because it actually happens around. We must be able to reorganize, in the field, things: reorganize the effectives, create the means... Notice that no company was already working as the courts were working at the time they took office in 2015. It does not mean that the State must always be on the side of companies, but the courts must seek to follow up on what is happening in the 21st century. And that's what I've done. That's what I've always tried to do. More: I have brought to this Parliament a reform of the administrative jurisdiction, which has been approved, as you know.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u91	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u92	What is at issue — Mr President, it is appropriate to read the document well — a small intervention in SITAF ( Information System of Administrative and Tax Tribunals ). That's what's there. Because the administrative reform is being done, specializations will come into force in September and, therefore, Mr, in this matter, unfortunately, he misreads what is in the PEES ( Economic and Social Stabilization Programme ). Finally, I would also like to tell you that there is another reform which I leave and which gives me great pleasure: it is the reform of the legal regime of the major one. In an aging country with so many dementias, I have been able to bring to this Parliament a law that has contributed to improve the situation of people with reduced capacity, Mr. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u93	The law has very serious problems!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u94	The Bureau recorded the registration of five others. Members to make requests for clarification. Mrs Sandra Cunha, from the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u95	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the lack of human resources is the norm in justice, but there is an area that we are particularly concerned about. I speak of the lack of human resources in the Public Prosecutor's Office, particularly judges, which prevents adequate response in priority criminal investigation segments such as domestic violence. In several districts, the team dealing with this crime consists of a single judge. Last month, the Left Block addressed a question to Mrs. Minister and in reply to Mrs. Minister reports that there is a ratio of 217 cases for each judge, more or less. We know that there are judges who have many more processes in hand, but even if they were 217 it is clear that it is impossible to work efficiently in these conditions. It is up to the Ministry of Justice to set the number of vacancies in standard training courses, but it is also necessary to see the need to open special courses covering, in fact, the last three competitions and where a considerable human resources grant can be found. The Minister is justified by the pandemic and argues that the number of domestic violence investigations between March and May of this year is reduced, but she disregards the fact that the worst is now in the post-definition phase and, more seriously than that, does not present any solution to the problem. Madam Minister, one thing is absolutely right: it is for the government to solve this problem. So I ask you: what will you do to ensure, in the short term, the human resources needed for the Public Prosecutor's Office to work and respond to the victims of these crimes? [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice President Editi Estrela.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u96	I have the floor, to ask for clarification, Mr José Luís Ferreira, of the Parliamentary Group of the Greens.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u97	Madam President, Minister for Justice, said the Minister that the Government worked in the Statute of the Magistrates, in the Statutes of the Judicial Police, in the Statutes of the Prison Guard, and then said that the judicial officials are right because the Government will not meet the deadline laid down in Law No 2 / 2020, which is the State Budget Act for 2020, which establishes the deadline for that statute, which should be published until 31 July and also be the product of several negotiations with the representative entities of the judicial officials. We therefore learned that it is not possible to conclude the statute until that date, until it certainly requires a lot of negotiation, but that it will be ready by the end of the year—that is the commitment of the Minister. But, Madam Minister, the issue I had recently put was not just about the issue of the status, but also about two more matters: on the one hand, the integration of the procedural recovery supplement and, on the other hand, the creation of a differential retirement scheme. If we consider that, in relation to the status, this requires a lot of negotiation with the workers and, therefore, for us, it is not surprising that until 31 July it is not completed and much less published, since the other two issues, especially the integration of the procedural recovery supplement, do not seem to me to need major negotiations, therefore, are simpler to resolve. What I am asking is whether, in these two matters — I am talking about the integration of the procedural recovery supplement and also the creation of a differential retirement scheme — the government will meet the deadline set by the law, i.e. whether it is published until 31 July and, now, what meetings have been with the unions in order to negotiate, since these things are always the result of negotiations, which we hope, in the face of the pressure of time, are not done in a hurry, because otherwise they are not serious. Thus, Mrs Minister, she asked whether, in fact, until 31 July, we will have these two elements in the law and whether there have been, or if they are, meetings with the representative bodies of the workers in this case of the judicial officers. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u98	You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, of the Parliamentary Group of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u99	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister, in this explanation we would like to reinforce that we cannot forget the constitutional premise which determines that it is up to the courts, as organs of sovereignty, to ensure the protection of the rights and interests legally protected by citizens, to suppress the violation of democratic legality, to resolve conflicts of public and private interests, and a State calling upon it to pursue justice cannot deprive citizens and businesses, whatever their right to have access to it. Some of the problems in the area of justice have been identified for a long time: morbidity, the cost of access to processes and access to justice itself, the lack of appreciation of professionals, the need for dematerialization and electronic platforms and the legislative optimization itself, which we have now heard of and with which, of course, we agree. In addition to these difficulties, there is one aspect that we cannot but underline and which is essential for more rapid and effective justice, which is, of course, investment, whose lack has been patented over the years, and a serious bet on combating corruption. With regard to the lack of investment, we must not fail to stress the need for the appreciation of professionals, either by strengthening them or by the ability to access the means to work, either with regard to the so-called "Journal Pact" in the fight against corruption. In fact, there has not yet been a reinforcement of the teams, particularly at the level of the Central Department of Research and Criminal Action, in order to effectively combat what causes an annual damage to the country which amounts to EUR 18 billion, which, when we fight, could be used, for example, to capitalise on the investments that are necessary. Mr Minister, despite the clarifications you have already had to give here, in addition to those already given at the recent committee hearing, we have heard of the principles — and we all seem to tend to agree with the principles — but the measures in which they materialize themselves have been delayed. Again and again, we have heard that it is under way—it has now given us notice of the work being done to bring the report into effect—but indeed, the measures have been slow to reach, at a very critical time, even for our country. Given the lack of resources that we know we will have, perhaps, for the future, more than ever, it is important to realize what investment is going to materialise this restructuring of justice, as the lack of human resources will be filled, because, Minister, we have daily data that give us exactly knowledge of the shortcomings that exist. I give you an example: not only in the case of access to justice and courts, but in those who, in their daily lives, can be fundamental acts for people, such as access to conservatories and records, speak to us of more than 100 000 processes pending in conservatories for, for example, nationality allocation, and we have already had the opportunity to discuss this issue in committee. The Union of Registries and Notaries Workers has noted that for more than 20 years no new workers have entered these conservatories, despite the exits, for various reasons, of about 235 Conservatives and 1449 officers, having these exits broken down all conservatories and the needs have not been met. Madam Minister, another issue concerns domestic violence, a debate to which none of us can steal and a problem to which we need to respond both at the level of recommendations and at the level of the media. Today, the need to strengthen teams on the ground has been mentioned, but it brought to collation the work that has been carried out by the Retrospective Domestic Violence Analysis Team itself, which has pointed out the need for some solutions, in particular with regard to the implementation of preventive methodologies in the procedural aspects, which may indeed be an important vector in this fight. in this sense, Mrs Minister, in addition to the training, that this report points out as being necessary at a more operational level—as is the case with the security forces—it seems to us that it is still to fulfil the necessary training, in a more consolidated way, of the magistrates of the Public Ministry, despite the work that we recognize, has been done in this area. But, above all, it is also necessary to carry out a necessary review — and we would like to hear your opinion on this — of the allocation of the victim's status. In fact, we continue to have some lengths and, despite the legislative package that has recently been brought by the Government — and which we welcome and acknowledge as positive — there is still a way to improve these mechanisms. That is why, Madam Minister, we would like to hear about the goals and objectives with which you will commit yourself to this Assembly of the Republic to achieve greater reinforcement in the protection of victims. In conclusion, Madam Minister, what we would like to hear is what will happen not only in relation to the mega-processes that are under way, to the fight against corruption, that you spoke about recently and for which it is necessary to call the partners — we all agree, at all, with that — but also in relation to the effective means that will be applied, to the concrete measures that will be applied, because we do not fight corruption with only awareness or repression. This is done by means and, above all, by ensuring these mechanisms to the teams that are currently largely broken down under the conditions for their work.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u100	Mrs Deputy, you have clearly exceeded the time limit, but as you are discounting at the time of your parliamentary group, the Bureau did not interrupt it. To request clarification, Mr José Soeiro, of the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u101	Mr President, Minister, the precariousness of work in justice has many dimensions. They are, for example, trainees who have been in the professional internship programs of the central administration to meet permanent needs and who have only partially been integrated by PREVPAP ( Extraordinary Regulatory Programme of the Pre-Care Links in the Public Administration ) and whose experience has to be recognized. They are, for example, the precarious health professionals who work in prisons — nurses, psychiatrists, general clinic doctors, psychologists, dentists, medical action assistants, pharmacists — who were hired through outsourcing that, in good time, ended, but are maintained with green receipts, which protect them. And they are, of course, lawyers and applicants, many of them precarious, and who, even if they have lost their income, have been excluded from all the support measures created so far by the government, even those which have been created for independent workers and which have not required workers any contribution to the system, which is even more incomprehensible. We need, Madam Minister, to internalize the deficiencies in public services, with contracts, and we need to include lawyers in social support, as the Block has already proposed and has already been approved in general in this Parliament. I ask you, Madam Minister, whether it is in this Supplementary Budget that the Government will join this demand for social justice for the workers of justice. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u102	You have the floor, too, to ask for clarification, Mr. André Ventura, of the Arrival.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u103	Mr President, Mrs Minister, I ask you, essentially, by the professionals of justice. We have notaries with 20 years of service who earn the same as those who enter today, and this is regrettable. We have an increasingly decharacterized judicial police and with less and less means. As was recalled today, in fact, the Socialist Party was the only one who voted against strengthening the judiciary. I ask you about the prison guards. I've been to the Azores recently. Prison guards have been fighting for years for the review of careers and for the insularity allowance.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u104	PCP proposal!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u105	To what extent are we here? Finally, Madam Minister, to draw the conclusions of the Anti-Corruption Working Group, we are not worth much. As you know, I'm Benfica. Without wanting to compare—and don't take me to harm the comparison that I'm going to make now—I remember once, in a debate, Dr. Vale and Azevedo... [[Protests by PS Member José Magalhães.]] ... have shown the statement of IRS (tax on income of natural persons) and have said: "It is here. Do not worry about anything else». And everyone was quiet. Today, we know we shouldn't have stayed quiet. I would like to know, then, what are these conclusions of the anti-corruption working group. Don't hurt me, it's no comparison between you and Dr. Vale and Azevedo,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u106	Yeah, yeah!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u107	... it's just in order to tell us that showing us a document is not worth anything at all.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u108	To reply, I have the floor of the Minister of Justice, whom I welcome, as well as the other members of the Government.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u109	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for the questions that have been raised to me. I shall begin with the questions asked by Mrs Sandra Cunha to tell her that, in matters of domestic violence, the competence of the area of justice is shared. But I'd like to leave you two clues. The first is that we have worked with the other government areas in creating conditions that will allow the victims of domestic violence to be better accommodated at the level of the courts. As you know, we created in the DIAP ( Department of Investigation and Criminal Action) with a higher incidence of domestic violence crimes support offices, multidisciplinary, which make the reception and follow-up of victims, in conjunction with various non-governmental organizations. With regard to the question which you have put to me on the number of cases, Mrs Deputies, let me disagree. The reasonable average of processes that a magistrate can manage—until, it is said, the magistrate does not practice all acts, in principle delegate many acts to the police— if he works only in the crime, he is between 800 and 1000. We're talking here about an average of 200 processes, so it's a fairly below the general average. I can admit that there are regions where, if any, there are difficulties with the number of judges, but, Mrs Deputies, the numerical reference I have for myself is not worrying. I understand what he tells me when he says that the Public Prosecutor's Office today has a problem with the deficit of effectives. I would like to tell you, in this regard, that in recent years we have opened courses for the Public Prosecutor's Office with maximum capacity. in these four years, we have brought 320 people into the Public Prosecutor's Office. He'll say: « It is, but that is not enough to cover the number of people coming out». The suggestion which makes me, in a special course, is not exactly from the point of view of the principles and experience I have with the results of special courses, a good solution. Special courses eventually introduce people who have no other alternative into the system. When you take a special course, you will be looking for x people, regardless of the conditions, i.e., the criterion of evaluation for entry into the judiciary eventually becomes very small. And today's experience with special courses is that things actually went wrong. Many of the people who have entered special courses have problems and therefore I do not think that the judiciary of the Public Prosecutor's Office only wins because of having people. I think you need to have quality people to perform their duties. On the question of supplements, put by Mr José Luís Ferreira, we had a meeting during this time of pandemic with the two trade union structures concerning contingency plans. And the two trade union structures are divided: one understands that these issues, whether the integration of the procedural recovery supplement or the retirement scheme, should be dealt with in the framework of discussion of the status; the other understands that we could now deal with only those issues, remove them and deal with them separately. But the union which, I think, is a majority has a position contrary to that. As for the issue of human resources in the IRN, I would say that today the difference between 2015 and 2019 is 130 effective is nothing more than that. The numbers are here and they speak for you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u110	How many? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u111	It's 130, Mr. Deputies. With regard to the question of the victims of crime, which I think was put by Mrs Sandra Cunha, by reading that the Government is making the victims of crime, if it is referring to domestic violence, they are fully covered by the provisions relating to the Victim Statute. More: today, all the courts deliver to the victims a document listing their rights. As regards the participation of victims, and above all as regards victims of domestic violence, as I said, we have already created in the main DIAPs, in conjunction with the PGR ( Attorney-General's Office of the Republic), multidisciplinary structures that assure them of this support. As regards the question of mega-processes, I have already addressed it here and have explained what I wanted to do. Mr Soeiro, as regards the deficiencies in justice, I would like to tell you that, from among the governmental areas, we will eventually be the least problem with the integration of the precarious ones. The questions you're talking about are new. Indeed, with regard to prisoners, when we arrived at the government, there was a consistent practice in hiring temporary workers. This led to bad results and, because it was, we increased the picture in various areas, particularly in nursing and medicine areas. What we are now doing is direct recruitment for services. I have no indication that there are people hired on the green receipt. We obviously have people with contracts in public office, but I do not really have any indication that there are people hired under green receipt.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u112	In advance!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u113	On the terms of the poison, no. We're not hiring in the Avenger regime. All contracts we have made — and are duly authorized — are contracts of employment in public service. Mr Ventura raised the issue of prison guards and insularity allowance.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u114	PCP proposal!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u115	Proposal from the CFP. Hello!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u116	Two parties, the same fight!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u117	He's keeping some stuff!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u118	Understand-CL will be about that. [[Mr José Manuel Pureza's laughs.]] in this regard, the only thing I can say is that the government, although understanding the justice underlying the issue of insularity allowance for prison guards working either in the Azores or in Madeira needs to make a little more stopped weight before giving an answer to that question. But we're working on it.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u119	Then there will be news! Is that what you're talking about?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u120	I think I have answered the questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u121	Let's move on to the interventions. To that end, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u122	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: When looking for those responsible for the state to which our justice has come, we must also have as principle « innocent until proof contrary». But is there not enough evidence already to say that all those who have ruled and that all those who have supported who have ruled are not at least innocent? Since the inability to respond to the outbreak of insolvency after the 2008 crisis, to the collapse of Citius in 2014, to the fact that all these governments have preferred to move into the architecture of the judicial map rather than invest in the qualification of operators, buildings, equipment and systems essential to justice, and to the recent and worrying indications of attempts to condition the Attorney-General's Office — still today, no one knows exactly what happened, because the PS and other parties have made the hearing that the Liberal Initiative wanted to do to Mr. Procurator-General — what further evidence is needed? Without a clear assumption of responsibilities, justice will be another sector to contribute to the dubious title « Portugal : Country champion of waiting lists ». We have waiting lists on health and the government does not want to use privates to solve them; we have waiting lists on education, students who now need to recover the deferred learning during the pandemic, and the government does not have a vision of plan; we have waiting lists on social security, pensioners who are waiting for them to tell them the value of their pension and the government says they lack means, they lack people, three years after reducing the working time by 12, 5 %; and we finally have waiting lists in the justice sector, now very much aggravated by a suspension of deadlines and by legal holidays that have not been shortened, as if justice was not required any effort on the basis of the pandemic. It was already pressing and now it is urgent to draw up a plan for the recovery of waiting lists in justice, to which the EPES measures do not give an answer. You don't realize that the government is waiting for action. Do you not realize that in the coming months we will face an unprecedented wave of new insolvency? Oh, my God! A tragic peak in domestic violence? Oh, my God! Is there an outbreak of disputes in the area of employment, rents or contractual defaults? Oh, my God! A growing cybercrime cases? Oh, my God! If nothing is done, all these processes will mean the postponement, for many years, of the lives of thousands of citizens and businesses. Portugal on a waiting list, again. In May, the Liberal Initiative proposed in its Liberal Prec ( Economic and Civic Review Programme ) a set of measures that I do not have time to detail, but which should already be implemented. For the Liberal Initiative, it is very clear that all these measures should be already being taken. We fear that, unfortunately, all of them will grow to the greatest list of expectations of all: the waiting list of things that socialist governments should do and never do.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u123	Mr José Manuel Pureza, from the Left Block, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u124	Mr President, Mrs Minister for Justice and other members of the Government, Mrs and Mrs Members: In these days of distressing uncertainty about the future, assessing the justice system implies answering a question. Is the justice in Portugal prepared to respond to the social hurricane coming there? This hurricane of unemployment, insolvency, aggravated precariousness, loss of income for the poor and the middle classes, suffocating the treasury of small businesses, will, firstly, make justice an invaluable remedy for those of the lower class to defend their rights. The question is this: will you be able to do it? The answer is simple: without bold and urgent changes in the costs of justice and legal support, justice will be a barrier and not a stand for rights that will be threatened. On the other hand, the most likely intensive rise of judicial litigation in areas such as trade, executions, work, family and minors and even crime requires that a second question be answered. Do these jurisdictions have the human and technical means to accommodate this sensitive increase in demand? The answer is: no! The Left Block has sought to show in this debate that precariousness, the shortage of officials and judges and the persistent demotivation of all these professionals have greatly weakened the performance of justice. from there, we draw a conclusion: only by closing the system with the frames that have been missing so long will allow you to respond to the high-intensity stress that will affect it. I add a note: of course, the qualification of the computer media of justice is very important, but it is with people—with judges, judges, lawyers, officials and motivated people—much more than with the repetition of fashion management language borders that the system can meet the challenges. Finally, in view of the future, but also of the present, there is a component of the justice system that requires a major intervention by the political power. I mean the prison system. At the hearings of the Subcommittee on Social Integration and Prison Affairs, there has been such a clear and worrying consensus that the functioning of prisons violates, in practice, the basic rules of the Code of the Enforcement of Penalties and Privatative Measures of Freedom, from the requirement of individual cells to the imperative of separation between prisoners and convicted persons, passing through the work regime in the prison environment or the regime of family visits. Moreover: this consensus is also that, in the system of enforcement of sentences, effective social reintegration is unfortunately little more than an ideal, with professionals demotivated and swallowed by administrative routines. This is not definitely a prison system of a country that likes to be a friend of human rights. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, PSDs and CDSs bear the heavy burden of having, in successive governments, deeply degraded all sectors of the justice system. No one out there believes that the PSD that today rips clothes by the state of justice is different from the PSD that has thrown justice into chaos, but this lack of right-wing authority does not solve any problems, nor does it itself give any authority added to the government and the Socialist Party. The state of justice is truly worrying and, if courageous measures are not already taken, especially in the motivation of the professionals serving it and in the enforcement system, the justice system will add crisis to the crisis instead of being, as it should, a mechanism of resistance to the crisis.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u125	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u126	The commitment of the Left Block is with these measures that make justice a public service as dear to democracy as is the National Health Service. That's why we're gonna hit each other. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u127	Since the Bureau does not record any entries at this time, we have concluded the stage of the debate and we are going to end the closure. [[Pause.]] At the stage of the debate, for an intervention, Mr Ventura has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u128	Madam President, Minister for Justice: We could not close this debate without mentioning that Portugal has been appointed as one of the main non-compliances of the Council of Europe with regard to corruption. We are at the level of Northern Macedonia and Turkey. I confess that many Portuguese will not know where Northern Macedonia is, but they should know that it is one of the most corrupt countries in Europe and Portugal is at the same level. We cannot say that justice is good, when we are permanently under the yoke of the European institutions in the attack on our anti-corruption measures. We cannot say permanently that it is all right when we say: 'Well, we're working, we're reporting, we're going to present conclusions'. We all saw this year at the end of the trial, or rather at the end of the BPN (English Business Bank ) process, when one of its protagonists died before he was definitely convicted. Peace to your soul, but it is an unequivocal sign of justice that we do not have in Portugal. It is a justice that drags time after time, with the Portuguese outside waiting for it to be done, and that never ends in good time! The Minister says: « We are working». Parliament, to its left, says : 'We are approving'. And the Portuguese continue to have the same unbelievable look in relation to what happens in our justice. As if not better, we have an ex-primary minister jogging in Ericeira, while he is accused of corruption processes for having injured the state and which apparently still says and does not say about our institutions. We couldn't have gotten any worse! And there comes a minister to this Parliament saying: 'We are working'. Mother of heaven! Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u129	Mr Pedro Delgado Alves of the PS Parliamentary Group was appointed to request clarification. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u130	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, starting with the geographical note, it is interesting to note that Mr Peixoto quotes precisely the same countries as Mr Peixoto mentioned earlier, showing a remarkable geographical and argumentative affinity, if we look at the content of the report. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u131	Those are the ones in the report!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u132	That is precisely what this has to do with it. The honourable Member wants to discuss the GRECO report, but it was important for him to read and understand the contents of the report. It was also important that I read not only this year's report, the conclusions that are already preliminaryly known, but also that of 2019, 2018 and 2017. I know that it does a lot of work to do the whole housework and realize the evolution over the years, but it happens from 2017 to 2018 and from 2018 to 2019, you will see that Portugal rises in all the indicators concerning work both in relation to parliamentarians and in relation to prosecutors. With regard to judges, it did not rise from 2018 to 2019. However, if you pay a little more attention, you would find that the date on which GRECO's evaluations were completed was June 2019, at which time the provisions adopted in this Parliament were not yet in force,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u133	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u134	... in the Committee on Transparency, which approved all the GRECO recommendations, which has already allowed Portugal to remain yellow, therefore in implementation, in relation to the measures concerning parliamentarians, compared to the previous report, and that the next year's report will reflect the full compliance by this Parliament, with the exception of a matter, which is that of the lobby, whose projects have already entered and will soon be scheduled. [[Protests from PSD MP Carlos Peixoto.]] And if he continued to read the report, he also found that, in relation to prosecutors and judges, the status of judges of the Public Prosecutor's Office and the status of judicial magistrates came into force later. Therefore, the GRECO recommendations, with the exception of the one that would require a constitutional review, are also implemented. And in the report on the current year 2020, better results will be reflected than those of Germany, if you read carefully the data which the Group of States against Corruption has been monitoring over the years. [[The PSD Member Carlos Peixoto's laughs.]] Mr Peixoto laughed, but if he remembered what he voted in favour of this House last year, I would say that it is unfortunate that the work of all the parliamentary groups in which the PSD — and well — is not already reflected! — participated and allowed Portugal to continue to respond to GRECO's recommendations.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u135	They said that!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u136	Therefore, in order to make a parliamentary intervention on an important issue, it takes more than reading the headline. And I didn't even read the report! I do not even ask to read the footnotes, but at least the report, Mr President! [[Congratulations from the PS and Mr José Manuel Pureza.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u137	Mr Ventura has the floor to reply very briefly.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u138	Madam President, I was hoping that the PS would give me some of the long time it's still available, but since that didn't happen, I'm going to reply telegraphly. Mr Pedro Delgado Alves, of what the PS says he will do in the following years we are already tired. What we have is this report, which says that Portugal is among the worst in Europe in terms of corruption. But since you like work at home, I'm going to give you one to do tonight. Do you know what it is? It is to read the Report of Transparency International, dated 23 January this year. It's not two years or three years ago. You know what he says? I'll read, so that before you lie down, you can...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u139	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u140	I shall now conclude, Madam President. Let me just say this, or I can't answer!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u141	Mr. Deputies, if you had managed your time well, you could.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u142	Mr President, when you lie down today, read this report, which reads as follows: « Portugal worsened in 2019. It's now in 30. the place... » — in 30. the place — «... as regards the fight against corruption ». Mr. Member, I'm not saying that,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u143	Thank you very much, Mr President. He's already answered.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u144	Mr. Member, who said so was your former Prime Minister, jogging, Ericeira.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u145	Mrs. Members, the Bureau no longer registers to request clarifications or interventions, so it will end the debate phase of this request to the Government and we will proceed to the closing phase. I ask the parliamentary groups who still have time to intervene in the debate if they do not intend to sign up. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in the debate period, so the entries to be made will be for interventions and subsequent requests for clarification to the speakers who speak. These are the rules. Question : Who wants to sign up for an intervention? [[Pause.]] Mrs Mónica Quintela of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u146	Mr President, Mrs Minister for Justice and other members of the Government, Mrs and Mrs Members: First of all, I would like to mention a very important issue. We are here first to talk about our internal policy before we move on to the progress that we will make in the Portuguese presidency. Those who said that the PSD did not make any proposals, I remember, because they must be forgotten, our justice reform programme, which was presented not only to the government as to all parliamentary groups. [[PSD applause.]] That being the case, there are dangerous times in justice. At the beginning of this year, they gave the press two news stories that cleared the foundations of our democratic rule of law. I am referring to the directive issued by the Attorney-General of the Republic and to the manipulation of the distribution of proceedings in the Lisbon Report. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u147	It is said that the directive was, however, suspended, pending a clear opinion from the same Advisory Council that was consulted to do so. But the purpose of this directive is that the instructions and orders given by the hierarchical superiors in the criminal processes are hidden in any hidden safe or closet, away from the view of the other procedural actors. It is not the guidelines or instructions that concern us, because the Public Prosecutor's Office is a hierarchical judiciary, but rather the fact that they do not want these instructions to be recorded in the proceedings. What we are concerned about is the lack of control over the legality of the orders given and about who gives them. [[PSD applause.]] This is unacceptable, because the autonomy of the Public Prosecutor's Office is crucial to the maintenance of the democratic rule of law! I ask the Minister: does she agree with the content of that directive? The Public Prosecutor's Office must be equipped with the technical and human resources necessary for criminal investigation and no interference with its autonomy during the investigation is tolerated, and they must be severely punished when they occur. See what happened to a prosecutor for, according to the sentencing rulings, attempting to condition the investigation to José Socrates, on the date of Prime Minister, in the Freeport case.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u148	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u149	The Superior Council of the Public Prosecutor's Office sentenced him to 30 days'suspension, which was subsequently confirmed by the Supreme Administrative Court. The fact is that Socrates was not accused in the Freeport case and also that this attorney, today counsel judge in the Supreme Court of Justice, despite being duly convicted, was now appointed by the Minister of Justice as his deputy. Mr. Minister, this appointment causes perplexity and much apprehension. It is someone who directly interfered so that politicians would not be investigated. The interference in research is intolerable and total promiscuity between the executive and the judiciary is intolerable, especially with the contours that this case has. At the end of this appointment, Mr.Judge will quietly return to the Supreme Court and decide cases at the highest court level. Question : What guarantees of impartiality and exemption do we have? How will you decide on processes in which someone from the Socialist Party is a party? Where is the principle of separation of powers? It is also said that the Minister has been a prodigy in the appointment of judges under her wing. These are places of political confidence, and this concerns us very much. We are concerned that the policy of the Ministry of Justice is done by judges and judges and we are concerned that when they return to the courts they have lost independence from political power.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u150	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u151	Without a free and independent judiciary there is no state of democratic law! On the other hand, the Public Prosecutor's Office must be equipped with the technical and human resources necessary for criminal investigation, but we see that the Public Prosecutor's Office and the criminal police agencies lack almost everything. Missing prosecutors, lack judicial police inspectors, lack experts, lack resources and technology and lack financial and computer expertise without which there is no fight against corruption. We do not like to see this investment in criminal investigation, much less when the government is alarming the fight against corruption, but nothing is done to provide the necessary criminal investigation of the necessary weapons. We recorded the news yesterday, surgically, published on the anti-corruption package, that no novelty has led to not being the announcement of an unconstitutional measure, that of the creation of specialized courts to judge certain types of crime, recreating the idea of the PIDE plenary courts ( International Police and State Defense). [[PSD applause.]] It's PSD stamp to make a responsible opposition and that's what we've done. That is why we tell you, Mrs Minister, that we are very concerned that, at the end of these years, all the processes where figures are being investigated and accused that were on Portugal's motto in primary areas are like processions: they are still going on the dock. Even yesterday, it was reported that the prosecution of the PPP process (public-private partnerships) by road would be deduced by the end of the year. We're in June, six months left, it's too long. We do not know whether those members of the government of José Socrates are guilty or not, but we know that it is not fair or admissible that those people have been cooked in a bathroom for more than nine years, with the press releases of the Attorney General's Office of the Republic, without prosecution or filing. Nor is it fair that if they are guilty they have not yet brought an account to justice. The Portuguese have already lost hope of seeing these finished processes and no longer believe in justice. Madam Minister, what do you propose to amend this modus operandi to process investigations with mega-investigations, which give rise to mega-processes and which result in mega-inegations of justice? What is proposed to do to change the rules of connection of the proceedings? Do you think that mega-investigations can and should be done with separation of proceedings? Another strong beat in the credibility of justice was the public knowledge of manipulation in the distributions of the Lisbon Report processes. In fact, it is surprising that only now these facts have come to light, because there has been a long time when procedural actors say that distributions allow the judges to be manipulated and chosen. It should be noted that it is the Public Prosecutor's Office itself that, in certain cases, it is necessary to be present in the distribution. It is the Ministry of Justice, through IGFEJ, that has an obligation to ensure reliability and security in the distribution of proceedings. The parties cannot control and verify the data that are entered into the system, so they cannot measure its correction. The mere suspicion of the manipulation of proceedings with the possibility of the choice of judges a la carte affects the state of democratic law, destroys justice and destroys the confidence of citizens in the courts. [[PSD applause.]] It is the vilest corruption that exists, because behind the choice of a judge is the merchant of justice, there is the sale of sentences. It's justice hitting the bottom. I therefore ask — and with this I conclude: in addition to the cases provided for in the law of direct award of proceedings to judges and which do not offer any doubts, how does the Minister intend to solve the problem of distribution in all courts? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u152	Mrs Cláudia Santos of the PS Parliamentary Group was appointed to request clarification. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u153	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mr State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members, after hearing Mr Peixoto, in his initial speech, to shoot the judicial magistrates, referring to the establishment of a « republic of judges », we had here Mrs Mónica Quintela shooting herself at the judiciary of the Public Prosecutor's Office,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u154	Public Prosecutor's Office? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u155	... which leads me to question whether the omission of lawyers is intentional or whether the aim is to attack all the operators of the judicial system, with the exception of the lawyers. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But I would like to ask you very specific questions about each of these points. As regards the autonomy of the Public Prosecutor, who naturally came here to question when he referred to the delay in the directive relating to this matter, I would like to ask him whether he agrees with the understanding expressed since 1987 in the Code of Criminal Procedure - politically today it is necessary to have some courage to take it! — that the judiciary of the Public Prosecutor's Office is autonomous at the external level but is subordinated at the internal level. If that is the understanding that the PSD wants to express in this debate, speaking clearly on this point, perhaps we have the parliamentary majority that we need to amend the Code of Criminal Procedure, which appears necessary after the revision of the Statute of the Public Prosecutor. If that is the understanding that the PSD wants to leave registered here, then for the benefit of the judicial system, which is what matters, it seems that we will come to an understanding of the model of Public Prosecutor's Office that we should have.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u156	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u157	With regard to the judiciary, it is the third or fourth time in this debate that they want to return to Mr Lopes da Mota. This, after last week in a debate that had nothing to do with the matter, the PSD Member André Neves said in this plenary, referring to Mr Lopes da Mota, a slander, which I quote: «a prosecutor punished in a process of corruption». Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, corruption is a crime and Mr. Counsellor has never been, at least, constituted by corruption in any case.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u158	Do you want to speak? Let's talk!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u159	Maybe this is a good time to say if you want to charge Mr. Counsellor with the crime of corruption... [[Protests by PSD MP Monica Quintela.]] ...or if, on the contrary, they want to deal with the matter in some serious way. [[P.S.'s applause.]] With regard to corruption, it was important to say that, in this matter, the political party that brought out proposals of clearly unconstitutional substance was the PSD, when he twice presented draft laws on illicit enrichment that were declared unconstitutional, unanimously, in the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u160	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u161	I would also like to remind you that the major diplomas we have available to combat corruption have all been approved by the Socialist Party's legislative initiatives. I am referring to the legal regime of the actions covered, the extended confiscation, the extension of the limitation period of the criminal procedure for 10 years, the neo-criminalisation of the benefit received, and so on.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u162	That's why we're at Macedonia level!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u163	Therefore, in the matter of prevention and repression of corruption, we are quite aware of it.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u164	That's what you notice, by the way! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u165	Finally, I would like to leave a final question on the distribution of cases, which is also an issue to which the PSD is insistently returning, continuing to launch a widespread suspicion of justice in Portugal, after we have heard widely the President of the Supreme Council of the Magistracy at hearing in 1. the Commission. [[Protests by PSD MP Monica Quintela.]] I would like to ask you very directly, Mrs Deputies — in fact, I have read what you have published about this — if the PSD really defends the return to manual distribution. Do you want distribution of processes with balls?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u166	But who defended that?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u167	To defend this is to say that, when there is a failure in the energy system, we must once again be lit with candles. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u168	In reply, Mrs Monica Quintela has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u169	Thank you very much for the questions you put to me, Mrs Cláudia Santos. It's with a huge taste that I'm responding to. On the issue of amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure in 1987, the PSD fights for a Public Ministry that is a hierarchical judiciary, with hierarchical subordination, as we all know in the stamps and molds in which it was recently approved in the statute. But the instructions cannot be hidden. You can't slap and hide your hand! We need to know who is to investigate and who defines the criminal policies so that it does not happen — the sawmill, I respond to everything else — what happened to Mr. Juiz, today Counsellor, Lopes da Mota.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u170	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u171	Indeed, Mrs Deputy, she was not convicted of or tried for corruption, for a very serious situation, which was attempted to interfere and stop an investigation into a person who was, at the time, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u172	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u173	Do you think it's normal?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u174	Do you want a more serious situation than this? [[PSD applause.]] Mrs. Member, you have been punished by your peers. And we well know that for the Supreme Council of the Public Prosecutor's Office there is a great need. And not only was he punished by his peers in 30 days of suspension as this conviction was subsequently confirmed by the Supreme Administrative Court. The rehabilitation that has already been mentioned was not in accordance with its professional order, it was in accordance with the Public Procurement Code, in order to be able to apply thereafter for the invitation to the Supreme Court to the Supreme Court of Justice to a judge. It was no suitability! I can also tell you that much social reintegration is missing in Portugal, but I do not think that the Ministry of Justice is the seat itself to do so because there are certain places and places that are like Caesar's wife — when I speak of Caesar, I mean the emperor and not the leader of the Socialist Party :... [[PSD and CH laughter.]] ...it must be -it must be -and it must look -it is! [[PSD applause.]] Regarding the judiciary, the PSD fights for a strong and independent judiciary and, in the Public Prosecutor's Office, for a strong and autonomous judiciary, because only in this way can the serious cancer that is corruption be removed from society. As for the distribution of proceedings, we are fighting, Mrs Deputy, for this to be done with transparency and cleaning. It is not worth saying that it does not happen, because we had the President of the Lisbon Court and his successor to manipulate and assign proceedings. For what? It was certainly not to be determined, it was to be decided in a certain sense, and that is the most vile thing that can exist.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u175	I would ask you to conclude, Mrs Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u176	I will finish, Madam President. Regarding the issue of illicit enrichment, it has tried to make moralization, and very well...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u177	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u178	Yes, Madam President. In conclusion, it was not the PS that presented all the proposals concerning corruption. I recall that with regard to the extended loss of goods, it was the transposition of a directive. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u179	Mr Telmo Correia, from the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u180	Madam President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members : I would just like to record, on behalf of the CDS, that this debate is rich in inventory, i.e. in the number of themes, problems and issues affecting justice, but unfortunately it is poor in the solutions presented for these same themes. As far as corruption is concerned, it is clear — and we have already said it and it is not worth repeating — that these types of appointments are a mistake that despises the government itself and its position. I am obviously referring to the appointment of Judge Lopes da Mota. As regards corruption, I would also like to say to you, Mrs Minister, that the role shown here — I have not yet had a chance to know in detail — is short for what is expected in this area. There is also another issue. When we talk about justice, we have discussed a lot — this discussion has been used here — the so-called'media justice', i.e. by taking away the crimes, everything on television, such as cases of corruption, the mega-processes that never have a solution, out there. But it is also important not to forget — I would say that sometimes it is even more important — and we look at the justice that affects the common citizens, which affects companies, which takes years and years to solve, paraeconomic justice, civil processes. All this justice is very important, and there the reformist will is, or was, or would — if it existed — absolutely fundamental. We have already presented a number of ideas, with which one can agree or not. What are these going on? They go through more arbitration, by strengthening arbitration in many cases, through, of course, arbitrary solutions in administrative justice and, above all, fiscal justice, through advice to ministers, through simplification and the possibility of using more written statements—I do not say as a basic model—to make the process faster, faster and more efficient. They go through many solutions. You may agree with these ideas or not, but Parliament must discuss them, because justice reform is done here and not with an advertisement or anything else.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u181	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u182	The reform of justice will be either here or not, and from this point of view, this debate, between defendants and defendants, was, in my opinion, poor. Even to finish, it doesn't stop being curious that some more left-wing parties talk a lot now...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u183	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u184	I'm really finishing up, Madam President. I was saying that it is no longer curious that some parties on the left speak much now—it is the talk of the custom—of what happened two legislatures, but they forget that an entire legislature has passed and part of this legislation, that is, that at least five years have passed, in which you have not reformed anything, but in which they have always been subservient supporters of whom you have governed the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u185	Mr. Deputies, you must conclude!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u186	Even in conclusion, Madam President, I would like to say to the Minister that she is an acquaintance and a manager of the system, but did not gain the status of a reformer, and justice needs to be reformed in Portugal. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u187	Mr Jorge Lacão of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u188	Mr President, Mrs Minister for Justice and Mrs. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We live a time of questioning the sense of individual and collective responsibility, either by the most pressing imperatives of dealing with the pandemic and its deadly effects, or by the increasing complexity of the problems facing society. This is also the case in the field of justice, with the particularity of the justice system being a whole of interconnections, operating several of its links on the basis of principles of autonomy and inseparable independence from the separation of powers of the democratic State. Moreover, the requests to the Minister we have heard here this afternoon show that the PSD has not yet been able to properly understand this same separation of powers. In the overall performance of the justice system, on the one hand, the Ministry and its departments are involved, but on the other hand, in their own spheres, fundamental bodies are also involved, such as the Supreme Council of the Magistracy, the Attorney General of the Republic, the Centre for Judicial Studies or the professional orders of the sector and, of course, this very Assembly of the Republic, whose legislative function is paramount in the conformity of democratic legality and the conditions of realization of the legitimate rights and interests of citizens.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u189	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u190	The good performance of justice implies, after all, the cooperative mobilization of all its agents in the realization of the contract of trust that justifies life in peace, in an open and pluralist society. However, we do not ignore the fact that there are those who, directly or insidiously, at the cost of diabolical problems, do everything to encourage disruption and to compromise the conditions more than necessary institutional cooperation. Therefore, at times like this, it is our duty to correctly place the terms of a debate on justice, leaving aside temptations of uncontextualized evaluation of reality and avoiding the recurrent vices of the amalgam, which never inspire the good causes.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u191	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u192	In the absence of such risks, it is important to recognize the acquis of solutions that, in recent years, in a structured way, have contributed to a more effective response from the administration of justice: the reconfiguration of the system and the judicial map, including the administrative jurisdiction; the new methods of management of the courts; the renewed statutes of the judiciary; the judicial police; the status of prison guards; the introduction of new communication technologies, overcoming bureaucracy and facilitating procedures; the Justice + Next Programme, that is, a whole modernisation framework contributing to the reduction of expectations, the shortening of decision-making periods and the adaptation of judicial response to the requirements of specialization. Because the system, in general, is given more efficiency, it is now possible to better identify certain critical points on which it will make sense to focus our attention: the national strategy to prevent and combat corruption, without any doubt, by clarifying once again the legal conditions of the legal conditions in which it is possible to cooperate suspects and accused accused persons and accused persons, but it is now possible to better identify certain critical points in relation to which it will make sense to concentrate our attention: the national strategy to prevent and combat corruption: the national strategy to prevent and combat corruption, without any doubt, by clarifying, once again, by clarifying the legal implementation of the criminal policy guidelines of criminal policy guidelines on the responsibility of the bodies of criminal justice in some areas of criminal justice, with the unreplaceable competition of the Attorney-General's Office of the Attorney-General's Office in the process of evaluation and decision-making, without, however, removing the independence and decision-making process and decision-making, without circumventing the conditions and the necessary, the conditions and means necessary to clarify, the necessary, the legal clarification, and legal clarification, the reconciliation of the reconciliation of the reconciliation of reconciliation of the essential principles of the principle of the constitutional principles of the constitutional principles of the constitutional principles of the constitutional principles of the constitutional principles of the achievement of the achievement of transparency of the achievement of the independence of the transparency of the independence of the transparency of the transparency of the independence of the independence of the transparency of the transparency of the independence of the transparency of the transparency and the transparency of the transparency of the efficiency of the efficiency of the transparency and accountability and accountability and accountability and accountability of the transparency of the transparency of the transparency and accountability and accountability and accountability and accountability of the transparency of the transparency of the transparency of the transparency and accountability and accountability and accountability of the transparency of the transparency of the transparency and accountability and accountability of the transparency of the transparency of the transparency of the transparency of the transparency of the transparency of the transparency of the transparency of the transparency of the transparency and accountability and accountability and accountability of the transparency of the transparency of the transparency of the transparency and accountability and accountability and accountability and accountability of the transparency of the transparency of the transparency of the transparency of the transparency of the transparency of the transparency of the transparency of the transparency of the transparency of the transparency of the transparency of the transparency of the transparency of the transparency of the transparency of the transparency of the transparency of the transparency of the transparency of the accountability
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u193	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u194	More: the realization of the various dimensions of the national strategy for preventing and combating terrorism and cybercrime, where there is an interdisciplinary work to lack adequate balance; the clarification of the legal conditions that allow, except as a rule, the subordination of the interests of the State and other public entities to the private forum of arbitral courts, a potential factor of secondaryization of the public interest in contract relations of greater magnitude; the deepening of the powers of regulators in the protection of users and consumers with regard to the possibility of allocation of injunction powers to apply to defaulters for the purposes of redressing the damage caused by these individuals to injured individuals; the realization of electronic advertising extended to the decisions of courts of 1. the instance and voluntary jurisdiction, which can greatly contribute to a more informed knowledge of the law and its application. As part of the ongoing digital modernisation, it is important to implement the review of the legal regime applicable to the processing of data relating to the judicial system, including the guarantees of its proper processing. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, with this statement, I have drawn attention to the possibility of a parliamentary agenda of justice effectively committed to the realization of the rights of citizens and the strengthening of the rule of democratic law, preferably on the margins of mere demagogic proclamations or populist drifts to which it must be said 'no'. But it is not enough to say 'no' and to stay there. by saying 'no' it is, above all, necessary to say 'yes' to solutions that promote the indispensable trust in institutions. That is the demanding challenge of our time. And our time is now. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u195	Mr Jorge Lacão, for a request for clarification, Mr Carlos Peixoto, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, which has 23 seconds transferred by the NAP. You have the floor, Mr. Carlos Peixoto.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u196	Mr President, Mr Jorge Lacão, I think that the honourable Member is as well aware of the scandal that has been the « familygate » for a few months now, which has only been forgotten because of the COVID. And what we have seen here and heard was a reaction without a hint of humility and recognition by the Socialist Party and the Government that this is a serious and indecorous case. This is not a «familygate», it is a «friendgate»!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u197	I appreciate your conclusion, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u198	So, honourable Member, what I ask you is whether the Socialist Party deals with this kind of bad practice and whether instead...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u199	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u200	Madam President, I'm done. As I was saying, what I ask you is whether the Socialist Party is committed to this type of mispractice and whether, instead of demarcating itself from them, it still wants to teach the Democratic Social Party about the principle of separation of powers. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u201	Mrs. Members, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group does not have time to answer, but, as the Bureau was tolerant, in 36 seconds, with Mr. Carlos Peixoto asking the question... [[PSD, CH and IL protests.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Carlos Peixoto has more than 36 seconds...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u202	Then I want 15 more!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u203	Madam President, may I use the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u204	Do you ask for the floor to what effect, Mr?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u205	Madam President, it is only to inform that the ENP gives the PS 35 seconds to resolve the problem of the Bureau. [[Oh!...]] [[Oh!...]] [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u206	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would therefore like to ask the services which record the time-limit and I give the floor to Mr Jorge Lacão to respond to the request for clarification. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u207	The ENP is always ready to help!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u208	Madam President, first of all, I would like to thank the Greens for their sympathy. Mr Peixoto, I made an intervention in which I sought, with all serenity, to put a set of topics which would certainly merit the attention of a party who took the initiative to present an inquiry on justice. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u209	We talked about one!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u210	From the beginning to the end, Mr. Deputy started in Chicana and ended up in Chicana. As for all that I have said most, I sincerely confess to you that I did not understand anything about your intention and I have nothing to answer you. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u211	Upstairs are arrogant!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u212	Mr António Filipe of the CFP Parliamentary Group speaks for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u213	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: at this stage of the debate, what seems to us that the area of justice well dispenses are purely caustic speeches, which do not face any of the central problems with which justice is faced, or grandoloquent interventions on combating corruption, which, after squeezing, also have absolutely nothing. And what is well dispensed also is that, around the fight against corruption, there is a talk of ideas about legislative initiatives, when what we need, because we do not have a problem with the absence of anti-corruption laws—and this is often said, but it is not too much to repeat—is that the judicial authorities and the judicial police are provided with the necessary means, either in terms of human resources or in terms of material and expert resources, so that the processes do not go on forever. This is indeed the big issue, and not exactly, we have a permanent speech of self-flashing in the fight against corruption, because, on several occasions, this House has legislated in this matter, and has legislated well. Therefore, the legal arrangement in this area is far from adequate. But there is one issue that, for us, is central to justice, which is about access, which is about the fact that much of the Portuguese population has no money to resort to justice. This means, of course, deeply reforming both the system of judicial costs, making it more accessible to the courts, either the system of access to law, which effectively leaves much to be desired, because it only addresses the population absolutely destitute and leaves aside a large range of the population who, not being destitute, is not below the threshold of poverty, does not have enough means to be able to appeal to the court and enforce their legitimate rights. This is a question which, from our point of view, it is essential that we consider it in the coming days. And here it is indeed worth the presentation of legislative initiatives and a very serious debate in this House. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u214	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have completed the debate period, so we have moved on to the closing period. To that end, Mr André Coelho Lima of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u215	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : At the end of this debate on justice, the issues where they should be relocated must be raised. And to raise the questions is not to forget that we are in a parliamentary scenario where the parties, in the legitimate exercise of the right of opposition, question who is in government about what the government is doing.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u216	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u217	The last thing we need here is to hear from the government about whether the themes that the PSD chooses are the right ones or the wrong ones. That's all I needed! [[PSD applause.]] So, with all the institutional and personal respect we owe you, I would like to say the following: you accused the PSD of bringing minor issues to the discussion, but, Minister, who has scheduled this debate? Was it not the PSD that held this debate? Oh, my God! And who is responsible for defining the issues that arise for this debate? Oh, my God! Is it not the PSD in the legitimate exercise of its right of opposition? Oh, my God! There is no doubt, Mrs Minister, that I should tell you the following: I do not know whether for the Minister a question which a citizen wants to see settled in an administrative court, which is waiting for five years, and sometimes more, is a minor or greater issue. For us, it's a bigger question,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u218	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u219	... because it is also for the citizen, even more so in the courts that judge the State itself, which paradoxically are those that are later. I do not know whether the circumstances of the Criminal Policy Framework Law require the Government to submit a report on the implementation of each criminal policy law and the fact that the Government has not done so until today is a relevant issue, but for us, it is a relevant issue, on which, of course, the Government has to make clarifications. Referring also to this period of the COVID-19, we had the release of prisoners as being the one that most marked this period, but, for example, we have a natural prisoner of Cape Verde, who submitted a request of habeas corpus to the Supreme Court of Justice and saw him satisfied, determining his immediate release, and yet asked to remain in the Lisbon Prison Establishment because of the COVID-19, which was accepted. That is to say, Mrs Minister, we do not know whether this demonstration of the ridicule of some initiatives is relevant to the government or not, but for us, it is clearly relevant that it is mentioned. [[Protests by PS Member José Magalhães.]] That is why, Mr President and Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that the closure of the debate is easy to do, because for the government it is all right, people out there are wrong.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u220	Of course!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u221	For the government, people who wait hours to see a settled situation in the courts, people who go six and seven times to a court and return home, people who know how the justice system works — all those who are listening to us — are absolutely wrong because, as we heard here from the government is all right in Portugal, particularly in the area of justice. Mr. President and Mrs. Members : I would like to say that, of course, the PSD has allocated this debate because it is concerned about this which is a nuclear area in democracy, in the functioning of State democracy. The PSD brought this issue to debate because, at a time when concerns remain, but are less focused on the pandemic that still takes the country, it is time to debate the return to full functioning of the nevrálgic areas of the functioning of the State, as is clearly the area of justice.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u222	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u223	That is why, Mr President and Mr President. Members, the PSD, as already mentioned by Mónica Quintela, a year and a half ago presented its proposal, its pact for Portuguese justice. You did it in parliament, you did it with the proper discretion. He presented it to all the parties with parliamentary seats and also to the Government. [[Protests by PS Member José Magalhães.]] Those who are our proposals, let us make them up to this stage, which can then be criticised by other parties, precisely to prevent the debate here. We have done so because what we wanted and we continue to want is a real reform of Portuguese justice and not just a management of the daily life, as this government has done. [[PSD applause.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we now understand better why the government did not want to take into account the proposed PSD justice pact. I did not want to take it into account, because for the government it is all right, because for the government the functioning of the courts is in an Olympic perfection and there can be no better courts in the world than the Portuguese courts and the functioning of Portuguese justice. So why are we here? Addressing me outside now, I wanted to tell you. Prosecutors, to the ladies. Judges, ladies and gentlemen. Advocates, to the citizens who go to the courts, who we have scheduled this debate because we think it is not all right, because, contrary to what the government proclaims, we think it is not all right, we think it needs to do better. And although we are accused by the government itself of coming to this debate without proposals, I would like to tell you that it is much worse to have a government without proposals, because it has been ruling for six years and, to date, there is absolutely nothing to be seen. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u224	They're not proposing anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u225	To close this debate, on behalf of the Government, you have the floor of Ms. Justice Minister Francisca Van Dunem.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u226	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I regret that the debate on this appeal has been another missed opportunity. It is obvious that the Government does not intend to unionize the proposals that are brought here or the terms of the inquiry. What the government does and what I did here today is to say that, considering the debate in 2018 and the circumstances of me being two days ago in 1. the Commission, where I was asked the same questions that were put here, this plea was, sorry, a waste of ideas. The concentration they made in cases was such that it can only be justified to hide ideas that they do not have. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Then, an important question was that many interventions have turned around the omission of measures relating to the post-pandemic period—of course, we are still in a pandemic period, but in any case they referred to the later period. I answer this: firstly, contingency plans remain and are equal to the entire Public Administration. We now have estimates of the effects of the pandemic with regard to procedural expectations and procedural acts. And last Tuesday, I mentioned that a first estimate made by the Directorate-General for Justice Policy ( DGPJ ), based on the comparison of the sense of the evolution of expectations between February 2019 and June 2019 and February 2020 and June 2020, pointed to the persistence of the reduction in the civil area—of course including executions and insolvencys—and to increases of expectations in criminal justice, social justice and protective justice. These were the areas in which growth trends were identified. However, it must be taken into account that the trend towards decline in the civil area — and this analysis has been done — will essentially be due to the moratoriums that are still in force. We always said that we had a clear idea that the economic and social effects of the pandemic would have reflections on the courts, particularly in the areas of trade, executions and work. But we also said that these effects would only be felt at its maximum intensity when the measures of, I would say, standtill, which currently exist, in relation to insolvency and executions are raised. We also believe that we will have an increase in domestic violence, which has been confirmed, as well as in the frauds carried out through the media. As far as economic justice is concerned, which is one of the areas we are always talking about, I would like to say — and I have already said so last Tuesday — that the instruments existing today in Portugal for economic justice have been outlined in times of crisis. The PER ( Special Revitalisation Process ), in 2012, was designed to respond to the crisis ; then, in 2017, the Government, through the Capitalisation Programme, created another important set of instruments, in particular the RERE ( Extrajudicial Business Recovery Scheme ) and the PEAP ( Special Payment Agreement Process ), and the latter being a process applicable to natural persons, instruments which in some way already intended to respond to emergency contexts. So right now, the perception that we have is the following: we will indeed have a need to respond to the great insurrection that comes there, but the insurrection is not now. The courts do not sit right now, nor will they feel in the next period. The courts will feel it in October, November and December, and that is why we have to be prepared. And that's where the question of judicial holidays has just been put. Mr. Carlos Peixoto, you will have the honesty to confirm that the question of judicial holidays originates in a Parliament rule in Article 7 ( 11 ). the Act No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March, in which Parliament says that it will assess in due course the need to reduce judicial holidays. He heard about it, and after listening to the senior judicial councils, I said that what it would be possible to do, from the Government's perspective, would be a reduction of the first fortnight. As a result, Parliament was certainly not expecting me to take an initiative, because the initiative to talk about judicial holidays is Parliament's. Then, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, my reading is that this is not the time. What we need is to re-examine in October, November or December, based on the expectations we have and the pressure the courts will have. That is why I am working together with the superior councils of the judiciary, to be able to give a timely answer to this question. And I would like to recall something else here: that, in terms of economic justice, our numbers are very favorable to us. at insolvency level, we no longer have 4000, we have 1500 ; and civil actions have fallen 42 % in this last four-year period. So we still have space. Why? Because the tables, when they were defined, were -it was for the reality that we then had, for the procedural volume we had, for the expectations and for that demand. Obviously, ladies and gentlemen. Members, this analysis will be done and we will then take the initiatives that are considered appropriate to respond to this situation. The only thing I think is that it is not possible to say that the government is not monitoring the situation or not taking initiatives. Justice, at this moment, as well as other systems, lives a lot of perceptions. And whether we want to do it or not, as much as it may seem cost, the truth is that Portuguese justice is better, our expectations are much less. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In global terms, we have approximately 35 % expectations. These are numbers, they're not perceptions. And what it costs me is to get to this House, for which justice is so important, and to get out of here with the perception that there is, permanently, a vision that things only go wrong and that there is nothing good about the justice system. And it costs me, above all, that this perception is systematically passed abroad, ending up with a perception that effectively brings into question fundamental institutions of the democratic rule of law. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u227	Ended the appeal to the Government No 5 / XIV / 1. the, requested by the PSD, on the current situation of justice in Portugal, will give the floor to Mr. Secretary Nelson Peralta for the usual ads.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u228	Mrs. Members, I would like to point out to the Members who were present by video conference at today's plenary meeting: PS Member Olavo Chamber and PSD Member Sérgio Marques, elected by the Autonomous Region of Madeira. That's all, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u229	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the next plenary session will take place tomorrow at 9 a.m. on a number of agenda items. In the first point, we will hold an urgent debate required by the PSD Parliamentary Group on the current state of culture in Portugal. In the second point, we will generally discuss the Bill No 37 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Alter to the Budget Framework Act. In the third point, we will jointly appreciate the Bills Nos 254 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Interpretation of Decree-Law No 111 / 2012 of 23 May, clarifying its subjective scope of application, 270 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — The fourth amendment is made to Decree-Law No 111 / 2012 of 23 May and 420 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Establishs an independent mandatory assessment of the impact on the medium and long-term sustainability of public finances and the economic and financial viability of public-private partnership contracts ( third amendment to Decree-Law No 111 / 2012 of 23 May ). At the fourth point, we will discuss together the Drafts of Law No 260 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Reparation of tax injustices against pensioners, 410 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Interpretation of Law No 119 / 2019 of 18 September, clarifying the scope of retroactive application of Article 74. IRS Code 426 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Strengthening of social security response capacity and 441 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Amendment to the Tax Code on the Income of Single Persons, clarifying the application of Article 74. o. At the fifth point, we will discuss together the Bills Nos 345 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Nationalization of TAP and SPdH, 369 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Public control of TAP and SPdH, 419 / XIV / 1. a ( IL) — condition the use of public funds relating to the TAP for its prior approval by the Assembly of the Republic and 430 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Recovery of public control of TAP. At the sixth point, we will appreciate Decree-Law No 19 / 2020 of 30 April establishing a temporary and exceptional regime of support for humanitarian firefighters associations in the context of the COVID-19 disease pandemic [ Parliamentary assessments No 11 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) and 18 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) ]. At the seventh point, we will discuss Bill No. 438 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Emergency Plan for the National Health Service together with Resolution Projects Nos. 428 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Extraordinary Program for the Recovery of Consultations, Examinations and Surgery, 419 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Plan for the recovery of planned activity in the National Health Service, 449 / XIV / 1. a (NAP) — Recommends the prioritization of investment in the structural and operational needs of the National Health Service and the valorization of all its professionals and 453 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Reinforcement of investment in the National Health Service. At the eighth point, we will discuss the Bills No. 391 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Creates a new contest for CI & DT projects in all scientific domains, 392 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Extraordinary mechanism for the regularization of debts for non-payment of propines in public higher education institutions, 424 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Suspends the expiry of employment contracts of workers of institutions of science, technology and higher education, 425 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Creates an extraordinary mechanism of debt regularization for non-payment of propines in public higher education institutions as a response to COVID-19, 439 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Approves a set of measures to strengthen support in the context of school social action in higher education and 440 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Approves a set of exceptional and temporary measures to safeguard the rights of public higher education workers and students, together with Resolution Projects Nos 490 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends to the Government the conditions necessary for the functioning of higher education and research at this stage of epidemiological outbreak, 465 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends measures to strengthen social action in higher education in combating the crisis of COVID-19, 466 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends measures to respond to the health, economic and social crisis of COVID-19 in higher education and science, 488 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Measures to combat abandonment in higher education following the Covid-19 pandemic, 493 / XIV / 1. a ( Member not registered Joacine Katar Moreira ) — Recommends emergency support to the Government to strengthen social action and student housing in higher education in the context of the current pandemic crisis caused by the SARS-CoV-2 virus. Finally, on the ninth point, we will have a regular vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u230	I call on you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u231	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u232	The President has the right to say, after the long statement she has made, what is the total number of diplomas scheduled for tomorrow?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u233	I can't answer you, sir. And I ask you to excuse me from telling them now.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u234	I knew that the President was not going to answer the question, but I just wanted to leave it emphasized, on my sole responsibility, the lack of rationality that this agenda implies for Parliament. [[Congrats from PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-25.u235	I can only tell you that the agenda on our agenda has nine pages. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 48 minutes.]]
