ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, Mrs. Officers of authority. Let's start our work. [[It was 14 hours and 4 minutes.]] Today's plenary session has as its first point the presentation and discussion of the Report on the Implementation of the State of Emergency Declaration from 24 November to 8 December 2020. To open the debate, you have the floor by the Government, Mr. Minister of Internal Administration, Eduardo Cabrite, which I greet.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The report, today under discussion, fulfils the legal obligations and institutional obligations of political scrutiny of the Government's activity on how the decree of determination of the state of emergency, approved by the Assembly of the Republic is implemented. It is also part of a follow-up framework close by the Assembly of the Republic of all that we have been doing since March. This is 12th. The report — between state of emergency reports and reports, not required by law, on the phases of disaster, contingency or alerting situations — which the Government presents here. On this stage, I would say that this fortnight corresponds to a number of particularly relevant situations in the follow-up to this framework. It corresponds to the period of higher occurrence of situations of contagion incidence, the period when the largest number of municipalities was subject to restrictive measures because they were in very high or extreme risk situations. It also corresponds, as regards the scope of the prophylactic isolation obligations, to the period when the number of active cases far exceeded 80 000, reaching 88 000 active cases one day. But it also corresponds to the period in which the measures taken, their proportionality, the way in which we defend the Portuguese, their health and the functioning of the National Health Service ( SNS ) are proven by the verified evolution, because it was during this fortnight that the number of active cases decreased by more than 80 000, as I mentioned for 70 000, on 8 December. in these 14 days, we passed from 1300 cases per 100,000 inhabitants in the North region to a situation, still worrying at this time, in which we have 767 cases (date of yesterday). This is almost half the one that was the incidence on November 24. What does this prove? That these measures, with the initiative of the President of the Republic, the approval of the Assembly of the Republic and the determination of the Government, were decisive in preventing growth, inflecting the evolution of the pandemic, defending the maintenance of the response capacity of the National Health Service and, above all, its response areas in intensive care, preparing here the hope that, as we will discuss in the next debate, will be given to us by the arrival of the vaccine. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u3	Not wishing to speak to Mr João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the IL, now has the floor Mr André Ventura, of the CH.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister : The report on the implementation of the State of Emergency Declaration which is presented to this House has once again a particular feature: it can transmit very little about what was truly the state of emergency. It is not possible to clarify what had been asked to clarify, which was what all the parties had asked this Government to do, in addition to having clear, stable and permanent measures in the context of the state of emergency. What this report does not show is the confusion that has occurred throughout the country and that is evident in several reports of forces, particularly police, the confusion that the Portuguese had with regard to rules that they had to comply or that they had not to comply with, these rules that the President of the Republic said were recommendations, that the Government said they were prohibitions, that some parties said they were indications and others said they were mere warnings. This report does not touch again on an essential point, which is the point of clarity and sustainability of these measures. Therefore, if it is the same programme that will be presented to the Portuguese, as we have been told by the Government, this report gives us the best reasons why we should not make the new state of emergency possible.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u5	The floor is now for an intervention by the Parliamentary Group of the Green Party, Mrs Mariana Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are debating today the Report on the Implementation of the Declaration of the State of Emergency from 24 November to 8 December 2020. The declaration of the state of emergency did not have the agreement of the Greens, because we have made it clear from the outset that we do not consider this to be the instrument necessary to prevent the spread of the COVID-19. Since March the Portuguese are confronted with a succession of unexpected events, revealing an extraordinary ability to understand the health security measures that are necessary for daily routines. We therefore do not tire of welcoming the Portuguese for the widespread compliance with the security measures, particularly at times when the numbers of infections and hospitalizations have increased, knowing how to reserve themselves and contribute to the fateful numbers of infected, hospitalized and killed. Thus, while the Portuguese continue to look at the full sense of responsibility for the recommendations of the political authorities, the Government continues to have within the normal legal framework all the conditions for nothing lacking in this fight. This report, like the previous reports, refers to a normality that does not happen in reality, which is necessary to identify in order to adapt measures that allow for greater security and protection in all areas. This is a report that does not describe the real difficulties of the Portuguese. He speaks of the days of interruption of classes in the first weeks of December, but he does not speak of the workers, mostly women, who lost two days of vacation or salary because the government decided that it would be so. He does not speak of the difficulties that he feels in schools with the lack of operational assistants and the difficulties in ensuring good supervision of students and combating fear and anxiety. As far as culture is concerned, this report discusses the performances that have taken place, and yet it does not talk about the thousands of cultural workers who, as we have discussed yesterday, live in despair. As regards public transport, there are still few, throughout the territory, to ensure safety and to maintain the required distance. The report focuses only on the description of what has been done in the large metropolitan areas — and even in these areas not mirroring reality — and little is evaluated in the rest of the territory. The report is read and we do not understand why there is no description of the difficulties Portuguese feel in the various areas. The state of emergency is still being used and the localities that have not yet been returned to mobility, nor the normality of primary health care, are still forgotten and abandoned. Unfortunately, this report continues to go hand in hand with the real impact of these measures on the lives of Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u7	I have the floor for an intervention by the Parliamentary Group of the PAN, Mrs Bebiana Cunha.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The report we now appreciate shows a period when not only the peak of infections was in fact higher, but in which the number of infections has also been reduced, although the number of patients admitted to intensive care units is still very worrying. With 88% of deaths occurring at 70 years of age or above, it is very clear that the government cannot facilitate it. The National Network of Continued Care has repeatedly exposed its needs in this House, but for that reason not even the proposal brought by the NAP, in the budget of the State, which aimed precisely to support the institutions that make up this Network, was approved. Care better cannot mean insulating or not allowing visits to those who are already alone in a situation of loneliness, so it is important that the Government guarantee security conditions so that the elderly who are isolated or in a situation of high vulnerability, as well as institutionalized children or young people, have the necessary follow-up of proximity and do not feel alone at this particularly difficult stage. The increase in cases in prison establishments is also a warning of the importance of also ensuring the protection of those in prison. At the economic level, despite the measures implemented, a study conducted by the Catholic University reported that one quarter of the people surveyed today have less income than they had before these crises. We therefore continue to say that it is essential that, in a structured and planned way, ensure the adaptation of support, to ensure the responses to the different sectors and people who are affected by this crisis. This is also a very marked period by a greater use of disposable products and materials, in contrast to the course to be taken in terms of efficient use and circularity of resources. The growing demand for disposable products is becoming, in fact, a matter of public and environmental health, with an incorrect high deposition of gloves and masks, which brings many difficulties in waste management, so we hope that the awareness-raising campaign that the NAP has managed to register in the State budget will be developed efficiently and as soon as possible. What happens in this matter is a sign that we need an economy capable of producing, restoring and renewing, without forgetting the protection of our common home. We do not yet know how much longer we will have to live with this virus and the renewal of the state of emergency, so in addition to a legal requirement, the analysis of these reports must effectively contribute to our being able to anticipate scenarios and mitigate the effects of this crisis.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u9	For an intervention by the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, Mr João Pinho de Almeida has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: We are not going to treat the presentation of this report as if it were another presentation of a report. Let's not be careful. Anyone here presenting this report, on behalf of the Government, is a minister who, from our point of view, should not be in office. So, Minister, I have to tell you directly: we believe that the authority of the State to deal with the exceptional situation we are debating here has a lot to do with whom the government chooses to perform this function. And to bring here a minister who still came to Parliament this week to be heard and the evaluation we made of his answers was that there were no conditions for him to continue in office is a disrespect for what the government should have in this regard and the authority it must have in order to carry out the functions. The balance sheet we make in this report is clear: the Portuguese have fulfilled and the government has complicated it. The government has complicated the rules and complicated its implementation and the authority it had to execute them. It has completed the rules, because it insisted on irrational rules, which cannot pass through either the foundation of the scientific basis to apply them or the direct efficiency they have produced. We had already had the example of the hours to which certain establishments open and close and of the congestion that continued to exist according to this criterion, and obviously the effect of not concentrating people was not achieved, on the contrary, in a few hours the same number of people who would be distributed throughout the day. But during this state of emergency, we have, for example, had another situation that deserves to be pointed out and that it is the fact that we continue to have frontiers, I recommend the municipality, in metropolitan areas. However, this led to the fact that in the same metropolitan area there could be a council with collection at 1 p.m. and that the council on the side did not have the same restriction, leading not only to a concentration of the people of the municipality who did not have that restriction, but of all those who, having the restriction, went out to go — and this was seen — to the neighbouring commercial surfaces, for example, in Lisbon, in the Town Council of Amador or in the Town Council of Odivelas. Then there is the question of schools: there are still schools that measure the temperature of students and schools that do not measure; schools in which are the assistants who do the disinfection and schools in which there is disinfection if teachers do it, because if they do not do it there is no; there are schools that, when there are cases, close up and schools in which, when there are cases, goes an entire class home and others in which only the student who has been identified as positive for COVID-19. That is, there is no protocol that works identically for all educational establishments in the country. And then, Mr Minister, about what he says most directly to you, the security forces and services...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u11	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u12	I will finish, Mr. President. This report points to the importance of the pedagogical role of these security forces and services, but for this to happen, these security forces and services must be with their maximum authority.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u13	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u14	But having a minister who does not have that authority, of course they are weakened in their function. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u15	Mr António Filipe spoke for an intervention by the CFP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u16	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a fundamental disagreement between us, which has already been discussed, and which has to do with the need for the state of emergency. The position of the CFP is that it was not necessary to declare the state of emergency in order to be able to take the necessary physical distance and health safety measures to prevent the spread of the COVID-19. This question was discussed more than once, but there are questions that arise, because of the concrete measures that have been taken at this stage of the state of emergency and which provoke, I would say, the general lack of understanding of people. These issues have already been addressed in this debate and, in fact, we do not understand the advantage of concentrating people on purchases at the same time of day, especially on Saturday mornings. You don't understand! That is, when people could make purchases of their first-needed products separately, in several hours of the day, they all have to concentrate and, therefore, it is enough to see the commercial areas in the morning to check the huge crowding of people. You don't understand the advantage of that, I repeat, you don't understand the advantage of that. This is not shown to be advantageous, in order to avoid the spread of the virus, and there is a general misunderstanding of people regarding this measure. The same applies to the prohibition of movement between municipalities. Anyone understands that within the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon there are people who reside in neighbouring areas of various municipalities... I, for example, can say that, to move from my residence to the Assembly of the Republic, I can go through four councils, if the transit to this force me. Well, this means that many people within your municipality have to travel to areas far away from your residence to do shopping rather than to do so in commercial areas of neighbouring municipalities. This is evidence. Therefore, you also do not realize why this limitation is given and what advantages is that it has. People will, of course, accept restrictions on who is their daily way of life if they understand, if they are shown that this is advantageous from the point of view of avoiding contagion, of avoiding the spread of the virus. But there are measures that have been taken in recent times—and that persist—that people do not understand and I believe they do not understand legitimately. Just as, and with this ending, Mr President, we do not understand the limitation on the closing of restaurants at 1 p.m., which makes people all concentrate between 12 and 13 hours, when this could be avoided perfectly by maintaining normal operating conditions.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u17	Thank you very much, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u18	In conclusion, Mr President, saying that there is a lack of proportionality here in the appropriateness of measures which, from our point of view, should be corrected with or without a state of emergency.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u19	Mr Moisés Ferreira spoke for an intervention by the Left Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u20	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : The state of emergency we are discussing coincided with two weekends that could be extended to many people and still there was a breakdown, a slight reduction in the incidence of COVID-19, which we find positive. However, the daily incidence remains very high, which suggests a possible third wave of considerable size, but the incidence breakdown, in recent weeks, shows that the population, on the one hand, has complied with the rules and also shows what everyone in this country already knows, that health professionals, particularly the professionals of the National Health Service, have been inexhaustible. Even with enormous pressure on hospitalization, on intensive care units, SNS health professionals have responded and have also allowed the consequences of the pandemic to be diminished for the entire population. Now, what has actually been lacking is more government measures, on the one hand, to respond to problems that have long been identified, on the other hand, to mitigate consequences arising from restrictive measures, particularly those imposed by the state of emergency. Many of these problems are already identified. In fact, in the Report itself on the state of emergency, the Northern Regional Coordination Authority says that there is still a lack of robust information systems, and there is a need to improve the link between social security and health. But it is not just necessary to go to what the Northern Regional Coordination Authority says, just to see, for example, what happened with the abolition of trains in these extended weekends, which led to overcrowding and a large concentration of people, many of them who had to travel because they were working. It makes no sense that there is a abolition of trains to force a higher concentration of people in train stations. There are still problems, for example, with the issue of isolation declarations, with the immediate non-payment of people in quarantine. There is still a total lack of economic measures, and this is indeed the main record of this report. On the economic side, there is no economic measure planned there, when we have sectors of activity that are suffering immensely from restrictive measures. Over the past few weeks, we have seen the Government favour contracts of tens of millions of euros with private hospitals when, in fact, it has an instrument that is the civilian requirement of these facilities and resources. The government could, through this request, not only strengthen the country's response capacity, but also use this money in the National Health Service rather than being placed in the private sector.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u21	Mr President, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u22	I'm done now, Mr. President. The government has instruments that are being reinforced with the state of emergency, but it has not been using them. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u23	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I inform the plenary that we already have a quorum for the votes that will follow the following point. Mr Artur Sovereign Andrade of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u24	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The first note will remember that the PSD in this period, as has always happened, was guided by a principle that was to put the country above the selfish interests party. in this period, which was especially problematic, the PSD was careful to go always giving notice of what was going less well or even that was going wrong. The second note goes to a compliment to the Portuguese. In fact, the Portuguese have had exemplary behavior and we simply see the news to compare with what is happening out there, so this praise is entirely deserved. Of course, there are some special highlights here in the area of health, in the area of safety, in the area of education and of all the people who, in one way or another, have made the country stop and the economy continue to move. However, there is a group of people to whom merit has been little recognized and I am referring to the authors who have been acting, both in prevention and in the fight against COVID, who have become one of the essential pillars so that the situation is no longer catastrophic. That is a genuine thanks to the autarchs. Specifically, and with regard to the state of emergency in the period from 24 November to 8 December, in which, I remember, 1136 people died, it is important to say the following: we believe that the government did the best that it knew, the question is that, often, this was not enough and sometimes too often, it has failed to do much better or at least not do harm. I am going to give examples: he failed in the management of the times since he almost always ran after the damage, he also failed in the pendulum way in which in the same days he was in favour of dramatization and in the unclean days of optimization. He failed to help non-COVID patients who suffered beyond what was reasonable. The companies were not sufficiently supported and this resulted in a number of unemployment and insolvencys that could have been avoided. In relation to the middle class, people with lower incomes, the elderly and the young, in this revised and reduced edition, in terms of parliamentary support, the government, which was already in its early formation was fragile, took measures whose cognitive course that was followed was incomprehensible as here have been given some examples. I think that even a manual of instructions with the rules, exceptions to the rules and exceptions to the exceptions should have been made, and in this manual of certainty that the part of the error would be the most significant density. In conclusion, in the context of health, there was a lack of capacity to predict and plan, in the part of the economy, no conditions have been created so that the economy will be able to recover.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u25	Mr President, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u26	I will now do so, Mr President. I end with a request: do not infantilize communication with Portuguese, treat us as adults, there is no virus that prevents you. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u27	Mr Pedro Delgado Alves of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u28	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, Minister, Minister, Secretary of State : First of all, in the context of a balance sheet on the implementation of the state of emergency, the first word should be, as several banks have already noted, of greeting health professionals, to whom, in the first line, has ensured a more intense and direct impact of the consequences of the pandemic. But I would particularly like to welcome all those who have been mobilized to ensure the implementation of the state of emergency: the security forces and services, the teachers of all levels of education and the authorships which, as you have just mentioned, should be praised and honored, too, for what has been their commitment and for what they have done to minimize the negative effects of the pandemic. in this context it is also important to have this opportunity again to see the detailed information that, once again, the government provides us to be able to make the balance sheet of what happened and also to prepare what we will discuss immediately and the analysis and evaluation of how the state of emergency has been addressed. in this report, there is clearly a decline and therefore a more positive result, obviously in a context of great difficulty, insofar as we can contain and reduce the impact of the contagions. This is the main objective and that justifies the need for the state of emergency. Once again, there is evidence of compliance with and adherence to the rules that have been placed on the table. Once again, the report is extraordinarily focused on the need for sanctions measures and on the detection of cases where the pedagogical component of this intervention was not sufficient. But as we have already had the opportunity to say in previous times, in the debates that preceded this, if we look at the profile of the measures adopted in the rest of Europe, what we find are different degrees of lock down intensity and closure of economic activity, closure of schools, closure of restaurants and commercial establishments. Therefore, we find solutions that are easier because they choose to cut the shaft and stop the activity, but are, of course, harder. As we have already had the opportunity to see and say the last time we did this debate, we cannot want to simultaneously have health protection, safeguard as much as possible economic activity, proportionality and adequacy and then not have any degree of complexity and some need to look in detail at the measures adopted. Of course, the evolution of the pandemic scale in each territory and the measures adopted and adjusted to each circumstance make reading of the measures less evident and may make their apprehension more complex. But they are absolutely indispensable in order to be able to allocate resources sustainably to places where it is necessary to run more intensively and, of course, not restrict fundamental rights beyond what is reasonable. Is it complex? It is. Is it harder than just saying that everything is forbidden? Of course. But that is precisely why we make this regular assessment, which is why we restrict fundamental rights to absolutely essential rights and why, of course, in a society that wants to maintain democracy and that wants to keep the economy working as much as possible, we must have this approach. In conclusion, I would remind you once again — it is not because we repeat the idea that it becomes real — that all the measures that could be mobilized to support the economy were.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u29	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u30	I will finish, Mr. President. More than EUR 7 billion were placed to support firms in difficulty, 1, 1 billion were directed specifically to the restoration sector. We know that it is not enough, because we also know that everything we face is on a totally unexpected scale and, obviously, unprecedented in our recent history. So, all we can do is welcome, we would all like to do a lot more, but the lack of resources for some of these challenges, in fact, does not allow it. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u31	To close this debate, I have the floor by the Government, the Minister of Health, Marta Temido, who I also wish to congratulate. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u32	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The analysis of the results of the implementation of this state of emergency is in view of the report and are understandable by the quote of two numbers. In the week prior to this state of emergency, the country had some 39 000 cases; in the first week of this state of emergency it had a total of about 33 000 cases and in the second week it had some 27 000 cases. From the end of August to the first week of this state of emergency, the country had an increasing risk of effective transmission, measured over time, and had it above 1. In the week 30 November to 4 December, the average effective risk of transmission was 0, 97. Is everything okay? No, it's not okay. We are far from being in a comfortable situation and this continues to demand the best of us and continues to demand that we do not explore irrationality, not infantilize people and, as such, start by not infantilizing ourselves in this House. The measures are not irrational, they are not difficult to understand, because what we want is to reduce contacts and this, in a simplistic way, can only be done by closing everyone at home. We try to use proportionate measures and that are the minimum possible limiting of what is the normal functioning of a society. This implies restrictions on working and moving hours, which are not designed to upset or oppose anyone, but to avoid an increasing number of contacts. What is worth stressing right now is the ability that the Portuguese have not had to be selfish. What is worth stressing is that, as this is a special moment of our year, the call we leave is that we do not let ourselves be caught by selfishness but by the ability to be supportive and protect one another. This is because, despite what is seen on the horizon, in terms of perspectives, it is a lot to do and the month of December will be a very difficult month in which we all need to be united in the fight against the virus and to explain adequately what we saw: we came to help save the country from a disease. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u33	To conclude this debate, Mr. Minister of Internal Administration has the floor. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u34	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This debate shows the broad consensus on the adequacy and indispensableity of the measures taken. I join everyone in recognizing the exemplary way in which the Portuguese responded actively to the measures adopted by Parliament at the initiative of the President of the Republic and carried out by the Government, and in the way we have safeguarded the functioning of the schools, essential to save the new generations, as we have tried to mitigate the impact on the economy, reducing the level of constraints on economic activity. To the criticisms I have seen here, and which express legitimate concerns, the alternative is what, a little across Europe, has been done, i.e. the total closure, the non-distinguishment between territories. These measures test the ability to differentiate territorially as often as required. Finally, this is an exercise of transparency. They are more than 110 pages of Report and many more annexes, in which the Government, with transparency, shows how it fulfils the mandate that Parliament and the President of the Republic have given it. What's the best result? On the day that this state of emergency began we had 750 cases per 100,000 inhabitants in the last 14 days; on the last day of this state of emergency, December 8, we had 576. This is the stimulus that Portuguese and health professionals deserve to continue to fight to overcome the pandemic. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u35	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to start the second item on the agenda, the debate on the request for authorization to renew the state of emergency. I just wanted to say that on 16 December I received the message from the President of the Republic which contains the basis and content of the draft decree of the President of the Republic, which renews the state of emergency for a period of 15 days until 7 January 2021. In its first paragraphs, the decree points out that « the susceptibility of the renewal of the state of emergency, from 24 December to 7 January, has already been announced in the preamble to the Decree of the President of the Republic No 61 -A / 2020 of 4 December, and that the Government has established measures to take during the Christmas and end-of-year periods», and that « in fact, the situation of public calamity caused by the COVID-19 pandemic remains maintained and, despite the slight decrease in the incidence rate of new cases of infections, a still very high number of deaths remain, confirming, experts, the clear risks of further worsening the pandemic in case of measures taken to deal with it. Do not keep on seeking. ” To begin the debate on this agenda item, I call on Mrs Constance Urbano de Sousa, of the PS Parliamentary Group. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u36	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we renew the state of emergency, with a sense of responsibility. Unfortunately, we will continue to need containment measures that contribute very effectively to prevent the spread of COVID-19. Despite positive results and today the vaccine is much closer than yesterday, the fact is that the pandemic situation continues to be very serious, not only in Portugal, but in all European countries. A little across Europe, we witnessed a widespread hardening of the measures to contain the level of transmission of this terrible virus on Christmas and New Year's Eve. To date, in Portugal, the Government has adopted far less restrictive measures compared with those of other European countries which have chosen this week for generalized, total or almost total confinements. In Portugal these containment measures have been proportional and differentiated depending on the risk, in order to control the pandemic and, at the same time, within possible, not to kill the economy and, with this, the support of many people. The European Medicines Agency's anticipation of the authorisation of an effective and safe vaccine allows us today to look at the future with renewed hope. With this authorization we will be able to anticipate the vaccination campaign and, with this, we will be able to get out of the nightmare in which we find ourselves. But we all need to understand that the vaccination process, which is vital to saving human lives, is very complex, has to be phased out and can never be carried out in a few weeks or even a few months. So we will continue to need restrictive measures and this is not the time to lower the guard and throw everything away until we can face a third strike. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will therefore vote in favour of the renewal of the state of emergency, to enable the Government with the powers necessary to maintain or adopt gradual, appropriate and proportionate measures, which contribute to avoiding the spread of the virus and thereby save lives. The approval of this renewal by Parliament is also a manifestation of its high sense of responsibility, because what is at stake is the protection of the life, health and well-being of the whole community. With the approach of Christmas and New Year, times of convivio, by nature, I would like to stress that the fight against the pandemic calls us all, as citizens and citizens. We must all be aware that it is our own responsibility to suit our individual behavior. We all have to remember, every moment, that all care is little and no sacrifice is too much when what is at stake is the life of people. Winning the long and difficult fight against the pandemic is not only the responsibility of the government, Parliament or the institutions, it is a joint responsibility for all of us. I know we're all tired. But, individually and collectively, we need to make a final effort, however painful it may be, because if there is a certainty, today, is that the virus feeds on our behavior, and from it alone, depends, to a large extent, on the lives of many people. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u37	For an intervention by the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Carlos Peixoto has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u38	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr Secretary of State, Mr and Mr. Members: The PSD has enabled all previous requests for declaration and renewal of the state of emergency. He'll make this one more viable, too. The data are what they are and we believe that the government continues to need this exceptional regime to be able to implement pandemic containment measures. We know from the first day that these measures severely affect people and businesses, but between the storm of an economic crisis in the country and the serious risk to the health and life of each one of us, there is nowhere to choose. Lifeless there is no economy and, without health, life is not the same thing. We will not make any free political use of this scourge. But in the same way that COVID cannot be fertile ground to expose the fragility of the government, also the state of emergency cannot be a mask to hide its errors. In the summer, the Government was confident that it should be busy working on the strategy for the recovery of millions of consultations, treatments and surgeries that its political options have compromised. Also, he was unable to stop the brutal increase in mortality and was not diligent in the homes to contain the contagios and deaths of the older population. There is no one who does not fear that if he did not correct the influenza vaccination plan, the government may also fail in the Vaccination Plan against COVID. Even because, by restricting this plan and its application to health centres, it is very difficult that these health centres, without receiving guidance and having centralized data to organize the call processes of people, can perform their work well. All this causes legitimate apprehension and mistrust, now greater, with the most open rules announced for Christmas and New Year's Squares. It is understandable, as has already been said, that it is intended to soften the level of fatigue and exhaustion with so much, but so much, contradictory, confusing and unjust prohibition. We're all looking forward to spending Christmas in the family, but, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, the dilemma persists and adherence to reality is even strong. Close contacts favor contagions and science explains what happens next: numbers shoot. With the vaccine on the way, even though distant, or the government is thoughtful and intelligent or sympathetic and popular. Both things at the same time may not produce good results, may be something explosive and may trigger the « clock pump». Last week, the contagios increased 4 %—and only increased because the number of tests decreased — and deaths increased 7 %. The Portuguese Government is the only one in Europe who has not implemented restrictions on movement between municipalities in the next 15 days, even those at high risk. And, as you know, it is the only one who did not give any reference indication for the number of people to be grouped at family meetings or to adopt standard behaviors. We must not or want to fall into the caricature of other countries, which have implemented measures considered anecdotals, but we must be more rational and colder in the analysis. If, as regards the end-of-year celebrations, we think it is sensible to limit each one's freedom with more imposing rules, already as regards Christmas the equation, being more difficult to weigh on the meaning that it does not, however, dispense with the definition of clearer indications that help each one's moral decision. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this year there will also be Christmas,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u39	What about breakfast?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u40	...but it will certainly be a different Christmas. Different, so that it is not the last and so that the family can, in peace, celebrate and glorify life. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u41	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares of BE has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u42	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In the renewal of another state of emergency and with the awareness that you can already see a light at the bottom of this second wave tunnel, I believe that the first word has necessarily to be for all health workers in Portugal who have ensured that the country is going through this difficult test. If we're talking about tiredness today, if we're talking about who's exhausted so much that it has to go through these long nine months, with two VOCID vacancies, I believe that, first of all, they are all and all these professionals in our country to whom we owe so much. It is in the discussion of the renewal of the state of emergency that we evaluate what has been done and what must be done. The Government, through Mr President of the Republic, will have a request to the Assembly of the Republic to do what is most extraordinary in a democracy, which is the limitation of rights and freedoms in the name of a much greater. from the side of the Left Block, we said from the beginning that the declaration of the state of emergency had to always be equationed as a way of not questioning the constitutional law governing the country. And it is curious how, in an emergency state, there have been refinements and corrections, even to respond to the necessary legal certainty that some courts have already called into question. Let us hope that it will be at once, because that is one of the greatest requirements to be made in the fulfilment of the rule of law. If this debate today has in its genesis a second wave, which is already overcome, it may also have in its horizon the beginning of the fight against a third wave. We know she's not determined, it's not absolute certainty. But to govern, being up to a country is to ensure that, if it is necessary to respond to a third wave, the country will not fail. And it's different, if this third wave arrives, the way it will find us. It will not be with the same few hundred daily cases, as happened in September. It will not be with the state of internment or intensive care as it existed in September. So if today, even if we see this light at the bottom of the second wave tunnel, we know that health services are still under great pressure and much more pressure than they were at the beginning of the second wave, the question is whether the government will use this state of emergency to do what it has not done in relation to the rights that the Assembly of the Republic has previously given. Having a SNS that responds is having a SNS that is in charge of the response in the area of health in our country. It is to say that the SNS can require privates, in a planned and timely manner, and not just to respond to some spot remedies, to some partial agreements, to some small requests. It is not always that we see the day-to-day management, but that we are aware of a response horizon that the government has to give. I believe that this is a fundamental point to which this state of emergency must respond. It will respond to the preparation of a country for a stinking third wave, to the requirement of public services for a vaccination which will start slowly, but still during its lifetime, and must ensure that, if necessary, the government will not be afraid of the requirement of the private to respond to these requirements. But there are millions of consultations, millions of treatments, millions of contacts that have yet to be done throughout these nine long months of pandemic. And once again, the state of emergency can and should be used for this: so that the privates are incorporated under the SNS baton, required not according to their profit, but according to the needs of the country and framed in a strategic vision to respond quickly to what was left behind. There are, therefore, three requirements in the area of health: ensuring the response of the SNS, ensuring vaccination and ensuring the response to what was left behind. If the Government can make use of this state of emergency, it will ensure that private individuals are called, also in health, to the requirements for which so many people and so many sectors of activity have been called in this context.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u43	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u44	I shall conclude, Mr President, by saying that it is because of the reluctance that the Left Block has had to abstain from this vote. Knowing that this state of emergency request will be approved, our requirement is that the government of it make the use that it has not yet done so far. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u45	Mr João Oliveira, from the CFP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u46	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP maintains its opposition to the state of emergency declaration and insists that the real emergency facing the country is not subject to restrictive measures. The real emergency is, indeed, measures to ensure the continuation of national life in conditions of health security, with the strengthening of the SNS, first of all, but also with measures to defend the rights of workers and jobs, to support the economic sectors most affected by the economic and social impacts of the epidemic, to measures aimed at culture, recreation and sport and many other measures that they really face in the economic and social situation we continue to face. The problem of the epidemic remains the need to strengthen the SNS as the first and main issue to be addressed. Regardless of the measures that have been defined by the Government for the period of the upcoming festive court, it is essential that the SNS strengthening measures be taken so that it can address the continuing health problem, to ensure the response to other health care and also to achieve, successfully, the objectives that are defined for vaccination, as soon as possible, in conditions of safety and efficacy. It is therefore essential to strengthen the SNS in the capacity to combat epidemic outbreaks, with the strengthening of public health facilities and the capacity for hospitalization and hospital response in this area. At the same time, the SNS also needs to be strengthened so that other pathologies do not remain unanswered and all health care is provided to the users who need it. at this stage, this implies strengthening the number of professionals in primary health care, but also in hospital care. It involves converting health professionals' contracts into final contracts, as the CFP has defended and proposed. It involves investing in increasingly urgent equipment and infrastructure. With regard to vaccination, it is urgent to prepare the SNS for the role it has to play as a guarantor of the vaccination of all Portuguese against COVID-19 as soon as this possibility is guaranteed in conditions of safety and efficacy. As the priorities to be observed in vaccination are defined, it is essential to ensure that the corresponding means exist for them to be met and that the process runs with maximum efficiency. And we want to take advantage of this debate to point out something that seems absolutely essential to us to consider in this context that is the need to ensure the link between health services and homes of the elderly so that all the elderly who belong to priority groups are able to be vaccinated as soon as possible, without failures or delays.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u47	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u48	In addition to strengthening the SNS, there is also the need for emergency measures to ensure respect for workers'rights and the fight against abuses which continue to occur by imposing arbitrary redundancies, cuts in wages or unregulated schedules. The emergency remains in response to the difficult situation experienced by important sectors of economic and social activity and the problems affecting particularly micro, small and medium-sized enterprises and sectors such as restoration, hotel, tourism or culture. Support for managers, who have only lasted six months, must be strengthened, unemployment allowances and other social support that have ended or come to an end must be renewed and require a review of access and payment conditions as the CFP has defended and proposed. In the culture sector, the government has to review the disastrous results of the competition for arts support, which only allow the support of 110 artistic creation structures in 506 that have applied, leaving out 278 considered eligible, but for which there are no support funds. In social security, the dismissal of more than one hundred workers who were to be fired in November and who are now back in December is to be faced with the same problem. In associivism and sports, there is an emergency of support for culture, recreation and sport, which, throughout all this time, have been reduced or prevented from their activity, many of them being confronted with the possibility of not reopening doors. There are already about 173 000 young athletes who have stopped practicing sports, in a problem whose consequences are evident, both in sport practice and in physical and even mental health. The statement of the state of emergency proposed by the President of the Republic, with the agreement of the Government and again viable by the PS, the PS, the BE, the CDS and the PAN, does not answer any of these issues, which constitute the real national emergencies facing the country in the current epidemic situation. The CFP will continue to beat itself so that they will not cease to be considered in the decisions that must be taken, with the political options and the measures that correspond to them. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u49	For an intervention by the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, Mr João Pinho de Almeida has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u50	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr Secretary of State, Mr and Mr. Members: Fifteen days later, we are again discussing the renewal of the state of emergency. What was absolutely exceptional seems to be normal, but it is not. It makes no sense to abuse the state of emergency or make it recurrent. The state of emergency is an end-of-line instrument, which has to be used as such, and therefore when it is almost automatically renewed it is because the public bodies, since the government, have not taken the necessary measures to combat something like a pandemic, which spreads almost a year ago, and continue to amend this responsibility by resorting to the state of emergency instrument. That means the government has failed. It has failed because it has presented incomprehensible measures, it has failed because it has its authority weakened, it has failed because the measures are insufficient and it has failed because planning is delayed. As regards incomprehensible measures, we have already discussed the closure of establishments and the confinement at 1 p.m. What was intended as a measure to avoid congestion, to avoid personal contacts, to avoid what happened in the mornings of every Saturday is probably the biggest example of the failure of the government in the measures it presented. This is not only about purchases but also about meals. At the end of the restoration establishments at 1 p.m., the Government managed, at the same time, to derail family life and to derail the restoration sector. For any scientifically substantiated reason? No, for a whim of closing at 1 p.m. instead of, for example, closing at 3 p.m., which would make all the difference. We have also talked about the overcrowding of collective transport. We have also talked about pendulum movements in metropolitan areas, as if these pendulum movements were suspended because the government says that one cannot move from one municipality to the other being one municipality at a level of restriction different from another. Then we have weakened authority. I have already mentioned this issue, and I have said it to the Minister's face. I am not going to repeat it now, because I am behind him, of what the Minister of Internal Administration has done. Due to the importance of security forces and services in persuasion and pedagogical function during the implementation of these measures, the authority is weakened. But the authority of the State is also weakened by the operation of the Directorate-General for Health. The one who should be the most responsible entity from the scientific point of view and in the transmission of the measures thus trivialized its action that begins to be heard not by the indications that it gives, from a reasoned point of view, essential to the lives of people, but by the suggestions that it makes how to make their meals and how to celebrate holidays. We do not need a Directorate-General of Health to tell us that Christmas can be celebrated at breakfast, we need a Directorate-General of Health that gives us confidence in the health system and in the fight against this pandemic. As for the insufficient measures, we have already talked here about schools and about the absence of a protocol that makes the performance of all schools equal, so that educational assistants, teachers, students and families effectively understand what will happen in each case they are faced with. But we could also ask about the fan issue. Since the beginning of this pandemic, no one knows well what happened to the ordered fans: if they have arrived, if they have not arrived, if they are at work, if they are not at work, and while they are at work, where they stand. Then we have the question of late planning. We cannot believe that, in relation to Vaccination against COVID, the same happens with influenza vaccination. And it's not because they tell us it's going to start on day 27, as it starts in other countries. The question is not the day of the beginning, it is the rhythm of vaccination. And we have the biggest doubts that the rate of vaccination is sufficient for us to reach group immunity in a time that is demanding and that will be the time that will reach other countries. We do not realize, for example, why the Armed Forces, that when they were called to participate in this pandemic fight, have always fully fulfilled the missions entrusted to them, have no role in the logistical dimension of this vaccination plan, where they could serve again, and well, the Country. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are at a turning point. The Portuguese are fulfilling, the government is making it difficult, but this time is to make an appeal for us to continue to comply, knowing that the government is not up to date, but that the country will be, knowing that we will all be committed to making this Christmas, being so different, unique. It is bad, but it is unique and that we can all recover our freedom, our affections, our normal life in the coming year.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u51	For an intervention by the PAN Parliamentary Group, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u52	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are once again called to vote on an absolutely exceptional situation, both from a legal point of view, and from the world as we knew it. But it is essential that we do not normalise the state of emergency and that the measures imposed in this context are absolutely proportionate, as well as the State's actions are properly planned. To this end, proposals and solutions are still needed in the legal order to give stability to the lives of Portuguese people during this period of health crisis, seeking not to question our fundamental values, the normal functioning of institutions or even democracy itself. We live at a time that continues to be all less normal and that requires a great capacity for adaptation and resilience from all. There has been a great collective effort, but obviously also a great wear and tiredness. The perspective of vaccines brings us now some sign of relief and hope, but we cannot forget that the health situation remains very real and worrying and that we now live the largest number of hospitalizations and deaths, despite the number of infected people presenting a decrease. The vaccination plan and the coverage of the entire population is not one day and it will still take several months to ensure the safety and health of all people. And if, on the one hand, we have arrived here, it is necessary to renew the state of emergency and maintain some restrictions in order to protect the health of all of us, it is also necessary to adjust the measures so that it can also assume the economic damage it has brought to our business fabric and the social problems that have arisen here. The State has an absolutely fundamental role here and has to be guaranteed. And those who do not believe in a social state or want to make it as big as possible now have their answer here, particularly in the crisis we are experiencing and which, without the intervention of the State, many companies would have to close their doors. This is a crisis that forces us to see everything and not compartmentalize it. It is a crisis that forces us to have an inter-ministerial relationship of responsibilities. However, we have seen a push for ministerial responsibilities for the ministry, and sometimes even for the authorities, as long as there is time for Community funds to come. Testimonials of situations that prove this even when, by disarticulation between guardianships, essential needs are left out, such as students attending higher education, who, under prophylactic isolation and compliance with public health measures, are confronted with changes in the payment of housing benefits or are deprived of access to food. There are many sectors, such as culture, restoration and tourism, among others, which remain affected and need a vision that guarantees their restructuring and not only an economic recovery as in the old normal. See the case of culture, which needs a structural response, not only to guarantee living conditions to artists and the sustainability of entities, but also has an essential role in social development, assuming itself as an identity vector of our country and promoting the emotional well-being of the community. at work level, there was a reduction of people in a telework situation, in an expressive tendency to return to the presence activity. However, it is still necessary to ensure that the possibility of exercising remote functions is fulfilled by the organisations, but also that the different responses required by regional and social asymmetries are taken into account. The same applies to the school. There is, however, an aspect of the renewal of the state of emergency that we cannot fail to highlight. This renewal occurs at a time of the year of holidays, conducive to family and social life, a time that, in addition to being marked by family ties and friendship, also indicates a period when some need some pause and restore their energies. But not everyone can afford to rest. It is the case of our health professionals and other professionals who are daily supporting those who need the most and ensuring essential services for all of us. We must now be able to return our gratitude for the effort and sacrifice they have made, ensuring that we will not behave in a way that broadens the admission lists of the National Health Service and that we are capable of a high sense of responsibility at the level of our individual and collective behaviors, so that no one is at risk. But also here the state cannot resign. Responsibility cannot be limited to individual behavior. on the part of the government, it is necessary not to forget what these professionals have done for all of us and to be truly capable of recognizing with concrete and fair measures such as career regulation, negotiation of wage tables review and improvement of their working conditions, as well as effectively preparing the country for what is yet to come. If there is something this crisis has taught us, it is that we need balance and responsibility in all the options we take so that we do not have to suffer more severe measures. Therefore, it is important to reiterate that also at Christmas and New Year we can live with our loved ones without putting our health at risk. in this demand balance, it is also essential that no measure leads to the isolation of whoever it is, of the most vulnerable to the elderly, and that we can respond so that no health, economic or any other crisis prevents us from having a truly solidarity society and capable of responding to the various challenges it faces.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u53	For an intervention on behalf of the Green Parliamentary Group, Mrs Mariana Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u54	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, we are called upon to discuss another renewal of the state of emergency. We are making this debate aware that we are not free from the pandemic, from the spread of COVID-19 and that the high numbers of infected people still concern us. The promise of the vaccine at the beginning of 2021 may give us confidence that we are before the principle of a solution to this nightmare, but we know that the measures we put into our routines will still be necessary for much longer. We therefore demand from the Government a campaign to raise awareness and clarify, in order to make it clear that, despite the coming of the vaccine, we will continue to be committed to the application of protection measures, because the coming of the vaccine alone will not solve the problems of the pandemic overnight. The Greens believe that problems cannot be added to the central problem, which is the pandemic. The way forward is to strengthen public services, to improve communication, to explain the health security measures that we must follow for the protection of all. It is not the state of emergency that will stop the spread of the virus, nor the imposition of shorter hours on services and trade, ending up causing large assemblies, endless rows in closed spaces so that people are entitled to make purchases of the week or even Christmas purchases. If we think, for example, that the winter months may be the most difficult, due to the flu and constipations, at least until March, we will have to take stronger measures of health safety. We must also strengthen services, to realize where propagation has the greatest incidence, to seek to respond to needs and to return minimum normality to Portuguese days, a normality in safety, with measures that we will all have to take, regardless of whether or not the state of emergency is in force. They tell us that the priority is health and that, therefore, it is justified to suspend the democratic debate. If priority is health, then the National Health Service is strengthened; doctors, nurses, diagnostic technicians, technical and operational assistants are hired; primary health care is reopened with conditions. If the priority is to defend our economy, safeguard jobs by prohibiting redundancies; increase the minimum wage, with the impact that this will have on the dynamisation of domestic demand, which is essential for the relaunch of the economy; and support, in force, small and medium-sized enterprises and individual entrepreneurs are supported. If the priority is the education of children and young people in the country, the conditions of health security in schools are guaranteed, the workers who are missing are also hired, and now they are already taking action to ensure the protection of mental health. If the priority is to return hope to Portuguese, for example, the sector that can make such a big contribution to it, which is culture, will help to ensure to its workers the conditions for working and living.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u55	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u56	But if priority is the fight against the epidemic, then the conditions of work are monitored, public transport is monitored and all measures required for the protection of workers and users are implemented; intervention is made in dwellings that have no conditions and in which large families continue to live; it acts in the homes to ensure the protection of their users and workers, so indispensable to the provision of care; free social masks are distributed to those who need them. For none of this — I repeat, for nothing! — the state of emergency is required. The Greens will therefore vote against it. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u57	For an intervention, Mr André Ventura, of the Arrival, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u58	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister : We are renewing today the state of emergency, although we are truly dealing with an economic and social pandemic. The government opens its hands and says: « See that we are doing much better than outside, where there are such restrictive measures and where the whole economy is destroyed». It is true to say that with the evil of others we can be good. But the government also says, by the voice of the Socialist Party, that all measures have been mobilized to help the economy. All but support for restoration. All except the exemption of TSU (unique social rate). All but support for management partners. All except for the risk allowance in front of the COVID, which this Parliament has had to extend. All but one vaccination plan made in time and time to save the lives of the Portuguese. All but those that were necessary. Of course, in other countries there may not be 37 000 consultations that have ceased to be carried out per day or 22 million tests that have ceased to be carried out over the past few weeks and months. Perhaps in these same countries, which did nothing good, there is no such chaotic health as we have today in Portugal. Perhaps they do not have such a serious lack of planning as it led to so many health centres being closed at a time when the Portuguese are looking for a solution, a single local solution for their health. Yes, 37 000 consultations did not exist and 22 million examinations did not take place! And the government says it has mobilized all the means and generated all the support it could have generated! This is not truly an emergency state, it is a state of chaos over a state of chaos, which is destroying the lives of the Portuguese, without planning, and the only thing they have to give to the country is a Director-General of Health who says: "Take breakfast at Christmas and so they will solve your problems". This is a problem that we will have to solve, but that is not solved with states above states or prohibitions over prohibitions. And there is something the Portuguese should know, which is the following: because a government can make so many prohibitions, define so many states of complexity, define so many states of limitation...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u59	You've outlived your time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u60	I will finish, Mr. President. Why is this government not able to make a plan to keep health centres open? That, yes, was the state of emergency that the Portuguese needed in this Christmas court.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u61	Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u62	Mr President, Mr Minister of Internal Administration, Mr State Secretary for Parliamentary Affairs, Mrs and Mrs. Members: When nine and a half months have passed since the beginning of the pandemic, we are called upon to renew for the third time the state of emergency, which, to be approved, will extend its duration in this second wave until at least two months. I remember that during the first strike we were, until the beginning of May, another one and a half months under this same exception law. In the face of all these deadlines, it was expected that the inherent accumulated experience would have taught us exactly what measures are effective, what measures can be precise and what powers are needed to take them. It should be possible, therefore, not to be here deciding, from 15 to 15 days, genuine blank checks to a government that has already proved to be incompetent in the management of the pandemic. We have told Mr President of the Republic that the presidential decree cannot be that blank check that everything allows the government, with violation of the rights and freedoms of the Portuguese. The presidential decree cannot be a proforma that repeats itself, because the rights and freedoms of the Portuguese are not a proforma. Therefore, the minimum requirement was that, in the light of what should have been learned, the powers conferred by the presidential decree, and that the Liberal Initiative always rejected excessive, would not continue to include, at least, those powers which appear in the basic wording of the decree, but which have never been, nor are they expected to be, effectively necessary. As an example, I refer to the powers that limit workers' rights, those to which the Socialist Party says it is very sensitive. This decree once again empowers the Government to mobilise anyone, but instead of restricting that power to relevant tasks, such as combating pandemics, tracings or active surveillance, it allows the government to mobilise any person at any time for any task, without providing for any duration, without providing for compensation. This is unacceptable, unnecessary, but continues in the decree. This decree also empowers the Government to limit termination of employment contracts for those in the SNS. In other words, the PS will pass a decree which provides that the State can force a person to continue working in the SNS even if it does not want to, even if it is affecting their health or personal life, even if it has another life project. This is unacceptable, unnecessary, but continues in the decree.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u63	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u64	I'm going to finish, Mr. President. It is not satisfied that the Government has not withdrawn from the decree these obvious abuses, but has still asked the President of the Republic to add one more: that of making explicit what is already the result of the law, which is the existence of disobedience in case of violation of the rules. This is unacceptable, it is unnecessary, but it is now in decree.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u65	You really have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u66	The Liberal Initiative does not accept that rights and freedoms are abrogated without justification, does not understand that it does not learn from experience, does not admit that the Portuguese are intimidated. The Liberal Initiative will continue to vote against the state of emergency.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u67	Mr Joacine Katar Moreira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u68	The fight against COVID-19 cannot neglect the fight against violence in all its forms, abuse of power, and the search for truth and justice. We need a strong state, but we need it to be strong in effective measures and to invest in the National Health and Transport Service. At the same time, we need a state that is strong in social support and access to housing. Without access to housing and without social support, no measures to combat COVID-19 will work. It is also mentioned that it was exactly during the state of emergency that we heard of the murder of Ihor Homeniuk. It was at the time when we were all very busy and the state wanted to save us that we knew that the state did not, after all, prevent a man under its responsibility from being killed. It was also in the context of the struggle with regard to the COVID that an individual murdered an actor, in Moscow, in a busy hour, without strictly any fear. Bruno Candé was the target of racism. It was also in a state of emergency that we heard of the condemnation of eight police officers from the Alfragide squad, accused of kidnapping and offensive to physical integrity. And it is still in this environment that we have been receiving, and constantly ignoring, various reports of violent police in areas where there are more ethnic-racial minorities. Is this the security state? Oh, my God! A state that shows us that it reproduces violence instead of avoiding it? Oh, my God! It is necessary to remember exactly this: there is no fight against COVID-19 without investment in a social state. in a social state and not in a security state, because we know that the social state is the only one that has the ability to safeguard us irrespective of our origins.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u69	You now have the floor, for an intervention, Mrs Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u70	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: 2020 was atypical. It was the year in which we saw each other with a pandemic; in which the children stopped being able to play together, as they always did; in which we had to stop seeing our parents or grandparents or redouble care with them to protect them. We lost people, we became afraid, some of the disease, some of the hunger, but we also showed that we are resilient. We are on the way to recovery and we must keep ourselves on it, maintaining responsibility, but without losing humanity. I take this opportunity to draw the Government's attention to two situations that require rapid intervention. The closure of schools and occupational activities centres in March and the delays in the placement of teachers of special education and therapists have contributed to greater isolation of people with disabilities and have led to an increase in the weariness of caregivers. The answers have been slow and insufficient. Schools and universities are not able to support children and young people with disabilities by ensuring distance education, leaving them more exposed to situations of discrimination. I therefore call on the Government to pay attention to the specific situation of people with disabilities and their caregivers and to take measures that guarantee the access of these children and young people to education, because we fear that, if nothing is done, this will lead to an increase in school dropout. We also learned that several children and young people who are in foster homes are not being allowed to go home at Christmas because of the potential danger that family living may represent in the return home. This despite having permission to spend holidays and even weekends with the family and nothing in the emergency state decree or in the rules of the DGS to prevent such a life. It is already difficult enough for a child to be in a foster home. Stop her from spending Christmas with her family is deeply sad. in this Christmas, there is an invitation to live the affections differently from usual, but this does not mean that love, desire for sharing and solidarity have become exhausted, rather the opposite. We are all tired of these measures, but it is important not to lower our arms. We should do so for ourselves, for our friends and family, but also as a recognition for all the efforts that have been made by health professionals.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u71	To close this discussion period, Mr. Minister of Internal Administration, Eduardo Cabrito, has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u72	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we are discussing and approving the seventh declaration of the state of emergency in almost half a century of democracy. We are in the fourth renewal of the state of emergency period, in this frame set in early November and which marks the response to that which, throughout Europe, is considered a very serious second wave, in addition to a more deadly and remarkable dimension as it affects the lives of the people, the economic activity, the future, the hope of everyone in relation to the wave that preceded it. That is why it is so important that today we renew the one who is our commitment to fighting for health, our commitment to the affirmation of fundamental freedoms and rights, which are restricted in the strict appropriate, proportionate and necessary measure to the pursuit of the greatest objective that we all want to defend: regain the normality of life, eliminate the pandemic, defend health, maintain democracy. That is why it is so important that the President of the Republic, the Assembly of the Republic — again with the viability of this declaration by more than 90 % of the Members. Members — and the Government are working together to respond to what is fundamental: to give hope to the Portuguese, to give confidence in the ability to fight to overcome this difficult time. In fact, I would like to warn you by drawing attention to the dimension of the global fight we are fighting, something like we have never lived: up to today, 75 million men and women throughout the world have been victimized by this terrible disease, of which more than 20 million since I was here, for months and a half, in the first debate to determine the new stage of the state of emergency; only in Europe, 20 million and a half of the citizens have been infected by the virus that causes COVID-19; only in Europe, we have to record, until today, about half a million deaths, which we all regret, affected by this terrible pandemic. It is in this framework that it is so decisive that we understand how much we can support the National Health Service and those who are on the front line of life defense, support the security forces, who are at the forefront of the guarantee that the state of emergency is marked by the affirmation of a pedagogical dimension and by exemplary respect for the state of democratic law. It is in this framework that, in this special period, a period of renewal of the state of emergency which includes the Christmas and New Year's seasons, we mobilize the best of our efforts so that the encouraging results we have had over the past month will not be questioned, but on the contrary, they will be consolidated. hence the sense that it has a dynamic affirmation of this period marked by respect, appealing to the responsibility of all Portuguese for the importance of what, in a family framework, in a Community framework, means the celebration of the Christmas period and absolute restriction of risk behaviors within the framework of the New Year. That is why we can say that in Portugal the state of emergency has been marked by respect for fundamental rights, religious freedom, political freedom — which has allowed the Liberal Initiative or the Communist Party to carry out its political initiatives with greater responsibility and decision-making — by affirming respect for the most fragile and by the way in which, as the Secretary-General of the United Nations has stressed this week, Portugal has distinguished the difference by extraordinarily regularizing the rights of more than 200 000 foreign citizens who work or study here, showing a sign of solidarity and priority to the inclusion of migrants. That is why, in a state of emergency, the rule of law works in respect of democratic freedoms and in an effective way how, by applying the rules of that rule of law, it will punish criminals who killed Ihor Homeniuk or those who were responsible for the death of a police officer last weekend, when it defended women's freedom and fought domestic violence. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is why we must now face this next fortnight mobilized with the good results that this period clearly points to us. During these three fortnights of emergency, we managed to reduce by about half the incidence level per 100 000 inhabitants, from close to 1000 cases at national level to the 534 cases that even occur today. This does not allow us to rest, but, out of respect for those who have lost their lives, out of respect for the efforts of health professionals, requires us to mobilize our efforts even more. That is why, at this difficult time, until January 7, we cannot waste anything, especially when a horizon of hope begins to mark our path: the value of the R, the indicator of transmissibility, also during this period of the state of emergency, has become less than 1, meaning that each new infected has a potential propagation equal to less than one person, and the number of active cases, i.e. of citizens in prophylactic isolation, has dropped about 20 000 over these three fifteen years, a peak of 88 000 active cases for the 69 000 registered today. Therefore, it is also important that there is no doubt about the legitimacy of the actions of public entities. And we welcome the qualification as a 'crime of disobedience of the violation of the rules of prophylactic isolation', the disregard of the rules of the state of emergency, not because this measure was necessary or fundamental, since 62 cases of verification of situations of disobedience were recorded in 45 days, which is nothing in a people of 10 million, mobilized to defend health and freedom. That is why, at this time, we have the horizon of hope before us, with the approval of the new European fund framework, the so-called European fundraiser, which was approved this week by the European Parliament and which allows us to mobilize significant resources, as we have never had, for the recovery of the economy, and perhaps more important than that, because more immediately, we have the great European effort to mobilise equal rights in access to the vaccine, starting in Portugal, as announced today by the Minister of Health, already on the 27th day, the vaccination of those who are in the priority groups. It is with this mobilization of the entire Portuguese society, with this admiration for the efforts of the Portuguese people that the Assembly of the Republic will respond to the call for the initiative of the President of the Republic, and the Government will again do what it has to do, i.e. to fulfil its executive capacity, mobilize all means to the service of freedom, to the service of the health of the Portuguese, to the service of regaining a new hope in the new year.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u73	Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u74	That is why, at this special time, I wish all Members and all Members. Ladies and gentlemen, good parties, in the family and in security, with the hope of 2021 without a pandemic. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u75	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, we have much more than enough quorum, with more than 200 Members registered, we shall immediately proceed to the vote on the request for authorisation, requested by the President of the Republic, for the renewal of the state of emergency. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PSD and Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues, votes against the PCP, PEV, CH, IL and Non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstains from BE, CDS-PP and PAN.]] We move on to the third item on our agenda, which is from the discussion of draft resolution No 770 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Recommends the adoption of measures to curb the increase in structural gender inequalities triggered by the socio-economic impacts of COVID-19. To open the debate, Mrs Elza Pais has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u76	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This pandemic crisis has been devastating for all people, but it has been even more devastating for women, putting the existing structural inequalities we were fighting and making it clear that the advances achieved in recent decades are at risk of being brutally reversed if the European commitment to equality is not met. The numbers speak for themselves: in Europe, 30% have lost their jobs in service sectors and 74 million women are at risk of becoming unemployed in the informal economy. According to the International Labour Organisation, there was a loss of 400 million jobs and gender inequality has increased. The crisis made it even more evident that women are the most penalized, with lower wages, underemployment and contracts with precarious links, according to the INE (National Institute of Statistics ). They were the first to lose jobs and incomes and were brutally accentuated, for reasons related to confinement, unpaid work in the care of family support, children and dependents. They have less social protection, lower wages, more temporary work and are more easily exposed to risk of infection and transmission. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, at a time when we point out the 25 years of the Beijing Platform for Action, that great first plan of universal action for equality between men and women throughout the world, and with it the achievements achieved, which were many, and at a time when we have a 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, is the Secretary-General of the United Nations himself alerting to the dangers of backwardness, introduced by the crisis, which can harm society as a whole. António Guterres called for a new global social contract for young people to live with dignity, for women to have the same opportunities as men and for the most vulnerable, including the elderly and children, to be protected. It is therefore urgent to stop nationalism and populism that shamefully use this crisis to impose anti-democratic, sexist, homophobic and xenophobic agendas against human rights that we have just pointed out. Ladies and gentlemen. MEPs in Portugal were the first line of response to the crisis, with three very clear priorities: combating the pandemic, protecting people, supporting the economy and employment. in a short period of time, several extraordinary measures and support were put into practice, in a single collective effort to mobilize resources. It has been proven that the social state and the wager in equality, as the socialist governments have always done, are always the right answer, even more so in times of crisis. Equality policies have not only lost their urgency, as they have become even more urgent, towards a fairer and more equal Portugal. The recognition also came from the European Institute for Gender Equality, with the European Gender Equality Index referring to Portugal as one of the six European countries with the greatest gender equality in Parliament, which makes us very proud. The government has been well in anticipating a set of measures to reinforce, in the midst of a crisis, the protection responses to victims of domestic violence, which shames us and the whole world. It was also good to define extraordinary support and protection measures to support families, to combat poverty, and to protect parenthood, to value paid care work, to define an Action Plan for Digital Transition, among so many other measures that are under way, to have a more equal and fairer Portugal. With this draft resolution, we want to give more visibility—that is what we want, give more visibility—to gender issues and strengthen the urgency of women's access to education and digital infrastructure, a highly masculine sector. We want to strengthen the importance of gender balance in telework and the urgency of wagering in the care economy and in valuing unpaid work as an integral part of the sustainable development of a decent and decent society. These are simple ideas that add up and that can change the world. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u77	Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u78	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There are topics on which we can easily agree and make proclamations. This is the case with the need to eliminate gender inequality, because all the Members sitting here think — I risk — the same thing. Or, finally, almost all. Gender equality is one of these issues in which it is easy to create consensus on the problem, but it is not an issue in which it is easy to generate consensus around solutions. This draft resolution, with regard to solutions, says absolutely nothing. This applies to all five points in the draft resolution, but, as time is short, I take the example of its second point. We can then read that the government must adopt « positive stimulus measures to curb the already registered gender imbalance with regard to workers supported to stay at home with their children ». It's nice, but what are you suggesting? Oh, my God! There is indeed an unjustified gender disparity in this respect. We also think that neither women nor men can be forced to stay at home with their children. In fact, neither one nor others are legally bound to do so. But, then, what does the PS project want? Should the government force men to stay at home? Oh, my God! Or are they granted benefits to women who stay at home? Oh, my God! None of these hypotheses seem serious to us, but they would both fit in the drafting of this project, which says everything, but ends up saying nothing. With regard to the fact that the pandemic affects women more than men in many aspects, we agree, but we do not agree with this signaling of virtues that at nothing contributes to solving whatever it is. We do not oppose this draft resolution, because it is harmless, but when the PS wants to discuss the problem in depth, the Liberal Initiative here will be available to do so.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u79	I have the floor for an intervention by the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sandra Cunha.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u80	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: Women leave for any crisis already at a disadvantage. We are well aware that they are most victims of domestic and sexual violence, are more precarious, are overrepresented in the worst-paid professions and are therefore the most vulnerable to poverty and social exclusion. They are the ones who accumulate work outside the home with household chores and care for their children. They are minority in leadership positions, even in sectors where most workers are. They are underrepresented in political positions. In 46 years of democracy, we had nearly 500 ministers, but less than 40 ministers. In the authorities, we are 30% and in this Parliament we are only 40%. This is a well-known and well-documented reality. We also know that this pandemic, because of its specificities, has absolutely devastating economic and social consequences and that pre-existing structural inequalities are refigured and aggravated. Therefore, the impacts disproportionately penalize women. This analysis, which the PS draft resolution also does, is true. It is also women who are in the front line of the fight against pandemic and in the sectors most affected by the crisis, both at the health level and at the economic level: health, schools, care, trade and domestic services. The report by the International Labour Organisation shows that Portugal was the European country which has experienced greater losses in the wage mass in this period, especially for women. Between the first and second quarters of 2020, the wages of women fell 16 %, much more than for men. They were the ones most affected by telework, layoff and job loss. The draft resolution that the Socialist Party brings, as I have already said, makes this analysis very well and is a beautiful initiative, but it has some problems. First of all, she understands women as a universal category and ignores the fact that women are not all equal, being one even more penalized than others, such as those who catch crowded buses, at 6 o'clock in the morning, to come clean this building and others in the country for a poor salary, those who live in slums without living conditions, immigrants and racialized people who work so often without rights. It then proposes a series of intentions to reduce gender inequalities, but forgets the fundamental. In order to reduce gender inequalities, it was important not to have left the workers of trade, restaurants, bars, culture and informal workers nine months given up to their lot, or with support that, with no exception of advances and loans, were not able, as the data have now shown, to stop the loss of employment and income. It was important to have the political courage to guarantee a decent minimum wage in this country, which would not allow any worker to fall into poverty. As one of the authors of the report of the International Labour Organisation said, « proper minimum wages can protect workers and workers from low wages and reduce inequalities ». It seems obvious to me. The Left Block will vote in favour of this project, because the intention is good, but it is important to make it clear that reducing gender inequalities aggravated by such a crisis is not achieved with intentions, but with action, by ensuring work and wages, by taking people out of poverty and by not letting any more fall into it. The PS of Parliament may even have this intention. It was good that the government's PS also had it. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u81	Mr Lina Lopes of the PSD Parliamentary Group has now spoken for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u82	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Mrs Elza Pais, the draft resolution she presented to us can be divided into two parts, with them a preamble and a final section with the request for measures to the Government. These two sides contrast each other in a way that neither a giant nor a dwarf were able to contrast. The preamble is enthusiastic and eloquent in the listing of past initiatives, all prior to the COVID-19 pandemic. These are measures which, in fact, in most cases, have not even been fully implemented or even evaluated and which have nothing to do with the current pandemic situation, contrary to what the draft resolution has to say. Concrete with examples: Programme 3 in Line was launched in 2018 and we are waiting until today to tell us what has been done with this programme; the project « Engineers for one day », which aims to bring younger women into the field of technology, particularly in the area of digitisation, Mrs. Members, date 2017 and, according to the data we have and which are also referred to in the draft resolution, values are not very encouraging, and in 2018 the number of women graduates in these areas has been lowered; the working group called the Pact for Conciliation was established in 2019, as part of social dialogue. During the COVID-19 pandemic, the working group simply did not meet. So we don't know their results. Strengthening the protection of parenthood did not come from this working group, but from social consultation, and date of 2017, during the discussion of the agenda for equality, that is, long before the pandemic. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, nothing has to do with the current situation. in this majestic preamble, there are so many self-certifications and self-congratulation with past initiatives that, in reading it, we can not fail to create some expectation regarding the end, where we expected to find concrete proposals. But when we got to the proposals, we took a bucket of cold water. What a disappointment, Your Honor! Nothing concrete is proposed, nothing is specified. In fact, in some cases it seems that the honourable Member is presenting proposals to a government that is not of its own party, such is the lack of knowledge that reveals what the Government is doing. Let me put it into practice and listen: in relation to measures Nos 1 and 4 of the draft resolution, which concern the recognition and appreciation of the work of caregivers and investment in the care economy, Mrs Deputy, the Government has undertaken to identify the measures to strengthen these workers and has done nothing. The government has committed itself to implementing pilot projects in 30 municipalities, but has delayed implementation, with losses to all caregivers. With the confinement, the partial informal caregivers went to all-time informal caregivers and the government does not support them. The government has every condition to do so. I wonder why you didn't. Are you waiting for the PS draft resolution to force you to do what you promised to do? Oh, my God! Excuse me, Mrs. Deputy, but this looks like a fun maneuver. I advise you even to speak to the Minister of Labour of your Government. Perhaps it is more effective than presenting a draft resolution asking the Government to do what he himself says he wants to do, but he does not. With regard to measure 2, which concerns the adoption of incentives to curb gender imbalance in support of children, as 80 % of workers at home with children are women, if the PS wants less than 30 % of women and more than 30 % of men to support children, it is good to implement measures in this regard. The mere proclamation of intentions will not alter the final outcome at all. Question, ladies and gentlemen. Members, what concrete measures does the PS suggest in this area, above all, to minimize the impact of COVID-19 on the worsening of gender imbalance? After all, is this not the purpose of the draft resolution? Action No 3: promoting gender equality in the use of telework. You definitely do not want to speak to the Minister of Labour of your Government. So you don't know that the government is preparing the Green Paper on the Future of Work project, which is currently under discussion in the context of social dialogue? Instead of presenting a draft resolution in the Assembly of the Republic, the honourable Member should urge the Minister of Labour to consider gender balance as one of the central themes of her Green Paper. Mrs. Members of the Socialist Party, do you intend to convince the Minister of Labour to do so? Action No 5 : allocate some of the 500 billion of the instrument of recovery and resilience to the promotion of a greater number of women in the process of digital and green transition. I should like to ask for millions here and there, as the government likes to do, it is no longer very serious, it is still worse to demand part of the cake without at least realizing the actions that are intended to be financed. Finally, as I said, the document begins with enthusiasm and ends with amorphous and shamefulness. Let me also point out that there are no references to the social sector. The third sector is fundamental, even replacing the state in support of families. And today, many families are in extreme states of poverty. Mrs. Members, enough ambiguities and generalities. It is time to create projects with measures that truly support families, children, young people, women and men, under the penalty of becoming an unsustainable country.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u83	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u84	I shall conclude, Mr President. They can count on the PSD for a real integrated policy, for equal opportunities between women and men. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u85	Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, of the PAN, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u86	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: By welcoming this initiative, of course, we cannot fail to follow a path of concern, in order to transform words into action. Despite the Constitution itself of the Portuguese Republic to safeguard that we are all born free and equal in rights, the truth is that there are many women and girls in this country who still do not have the same starting point and who suffer in fact with the enormous gap and gap between gender equality that continues to mark Portugal. in this respect, we must not fail to point out that COVID-19 is, in fact, a problem that can also aggravate this gap in gender equality. The United Nations report itself has already alerted to the risk of this health crisis being able to reverse the achievements achieved so far on women's rights around the world — Portugal is not immune — and this gap is aggravated. The Secretary-General of the United Nations ( United Nations ) has already stated that 60 % of women working in the informal economy have been affected by this crisis, which is, as a rule, already structurally, in lower wages, in greater uncertainty, in greater deprotection and greater risk of poverty. On the other hand, it has also been women, mostly, who guarantee, in the first line, the care of others, whether they are ascending, descendants or family members in general. For this reason, they have been more exposed to the loss of work, to the non-maintenance of their job, with higher personal costs of time and health. In fact, this global crisis is disproportionately helping to increase the loss of jobs for women and many more will still be lost. But if, on the one hand, it is women who, above all, ensure the well-being and health of their own, they are also those who, in this health crisis, continue to be victims of contexts of domestic violence, exploitation and other forms of violence that call into question their freedom and well-being. In our country, violence, for example, in intimate relations, reaches one in three women. We cannot, as a society, continue to accept that human relations, whatever they are, are supported in practices of aggression and violence. However, during the pandemic, there were many services that were closed and could not intervene with women and girls, such as CPCJs (protection committees for children and young people) and social workers, and in fact cannot give a more effective response to these contexts. Since this is a structural issue, which is not resolved by remedial measures but by social and cultural changes, in which violence must always be accompanied by a clear red line, it is important that we invest in the means that our country needs to combat this scourge. in this sense and in the sense of the commitments made by either Portugal or within the European Union, such as the strategy for equality between men and women, which must be firm and ensure changes, I would like to ask you, Mrs Deputy, when the government will be more ambitious in these matters and move from words to action. Despite the goodness of this initiative, the cycles of violence and the worsening of inequalities must indeed be interrupted. This is only done with specific measures and with investment. It is therefore incomprehensible that, at times like that of the State budget, it is clear that the PS Parliamentary Group does not follow measures specifically aimed at supporting non-governmental organisations on the ground, the tertiary sector, which has an absolutely fundamental role, or the institutions that continue to host girls and young people, so that we cannot call into question a concept that is already very fragile in our democracy, the concept of equality and freedom.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u87	You have the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the CDS-PP, Mr João Pinho de Almeida.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u88	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There are two aspects which bring us closer to the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group on this matter and two which, indisputably, distance us. The first aspect that approaches us is real knowledge of what is the brutal difference that still exists in Portugal for women and men in the professional context and in the family context. The second aspect that approaches us is the motivation to change this reality and to promote public policies that alter that reality. But there are two aspects that go very far away from us. One is violence in language, which is absolutely unnecessary, and we do not realize that advantage can bring either to the cause or to the solution of the problems that exist. Then they are the consequences of the proposals, because this project is as well-intentioned as inconsequential. If all the objectives of the Socialist Party were to be achieved, there would be a very positive development in this area, but if all the proposals of the Socialist Party were to be implemented, nothing would happen. So that's the big difference! This is a project in which the implementation of proposals is absolutely frustrating of all the intentions that have based it on. So when we say we agree with the assessment of reality, obviously the pandemic has aggravated this reality. When we see the official indicators and the 80% of the beneficiaries of exceptional support for families aimed at parents who needed to stay at home to accompany school-age children, we realize that there is a big difference between the mother's role in monitoring children and the father's role. When we see, for example, another relevant indicator showing that 90, 3 % of workers in social action activities are women and 78, 7 % of workers in health activities are women, we know that, obviously, there is much greater pressure on workers in the social sector and on workers in the health sector is fully reflected in women and men. Thus, the reconciliation measures between professional and family life and which can promote this balance are welcome, as welcome as the intentions, only more effective. Therefore, we do not understand that the Socialist Party, with other left-wing parties, has in the past led concrete proposals which the CDS here brought, for example in the context of telework, in the form of draft law and not draft resolution, so that the realization of telework was not itself aggravating of such situations but could allow up to the inversion of this logic. We regret that the Socialist Party, which was against this proposal this time, is now presenting a set of intentions that does not come true with a substantial change in reality.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u89	It is the time of the PCP Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Alma Rivera has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u90	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : of all the problems and solutions contained in the recommendations that the PS makes here — most of them correct — many of them, if not all, did not have practical consequences because, at various times, and it is not right now, the PS, the PS, the CDS, now accompanied by its successors, do not want and do not want. Even at the level of exposure of reasons nothing more than to say that gender inequalities are accentuated by the crisis, particularly because there are more women in support of the family or in layoff, both with significant income losses. Only that the CFP proposed the payment of support for the family and layoff to 100 %, there are many months already, and the proposal has been rejected. It's only now that we've got it. But let us look at point-by-point, because this equality does not go hand in hand with generality, we need to look at the concrete. It is proposed that care be recognised and valued — nothing more certain — and in two dimensions. On the one hand, it is necessary to guarantee informal caregivers conditions for the care of the dependent person; only in this way, the caregivers themselves, in their majority women, can match care with their personal and professional life. On the other hand, in social support areas, as has been said, in child support equipment, the elderly and people with disabilities, the overwhelming majority of workers are women. The recognition also goes through the valuation of its wages, from the very beginning the national minimum wage, which is the most practiced in the sector and that the PCP also proposed to increase, but that the PS, PSD, CDS and its successors did not want. Then, when we talk about positive incentives to stop the fact that workers supported for assistance to children are in the overwhelming majority women — 80 % — and we can see the same trend towards telework, it is necessary to realize that it is women who mostly stay at home because it continues to be cheaper than they are, it is cheaper for the family and it is more convenient for them. I would also like to say that telework, which is not a solution for all evils, is being used simultaneously to close public services, the same services that we all agree we need to strengthen for prevention and for combating domestic violence, for example. On the other hand, in the initial phase of the COVID, with the schools and closed institutions, we proposed that a clear separation be made between « telework» and « child care », so that children do not lose the right to care if one of the parents is in telework, because the compatibility of the work, even at home, and the assistance to the family, is false. We cannot confuse the two situations because one is, first, harming the child and, secondly, causing a brutal burden on one who has both tasks. The proposal from the CFP was not welcomed by the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen! at another point, we talk about investment in the care economy. We are talking here about social rights, access to spaces for children's growth and development, such as day care centers, whose freeness is necessary to extend to all children, and a public network that responds to needs. The same applies to the elderly and their right to good care, whether home or home, and the State must assume its responsibilities. And if today there are more than 56 000 children who will be entitled to free daycare is by the proposal and insistence of the PCP, it is not by work and grace of the PS, PSD, CDS and its companions! Mrs. Members, there is a fundamental law, which is the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, which prohibits any kind of discrimination. It is done to protect women and the rights of motherhood and paternity, to combat precariousness and low wages that put women in a situation of vulnerability and that especially affects them. It is this lack of protection and supervision that allows for more unemployment in women than in men, but when it was to prohibit redundancies to the COVID blight or give executive powers to the ACT (Working Conditions Authority), women could not count on either PS, PSD, CDS or any party on their right. There is no possibility of articulating professional, personal and family life, as it is said here, if there is no change, if there is no reduction in working hours and a fight against the abuse of night work and shift work and all abuses committed against women. It is not an illusion to think that, by keeping everything as it is, issues such as domestic violence will be changed, which has increased in recent times, although silent, or as prejudice and discrimination. They assume responsibilities and options for women rather than for economic interests. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u91	Mrs Mariana Silva of the Greens Ecologist Party now speaks.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u92	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Greens consider it necessary to promote discussion on structural gender inequalities, which is now also triggered by the socio-economic impacts of COVID-19. This discussion helps to change mentalities, which must take place in education for equality and respect for human rights. The path to equality must be taken naturally, with fundamental measures, in which the central element will not only be what the PS proposes to us today, without wanting to devalue what is recommended. However, we believe that we are at a time when it is necessary to work on concrete changes for the future. We cannot fail to note the absence of more concrete measures that value the role of women in society, so this project can only be a kind of deliberation to relieve good souls. If what was intended was to promote equality in the exercise of civil and even political rights — the PS has already brought this discussion here — and non-discrimination based on sex, we should be discussing the application of concrete measures that allow everyone to participate and the conquest of rights. To this end, it is necessary to ensure a free network of public day care centres, to combat the precariousness of men and women, to increase wages so as to ensure everyone, and particularly women, conditions to live their lives fully. And when we read in this PS legislative initiative that one of the recommendations goes through gender balance in the use of telework, we consider it to be a fallacy that looks at telework as the ideal solution to halt the pandemic. We know that an important part of the work in industry, agriculture, trade, restoration cannot be done in telework, and to worsen this is that we are talking, almost always, of precarious work, where wages are lower and, therefore, where there is more inequality, more workload and greater difficulty in spending time for the family. Does the telework that the PS here defends is to work and at the same time have to take care of the home, the children and the elderly, when the social responses are fragile and non-existent? I remind you that promoting women's equality is not changing the law of work, as the PS has done, to facilitate the introduction of group-hour banks, deregulation of the lives of women and men, creating numerous barriers. And this is happening particularly in sectors with a high number of female labour. In the middle of the 21st century, the pandemic reveals what we already knew, that gender inequalities get worse and that women are still discriminated against because they are women, and this is visible in the most basic right, which is to have a job. And it is not only in the report launched by the United Nations that we know the impact of the socio-economic measures of COVID-19 on women. Let us look at unemployment figures in all districts, which clearly tell us that the number of unemployed women today is much greater than that of men. Not forgetting that precariousness, low wages...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u93	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u94	I'm really finishing up, Mr. President. We should not forget that precariousness and low wages are factors that weaken women's dependence and limit their ability to take their dreams and projects into their hands, without having to be condemned to the birth that society imposes on them. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u95	You have the floor, Mr Ventura, for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u96	Mr President, Mrs Alma Rivera, first of all, the Arrival and the Liberal Initiative have names, they are neither successors nor successors.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u97	They're products!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u98	...no companions, no substitutes. As the CFP would not like you to say that there is the successor of the Soviet Committee or the successor of Venezuela, I certainly would not, and therefore there are names: they are called Arrival and Liberal Initiative, if they respect them. Even because they may soon have more votes than their parliamentary group. Mrs Elza Pais, do you not understand how she brings to this House a project based on such a laudable tone that she has never seen in Portugal — "we have done this, we have done that" — and now what do they present? Nothing! This is what this project brings. Mr President, there is a report by the International Labour Organisation which, as it is said, makes it clear that there is a reduction of 16 % in women's wages. But we don't stay here! This in a context where the average was 8 %. Portugal has therefore been much worse than the other countries of the European Union and members of the International Labour Organisation. That's right, Mrs. Member! And I tell you more: Mrs Deputies, who likes to quote the European Committee on Social Rights so much — in all committees and all the plenary members to hear of this committee — should know that the same Committee said a month and a half ago that Portugal is one of the most non-compliance countries with the right to equal pay between men and women.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u99	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u100	I shall conclude, Mr President. That is why you do not understand, Mrs Deputies, how can you be able to bring here a matter in which the government has failed in so little time and so many, as is the case with the rights it wants to bring here. And your project that adds is absolutely nothing!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u101	Mrs Elza Pais spoke for an intervention by the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u102	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I leave a final note to thank your speeches, your comments and, above all, the political commitment, even with some difference, to this area, which is central to the progress we need to make. It is a file that is not easy, it is a difficult file, and if we are not in a convergence attitude the advances do not come true, and we must continue to do them. Mrs Lina Lopes, it is probably not recalled — I thought she knew — that wage inequalities will decrease with the increase in the national minimum wage, with the increase in unemployment benefit, with a new social benefit, all in progress. [[Protests from PSD MP Lina Lopes.]] But I also thought that I knew, as a unionist, that negotiation in social dialogue takes time. [[Protests from PSD MP Lina Lopes.]] I thought you knew, as a unionist... and I ask your parliamentary group why you didn't make any proposals — zero! — like the CDS, now in the proposals for amendments to the State budget. Zero! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests from PSD MP Lina Lopes.]] If you want to contribute, come play, don't stay in your chapel! [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP João Pinho de Almeida.]] I appreciate your words, your contributions. The cross-sectionality, Mrs Sandra Cunha, of course, is in the Government Programme. It is not specified here in a particular way, but it is in all government policies. I want to say, therefore, that our convergence is essential for the construction of a more dignified and decent society, that it is not achieved without equal opportunity between men and women. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u103	You have the floor to close the debate, Mrs Edite Estrela, of the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u104	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Women earn less than men, doing the same job. Low wages mean lower pensions. The increase in minimum wage is therefore a good measure to help combat poverty in women. Women do three times more unpaid domestic work than men. Therefore, many women are forced to choose between being mothers or progressing in their careers. Although there are more women graduates and doctors than men, they rarely participate in political, financial or economic decision-making. Women face greater risk of unemployment and more obstacles to access to decent jobs. With the spread of artificial intelligence and robotics, it is women who run the greatest risk of losing their jobs. Women are the main victims of domestic violence and digital technologies represent new spaces of violence. According to a UN study, 73% of women worldwide have already suffered online violence. Cristina Ferreira did well by drawing attention to the hate speech against women on social networks.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u105	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u106	I was just missing now!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u107	If before the situation was very unequal and unfair for the female part of society, with the pandemic it all got worse. The pandemic crisis has affected everyone but, as the United Nations Secretary-General Antonio Guterres says, has had a greater impact on the weakest, including women. Women who were at the forefront of the struggle against the pandemic; women who had to reconcile telework with domestic work and with school support for children; women who saw their wages reduced and lost their jobs; women victims of domestic violence, who were confined to the attacker. This pandemic does not affect everyone in the same way. Any pandemic tends to accentuate regional asymmetries and socio-economic inequalities. The UN report reveals that around 60 % of women worldwide are now « earning less, saving less and at greater risk of falling into poverty ». We must continue to improve laws and policies. Gender equality, in addition to being a human rights issue, is an essential condition for achieving the goals of growth, employment and social cohesion. This is a problem for everyone and not just for women. It is not acceptable for women to continue working the same number of hours as men at work and triple in the house.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u108	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u109	I'm done now, Mr. President. It is unfair and unconstitutional that women earn less than men. Positive stimulus measures are therefore needed to prevent the gender imbalance aggravated by the COVID-19 pandemic, as we have presented here. It is a matter of rights, not privileges. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u110	We have reached the end of this point. of the fourth item on our agenda is the assessment of Decree-Law No 92 / 2020 of 23 October amending the general waste management regime[ Parliamentary assessments No 32 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ), 34 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) and 35 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) ]. I ask Vice-President Antonio Filipe to replace me, with my thanks and a hug for all. [[At this moment, he took the presidency of Vice-President Antonio Filipe.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u111	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. Let us then turn to Decree-Law No 92 / 2020 of 23 October. The PSD was the party that presented the first of the parliamentary assessments under discussion, Parliamentary Assessment No. 32 / XIV / 2. for an intervention, Mr Bruno Coimbra.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u112	Mr President, Mrs State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members: Waste, its management and the sector in which they are inserted are matters of vital importance to the quality of life of the population. The Annual Urban Waste Report, published this year by APA (Portuguese Environment Agency) shows, unequivocally, the reality we face: we produce more waste, we favour landfill deposition, we reverse the existing trend until 2014 and we find ourselves increasingly distant from the defined targets. We are talking about a sector in which the government has announced much but almost nothing done, where, over the past five years, we have increased the import of landfill waste, where, still recently, hazardous waste has been buried with urban waste, having arrived at this House complaints and complaints from the most diverse points in the country — tens, only in the last half year. Almost three months ago we were confronted with the publication of Decree-Law No 92 / 2020 of 23 October determining the duplication of the waste management rate from January next year. The government, which over recent years has not created conditions for the necessary investments to be realized, once again limits its environmental policy to more taxes, more taxes, more wastes on citizens and municipalities. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this is not how structural changes are promoted or why people and organizations are motivated to act differently. If the government did not do what needed to be done, neither the families nor the municipalities should be supported by their dismissals. The government is going this way not to achieve Portugal's goals but to fatten an environmental fund for dubious management. The increase in TGR (residue management rate) — which is necessary! — it must be scaled up to 2025 so that until then the Government will fulfil its role and ensure conditions for investments to enable systems to operate better, increase separation and valuation, meet targets and ensure the reduction of what is going to land. Otherwise, this abrupt increase not only will not produce the desired results as it will risk a retrogression on the path traveled up here. We know that the Socialist Party denies reality and prefers to insult local power, in no way responsible for the sad state to which we have arrived. We recall that they said in this plenary that the autarchs—and I quote— "as opposed to investing in collection and treatment systems, they have been spending and making investments in superfluous things. Do not keep on seeking. ” « Camera presidents who invest in parties and parties, and who did not do what they had to do», Mr Hugo Pires of the Socialist Party said, on this subject, in the recent discussion of the Budget. We do not know whether the Socialist Party referred to the metropolitan areas of Lisbon or Porto, or even to the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities, all led by socialist authors who gave public notice of the repudiation and opposition to this government decree and this apathy in government action. But we know that it is the Minister of the Environment and the Socialist Climate Action who is not fulfilling his role and the government that acts without responsibility. Madam Secretary of State, worse than presenting a vertiginous rise of the TGR in a tear is only to do so in a bad-to-follow manner. This decree, made in a hurry, was immediately supplemented by Decree-Law No 102 - D of 10 December approving the general waste management regime, the legal regime for landfilling waste and amending the regime for the management of specific waste flows, transposing Directives ( EU ) 2018 / 849, 2018 / 850, 2018 / 851 and 2018 / 852, and repealing the general waste management regime on which the Decree we are assessing today is concerned. Why so fast, Minister? Why only 14 days of public consultation and half a dozen weeks to publish a fundamental decree with 300 pages transposing four European directives? Why is the decree published without the public consultation report? Why so quickly if the first effective measure resulting from this decree-law only takes effect from July next year? How is it that the Minister of the Environment with the greatest length of time in office only reminded of changes in waste policies within a few weeks of the beginning of the Portuguese Presidency of the European Union? Do you want to hide the inertia and apathy of recent years and give the idea to Brussels that you have done something? Is it so necessary to deceive Brussels and to remedy the rush? Oh, my God! Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the parliamentary assessment of this Decree-Law No 102 - D / 2020 of 10 December is obviously required, which completes this legislative giga-game of the Government. The PSD Parliamentary Group will present the request today for this purpose! In the medium, in the Budget and now with this new Decree-Law No 102 - D / 2020 of 10 December, the Minister fulfills the dream of extorting regulatory powers from ERSAR ( Regulatory Authority for Water and Waste Services ), giving the Government more power to manage a sector that needs so much transparency, the transparency that this decree-law does not have. In the PSD, we defend a regulated system in which the public interest is ensured by an independent regulator. We are the investment in systems, the awareness of the population and the involvement of municipalities and citizens. We do not accept legitimizing the destruction of the existing waste management systems or accompanying a government that decides not to listen to anyone and to move ahead without rule and direction. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u113	To present Parliamentary assessment No 34 / XIV / 2. a, from the PCP, has the floor of Mrs Paula Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u114	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : The CFP has requested Parliamentary review of the diploma amending the general waste management regime because this diploma is based on a misconception regarding the options of environmental protection policies. Focusing environmental protection policies on a rate and tariff logic does not only solve any problem as it is deeply penalizing for populations, especially for populations with lower incomes. Let's see: this diploma, in concrete, is the duplication of the waste management rate from 11 € / t to 22 € / t, to be applied from January 2021. On this rate, it is important to say the following: firstly, the duplication of the value of this rate, as we have already mentioned, negatively affects municipalities and populations, since ERSAR obliges the impact of these values on invoicing to populations. Secondly, this rate had already doubled its value in the years 2015 and 2020, and the proposal now doubles from 2020 to 2021. Furthermore, thirdly, the government's perspective and which has now been published in the new decree on the general waste management regime is that this rate goes to 35 €/t in 2025. We will have the opportunity to appreciate this diploma, but we cannot fail to say the following: the Government puts in public discussion a certificate on waste with more than 400 pages, public discussion for a period of 15 days, having a request from the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities to extend this process of public discussion, and not only is this request not met as is published a decree law on 10 December, I decree that, above all, what it advocates, in addition to other matters that we can deepen, is the continuation of this path, the increase in rates, to penalize municipalities and the population. Fourthly, the product of the collection of this waste rate has never been used to invest in the quality and rationality of waste management. On the contrary, this is a rate which is just such a source of central government services financing, it is just a source of revenue from the central government. It is also important to bear in mind that the existing waste model in our country does not allow the populations or municipalities to choose where the waste will be deposited and how they will be treated. The municipalities are obliged to deposit in their systems. Moreover, these multi-municipal systems were an imposition on the authorities themselves. Moreover, the company that owned most of the capital of these multi-municipal systems, the EGF ( General Development Company ), which was managed by the State, is now privatized, and was privatized against the will of the municipalities, privatization that has not yet been reverted. Therefore, on these matters, I believe that it is quite clear that this is an option which, from an environmental point of view, does not add anything — in fact, as the reality shows in recent years that the increase in the rate of waste management has not contributed to the reduction of landfill — and that, in practice, it has the only objective to burden populations, which the CFP cannot follow. The PS, PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN, CH, and IL prevented the revocation of this diploma. We now have the opportunity to do so. We now have the opportunity and the time to prevent on 1 January 2021 from being the penalized populations because there is no necessary investment by the Government in waste materials. What the CFP brings to the debate is, in fact, the repeal of this diploma. It is that environmental problems are not solved against people, environmental policies are not resolved by taxing populations, nor by increasing their turnover. Environmental policies are resolved by investment, investment in solutions that solve and allow for a qualitative leap in this area.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u115	To present Parliamentary Assessment No 35 / XIV / 2. a, from BE, has the floor Mr Nelson Peralta.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u116	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are discussing today the rate of waste management, i.e. the value that entities pay for the waste referred to for environmentally negative solutions, including landfill or incineration. The Left Block presented this parliamentary assessment because, considering that the TGR should have a higher value, it acknowledges that, in carrying out this increase during the pandemic situation, there is no possibility of making the changes that are necessary in the sector. Improvements, including the implementation of new waste collection and separation models, can hardly be initiated with quality and safety in a pandemic situation. To worsen, several investments should have already been made and were not. We therefore put forward three proposals. Of course, a moratorium on increased TGR, so that the same occurs only after the effects of the pandemic on the waste sector. We also propose that 30% of the TGR's words be allocated directly to the authorities—in fact, this measure is quite important, because the authorities are obliged to implement by 2023 a system and a flow of bioresidues. It is also said that this flow of bioresidues will greatly reduce landfill deposition and thereby reduce the overall value of TGR to be paid. Finally, we propose that a transparency measure be implemented, that all TGR-based expenditure and investments be presented in a public report. Our goal is to introduce systemic improvements, ensuring the reduction and recovery of waste. These are our proposals, which we hope will be able to take a path in the field of expertise. But we must look at the waste sector that does not all — I repeat, all! — the environmental objectives to which you are bound. The low value of TGR is one of the problems. In Portugal, this value is €11, when, in general, the countries of the European Union, is €80. This situation and the absence of rules contributed to a transformation of the economic structure of the sector. Portugal became Europe's garbage bin, but not only because Nigeria and Oman also exported waste to Portugal because it was cheap. But let's look at other examples. Most of the urban solid waste companies are putting more waste on the ground. Now, this has a hidden cost: we're going to have to build landings before we're expected. The Cementeira de Alhandra, for example, is changing its ovens to burn more and to make its big business co-incineration, and has already declared that if there are not enough waste to burn in the cement there will be no problem, because it will import 60 % of the waste. Let's look at Valorsul. Valorsul has its main profits in the production of electricity from waste burning: EUR 31 million, 55% of its total revenue. However, this waste burning is financially unsustainable. Thus, if it was previously subsidised directly through an extra which the entire population paid in the electricity tariff, now, in the face of the industry's opposition to this system, the government changed the rule and became the Environmental Fund to directly finance this waste burning. Well, we have the Environment Fund to fund something that is environmentally negative. It seems ironic, but it's not, it's the essence of the sector. Whatever happens, he always leaves the jackpot at Mota-Engil. And the worse its performance, the greater its yields. The policy in force for the sector has been an environmental disaster and the government insists on the way to delivering public policies to the market. Last day 10, the Government handed over the definition of packaging re-use targets to producer companies, in particular to Coca-Cola. It's good to see what the outcome will be. I therefore announce from now on that the Left Block will present a parliamentary assessment of the general waste management law. I conclude by saying the following: the privatisation of the EGF, during the Rabbit Step Government, was a colossal mistake and it is urgent to correct it. Privatization had a strong negative impact on the finances of the authorities, but also on the management of the environment in Portugal. There is no doubt, the market is failing people. Yes, we need a public company, and that's the way we're going to go. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u117	For an intervention, Mr Hugo Pires of the PS now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u118	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Global warming is out of control. The rise of sea level is in sight of everyone; the oceans are increasingly a garbage dump; the disappearance of species across the globe is a reality; extreme events occur, such as, for example, the fires that we have already suffered in Portugal; the extreme drought, freezing or flooding is a little evidence everywhere; the quality of the air that we breathe, the water that we drink and the food that we eat are increasingly a concern. That is why I have just stated that the fight against climate change should demand of all Members and parties of this House more ambition and courage: the ambition to leave a better planet to future generations; the ambition to implement public policies that go through this scourge; the ambition to have serious goals and objectives, which are even to meet. But to achieve this ambition, you need to have courage. Courage to face those who, making waste their business, resist change; courage to face many «Olds of the Rest », for whom sustainable development is a matter of lesser importance; courage to say no to politicians who always play in the short term and in electoral counterparts in the subsequent elections. This debate is about the same: ambition and courage to do what needs to be done. With the exception of the CFP, which normally does not hide and says what it thinks, plus no party has said, taxively, that it is against the increase in the waste management rate proposed by the Socialist Party. If the audience is pro-environment, the PSD will say one thing, if the audience is pro-interests other than those of the environment, it will always say its opposite, to always be well in photography. In fact, in the debate of the State Budget I had the opportunity to say that the PSD problem was the small ambition and the slowness with which I want to combat climate change, not realizing that it is a time race. The Left Block is in a different situation. In fact, a year ago, it was the Block itself that proposed the increase of the waste rate to 20 €/ t. Although they are in favour, they say that there should be more transparency in respect of revenue raised and investment made through that same revenue. We totally agree. As regards the percentage of TGR revenues to be invested in improving the system, we also agree and I see that the Block has evolved to 30 % of the percentage of revenue to be invested in management systems and that must be given to the authorities, provided that this investment is in the area of waste. Green taxation is one of the main tools to achieve efficient resource management, to combat pollution, to increase taxation on products and services with worst environmental performance and to identify mechanisms that minimize the use of disposable and non-reusable materials. Green taxation intends to progressively transfer the tax burden on labour to pollution and the intensive use of resources. That is the spirit of this proposal. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members, if we look at Spain, the government has increased the TGR to €40 / t ; if we look at the European average, the value is about €80 / t ; if we look at Portugal, the value will go from €11 to €22 / t. What does that mean? First, even with the €22 / t, Portugal remains a very desirable market for operators from other countries to deposit here the garbage they produce there. Secondly, the waste imported from other countries is, for many Portuguese operators, their golden egg chicken. Thirdly, if everything goes on as it is, we will not meet the goals we have proposed to achieve carbon neutrality. The faster this reform is done, the less waste will land, the less fee the municipalities will pay, the lower the bill of water on the family account and the cleaner and sustainable our country will be. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there's no time to waste. It is as possible to stop the wind with your hands as it stops global warming and climate changes with no ambition and courage. Today, it was once again proved that the PS does not receive lessons from anyone in combating climate change and environmental policy. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u119	Mrs Mariana Silva of the ENP has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u120	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The parliamentary assessments we are discussing today concerning Decree-Law No 92 / 2020, which amends the general waste management regime, bring to the discussion the issue of waste reduction and the possibility of meeting the objectives assumed. The Greens believe that the reduction in landfill waste is a necessary objective, because landfills do not involve the huge amount of waste we produce. And we must not fail to point out that this diploma can be read, and I quote, that « In recent years, there has been a trend of sharp increase in the entry of waste for disposal at landfill which is urgently inverted, constituting the increase in the amount to be paid as a waste management rate an appropriate instrument to discourage such entries». Now, the upstream problem is what successive governments always refuse to solve, the question of the huge amount of waste production, and when the ENP brought concrete solutions to the Assembly of the Republic, such as the draft law on reducing superfluous packaging waste and others, when it is necessary to make the change in origin, the PS and PSD always voted against. In other words, when solutions arise to make a very significant contribution to resolving the problem upstream, they reject that solution and "swimmed to the side". And after they prevent them from working on a de facto solution, what is proposed as if the magic solution is always that of rising rates, in this case with great damage to the authorities and to the populations. We reject this path that leads to the same ones who will end up paying another fee, at the same time being forced to bring to the commercial establishments a bunch of absolutely unnecessary packages that are intended for direct waste. Another problem that Greens identify is the imperfections of differentiated waste collection systems, where significant improvement should be made. It is recognized that many dwellings do not have deposits of differentiated waste near them, collection is not done on a regular basis and there are also no continuous awareness campaigns. We understand that it is legitimate to suspect that legislation such as Decree-Law No 92 / 2020 does not effectively serve to solve the problem of landfilling waste only serves to overload citizens, so that they pay more substantial amounts to finance the Portuguese Environment Agency, without concretely knowing where the same amount is used. The question is that there has been no political will to take serious and effective steps to implement a sustainable logic at waste level, which must necessarily go through reaching the relevance of the commitments made, even internationally, in the policy of the 3Rs: to reduce, reuse, recycle and view landfill as an end-of-line solution, that is, only after the creation of these fundamental campaigns in a waste policy is that fate will be the landfill. As we continue to run the risk that in the future we will turn our Country and our Subsoil into a monumental landfill and this Decree-Law is only another evident proof of this same: by paying we can ignore the reduction, reuse and recycling of waste because the solution is landfill.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u121	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u122	I really am concluding, Mr. President. The Greens do not give to this petition, because it would be the same as saying: "They produce waste at will because we have places to hide them". [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u123	Mr João Gonçalves Pereira, from the CDS-PP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u124	Mr President, I should like to begin by congratulating the honourable Members. State Secretaries present here and the ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are discussing Decree-Law No 92 / 2020 of 23 October amending the general waste management regime. What we have here is a diploma that has generated enormous discord and has not, as you can see in this same debate, managed to bring together any parliamentary consensus. It also has the critical and very critical voice of several municipalities. And why? Because here we have an absolutely disproportionate increase in the rate of waste. Let's see: today, you pay - it's €11 / t; from January we will go from €11 / t to €22 / t; then the good news is that from 2025 you start to pay €35/t. That is, in just five years three times the value of that same fee. And who, by the end of the day, will go out and be penalized? Clearly, it is the families, it is the companies, it is the consumers, because they are the ones who, at the end of the day, will pay and will have to bear this same bill. It is not by chance that the National Association of Municipalities and the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon have come to demand or, better, have asked the Government — we are talking, in many cases, about socialist autarchs — to put a stop to this measure. In view of this, what has the government done? The government has not heard anything or anyone, wanted to hear anything, keep yours and keep going. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, for the CDS it is absolutely clear that it is not through the increase in rates that there is a solution to lead to new behaviors—it is certainly not that way! So this reveals something that is critical in this same government, and in this specific area, that is the lack of political guidance. There is a lack of political guidance on environmental matters. And what do we have in this government? Plans and more plans, and now we're going to have a few more fees here, these fees that any citizen who looks at them perceives the exaggeration that exists here, going from €11 to €22 and then to €35. Therefore, in the view of the CDS it is necessary to reduce this same rate and to require the government to have policies with environmental impact. As has already been said — and well — in this same debate, I ask: what is the rush in this dossier? He'll only be applying later. Why is there all this urgency? It is not clear, surely it will even please Brussels, but what is true is that neither the municipalities, nor the families, nor the companies, of course, are satisfied, are calm with the increase in this rate.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u125	Mr André Silva of the NAP has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u126	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: The PSD, the PCP and the Left Block today are taking a step in the country's already fragile environmental policy, seeking to bring about a reversal in the waste management policy in Portugal with misleading arguments, on behalf of demagogy and the facilitation of local power. The country has failed all national and European targets for reducing waste production and recycling rates. For Portugal, the recycling targets for 2020 would be 50 %, but we are far away. The waste management rate is a very important instrument to discourage landfill and incineration. A balanced and fair waste management rate, such as the one currently decreed, encourages authorities to invest in serious recycling policies. What the PSD, the PCP and the Block will achieve with these initiatives is precisely the continuation of the landfill of waste and its burning, without any basis in terms of European comparison, on which this rate has an average value of 80 €, five times higher than the Portuguese rate that these parties are now diabolicizing. But more: all arguments presented so that the rate does not rise are false. What PSD and PCP say is that it is an increased cost for municipalities; we say it is not, and it is not because if municipalities fulfill their responsibilities in hierarchical waste management, they will invest in mechanisms that encourage the reduction of the production of undifferentiated waste, their correct sorting and the proper referral for recycling. by doing so, there will be less waste for landfills and incineration and the rate of waste management will fall. The increase in the rate represents only an increase in revenue for municipalities when the waste is deposited without separation, regardless of its destination. This cannot be the way to waste management in the 21st century. Moreover, it was approved in the State budget for 2021 the proposal that the Block brings us today, i.e. that 30 % of the increase in the amount of waste management is returned to the municipalities by making investments in the area of waste, rewarding once again the good performance. One more reason, therefore, for the increase in TGR not to be repealed. The problem in our country is that the concept of waste management for camera presidents is summed up in removing waste from the streets, which obviously causes visual discomfort, unwanted odors and public health problems. For many camera presidents, the fate and possible treatment of waste is absolutely irrelevant. For many camera presidents, environmental responsibility in waste management is not a priority. PSD and PCP are today the voice of this lack of awareness and environmental commitment. What PSD and PCP want to do here today is to keep Portugal as Europe's garbage bin and reward camera presidents who do not meet their responsibilities in waste management. PSD and PCP come here today to propose the perpetuation of environmental attacks in the waste sector and the maintenance of installed interests. PSD and PCP come here today to propose to Parliament that the country sweep the garbage under the carpet. And by the end of the day, Mrs. Members of the PSD and the CFP will ask citizens to be responsible and adopt good environmental practices.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u127	Mr Inês Costa, Secretary of State of the Environment, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u128	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it may not seem...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u129	Mr Secretary of State, allow me to interrupt it, but you have to address the presidency. It's regimental.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u130	I'm sorry. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It may not seem, but this discussion focuses on a fundamental aspect to ensure the country's carbon neutrality, which is the management of material resources. More than half of the greenhouse gases emitted globally are due to the extraction and processing of raw materials. So when we talk about waste, not just about one service, we talk about waste of energy and emissions, waste of materials equivalent to EUR 1000 million annually and waste in jobs, since 10 000 tonnes of waste generate a job if that destination is landfill, 36 if it is recycling and more than 200 if it is reuse. It was well over 20 years ago: it has closed down in a very low level of time; it has invested in collecting, processing and valuing a quality service for the citizen, fulfilling increasingly demanding national and Community obligations — in the last four years alone, it has been more than 260 million euros of investment in this sector. But we produce more and more waste. In total, it is 16 million tons per year, when 10 years ago it was 13 million. In urban areas, there are already more than 5 million tonnes per year above the EU average per capita production. And although there is an imperative to ensure national self-sufficiency in respect of final deposition, we cannot say that the problem is only what comes from outside: in 2018, fewer than 100 000 tonnes of foreign waste deposited on land, less than 1 % of what Portugal was producing at the time. The problem is not to take off on the separation of recyclable materials: 80 % of the waste from our homes goes to the common garbage box, which reduces the quality and potential of material recovery; after years of campaigns and environmental education in schools, we continue to put on non-packaging ecopoints—see gloves and disposable masks—reducing the potential for recycling; and the low quality of recovered materials makes recycling difficult. These effects lead to 70 % of the materials continuing to land or incineration. This puts us at risk of not meeting the collection of bioresidues in 2024, of not meeting recycling targets in 2025, and we have only 10 years to go from 58 % final landfill to 10 %. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the waste management rate is not associated with the service, but rather with material waste: it affects what is destroyed by landfill or incinerated and does not affect what is reused or recycled. It is an instrument adopted throughout Europe to make waste reduction, the separation and recycling of more qualified and more economically advantageous materials. In Portugal, this advantage is not yet clear: the average load of a family with waste management is €4 per month, below 1 % of the maximum ceiling of the average family income available, so determined by the regulator. But with these values many municipalities do not recover at least two thirds of the cost with this service. In order to realize the advantages, all costs must be explicit and linked to the material waste generated by the citizen, rather than being associated with the water consumed, and the material effectively recovered is presented as a discount on the cost of the service. This is the way that we all have to go and that the new General Waste Management Scheme is already going. And when I say « all», it is all because it is important not to forget that no re-use and recycling goal will be achieved if industry is not available to absorb national materials, and that does not depend only on municipalities, nor depends solely on environmental protection. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this year we have been accused of being Europe's waste bin. There were several protests against the expansion or opening of landfills. It was a shame the TGR was so low, when the average in the European Union was 80 €/t, and several parties proposed the increase to 20 €/t. The challenge has been accepted: since February we have been objecting new external processes for deposition into landfill of non hazardous waste waste; we have made progress with the landfill inspection and monitoring plan; we have been in line with the agreement reached in the State Budget Budget for 2020 and we have changed to TGR ; we have revised the technical rules for landfilling of non hazardous waste waste landfill; we have opened up the POSEUR EUR 18 million ( Operational Programme Sustainability and Efficiency in the Use of Resources in the Use of Resources) warning ( Operational Programme Sustainability and Efficiency in the Use of Resources) for the collection and recovery of bioresources) for the collection and recovery of bioresidues for the use of resources for the purposes of the PNI 2030 ( National Investment Investment Programme 2030 ) ; and the new GRGRGRGRGRGG ( General System of Waste Management System of Waste Management System ) to support the training and planning and planning of municipalities and are expected to divert bioresources of bioresources for the recovery; we will now be used in value; we will have a value; we have agreed, we have a value, and we have a value added, we have a value, and we have a value, and we have provided as the recycling for the recycling of the re used as a re used as a share of the re which has been as a re used as a part of the re used as a re used as a re used as a portion of the re which has been as a portion of the re which has been used as a portion of the re which has been used as a portion of re which has been used as a portion of the re which has has been used as a portion of the re which has been used as a portion of the re which has has has has has been used as a portion of the re which has been used as a portion of the re which has been used as the re of the re of the re of the re of the re used as a portion of the re for this part of the re for this part of the re of the re of the re for this part of the re of the re for the re for there . as the re was was was was was was was was as there . the re used as the re used as was the re for this part of the re for there . as there . there . the re used as the re of the rewas Do you want the Left Block more transparency in these supports? Let's say yes. To conclude, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in view of the current and short-term scenario, in view of the goals with which Portugal is committed, TGR is just one of several instruments of public policy that we are already putting in the field to reverse the verified trend. We cannot continue in this bipolarity of wanting, on one day, to close, not to expand, not to build new landings and, on the other, to demand that these solutions continue to be the most competitive in the face of reduction, reuse and recycling. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u131	Before we move on to the closing phase, given that there are still time available, I am asking the parliamentary groups or the Members. Members who still have time if they want to intervene.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u132	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u133	Mr President, the PSD still has time for the closing of the debate. You have that in mind, don't you?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u134	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u135	Mr Coimbra has the floor, then, for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u136	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is interesting to hear the Socialist Party talk here today about green taxation when you killed this mechanism! And it is also interesting to see how they constantly try to "throw sand for the eyes" of people! In fact, the PSD, as I have always said and as I recently had the opportunity to transmit, is in favour of the rise of TGR, is an important instrument. It has to be a gradual rise, as the PSD did when it was government. It has to be a gradual rise and, above all, accompanied by investments that actually allow systems to place less waste on land. That is the objective, the rest is conversation, Mr Hugo Pires.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u137	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u138	I conclude now, Mr President. In fact, what did the Socialist Party do when it reached the government? What was the fate that gave TGR's revenues? What investments have you promoted? How many notices have you opened from the Environmental Fund? Sir, there is no politics, there is narrative, and that is why there is no result. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u139	Mr Peralta, from the Left Block, was also involved in an intervention. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u140	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I want to note that the proposal from the Left Block will fall to the specialty and I hope that there can be a way for greater transparency, so that the municipal chambers can have more money and also to ensure that this increase will not be made during the pandemic. I would also like to point out that in the Committee on the Environment there is a proposal from the Left Block for a greater generalisation of the social tariff — a creation of the Left Block — in water but also in urban solid wastes, and that the protection of the rights of populations will always have the Left Block. We are not talking about the increase in the rate for populations, we are talking about the increase in the rate to managing entities, because of their inefficiency, to ensure that they comply, and also in a more general way to various economic activities, whether in cements, whether in co-incineration, or perverse subsidies for burning waste for electricity production, which is an energy, financial and environmental inefficiency.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u141	Mr Paula Santos, from the CFP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u142	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in these few seconds that remain, I mean that it is not really the CFP that makes the instrumentalization of environmental issues, deceiving the need for investment in an environment protection policy without harming the populations. And those who here defend, as the PS, the PSD, the PAN, the Block, the increase in waste management rate must bear in mind that it will mainly harm populations and is responsible for the worsening living conditions of the populations because this increase will necessarily have an impact on their turnover. It's important to keep this in mind. We also want to tell the Secretary of State that we have brought here a very clear initiative. If the goal is to reduce superfluous waste—it is true that we want to reduce— then let's play where they are produced without need. We brought a proposal in this regard, but once again, it had the impediment of PS, PSD and CDS, which do not want to play in the interests of economic groups. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u143	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u144	It is here, yes, that is the key to this issue, the central issue with regard to environmental policies. It is that for a true policy of environment, to protect nature, it does not go there with the capitalist system, it does not go there with the protection of the interests of economic groups, but, yes, with concrete investment policies. It doesn't even go there with fees and taxes, which cost and penalize populations.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u145	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us move on to the closing stage of the debate. For an intervention, Mr Luís Leite Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u146	Mr President, Secretary of State for the Environment, Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament. Members : At the end of this parliamentary review, the conviction we have is that the reasons behind it are as urgent as possible. We, in the PSD, received a set of complaints, requests, not only from municipalities and their representative entities, but also from several system operators, from waste-related associations, through Deco (Consumer Defense), through TRATOLIXO or by municipal organizations. And the reason was the same: the government refused to dialogue with the various stakeholders in the sector on the necessary, indispensable reform that needs to be done. Mr. Secretary of State, if anyone has bipolarity in this policy is the government, which, for five years, has done absolutely nothing, nothing. It completely ignored the problems, did not contribute to its resolution, did not invest, did not support, nor did it dialogue with the various actors involved in the sector, and it arrives at this time, on the eve of the presidency of the European Union, and presents the only miraculous solution to solve the problems of reducing landfill, which was to increase the rate, double it, and already foresees that, by five years, there is still a substantial increase. It is this lack of dialogue, this indifference which the Government has shown over these years about these problems that it has to answer. And the PSD calls on the Government and this House to take the inevitable decision: to prevent an increase in this way and to create conditions for such a dialogue to be reintroduced in order for the negotiation to be made. There is no environmental policy that achieves its objectives without this negotiation, without this dialogue, without this mobilization of the various actors. So what we're asking for is exactly this. Mr Hugo Pires, what you just said about the behaviour of the autarchs is, in my view, regrettable. If there is anyone in this country who has done something about environmental policy, it is the autarchs, precisely because their government, the Government of the Socialist Party, has been lacking in many fronts. As my colleague said, the lack of policies has fuelled the debate with narratives. [[PS protests.]] No more narratives! We really want to solve this problem, but for that, we need action, so we need policies that solve the problems that the country is debating. Much more than narratives, we need, the country needs, the environment needs serious and effective policies to combat climate change. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u147	To close the debate, you have the floor of the Secretary of State for the Environment.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u148	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Two hundred and sixty million euros in the last four years — this was the national investment made in this area. It is not true that we do not dialogue with the municipalities. I myself, at the beginning of the year, in January, went to speak to the municipalities about the challenges that came there from the Community directives, including the new requirements, the new goals, the new challenges that existed. [[Protests by PSD Member Bruno Coimbra.]] This dialogue continued throughout the year and culminated with the public consultation, where we receive several of the concerns that have been demonstrated by the National Association of Municipalities. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the national material productivity is €1 generated per kilo of material consumed; the European average is €2. In Portugal, the replacement of raw materials with recovered materials is 1, 8 %, one of the lowest in the European Union ; the European Union average is 11, 2 %. We waste a lot, we take little, and this is because it's never a good time to invest. Reducing and recycling is expensive, it's difficult, it gives work, it doesn't convince, it's easier to lie outside. And then we have social animosity on landfills or on incineration, when they will always have to exist if we want to be self-sufficient, but that they are redundant in the system and do not generate perverse effects that make it difficult to reduce, reuse and recycling. The goals with which Portugal is committed do not disappear with the pandemic and they include reducing landfill, selective collection and material and organic valorization, and these are targets for the next five years, not to 2050! That is why, of course, this challenge extravagants the protection of the environment and even what municipalities and citizens can and should do. It also says much not only to other guardianships, but also to what industry, trade, the flap will be available, or not, to make, if not voluntarily, through Community or other obligations. So let's be in agreement or not, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for your opportunity to discuss this issue. I hope to continue to count on your will and commitment to discuss the challenges of the environment in a truly cross-cutting way. Having reason or not, we must act, work and evolve. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u149	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, Secretary Diogo Leon will announce the legislative initiatives that have taken place in the Bureau during the discussion on this point. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u150	Mr. President and Mr. Members, have entered the Bureau, and have been admitted, the Resolution Projects Nos. 809 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) [ Parliamentary appreciation No 32 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) and 810 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) [ Parliamentary assessment No 34 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) and amendments submitted by BE concerning the Decree-Law which was under consideration, which fall to 11. the Commission. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u151	Mrs. Members, this means that they have entered the Bureau during the debate two draft resolutions submitted by the PSD and the CFP respectively, requesting that Decree-Law No 92 / 2020 expire on 23 October 2020, which will be voted on in due course. Proposals for amendments to the same Decree-Law were also submitted by BE. This means that, if any of the draft resolutions are approved, the Assembly of the Republic shall determine the termination of the Decree-Law; if they are rejected, the proposals submitted by the Left Block will be under consideration and vote in 11. the Commission. After this, we will move to the fifth point of the agenda, which consists in the general assessment of Bill No. 478 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Reinforces the remuneration regime of wind power plants ( Revoking Decree-Law No 35 / 2013 of 28 February ). To present the bill, Mr. Jorge Costa of BE has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u152	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The bill we are going to discuss suffers from the problem of many others in the area of energy, because it affects dry themes, difficult themes for most people. However, the complexity of these matters cannot lead the Assembly of the Republic to withdraw and move on to the problems that arise for Portuguese consumers and which result from the management made by the various governments over the years on the issue of energy. What we are going to discuss today is one of the biggest bills given to electricity producers in Portugal, with the unlawful collection of between EUR 700 million and EUR 1000 million from the year 2021, as a result of a decree amending the conditions under which wind power producers are paid in Portugal. of the matter, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is necessary to comply with a recommendation made more than one year ago in the conclusions and adopted by a majority in the Committee of Inquiry on Excessive Income to Electricity Producers, in Parliament, and to date has not had any provision or initiative on the part of the Government. I therefore ask everyone's attention. I begin by recalling the birth of this problem, by heights of the Memorandum of Understanding with the troika, in 2011. at that time, the PSD/CDS government decided to apply the Memorandum for the maximum bitola—it was not the only subject in which it decided — and to increase the VAT (tax on value added) of electricity to the maximum rate. The shock that this caused in electric power bills gave rise to the search for forms of compensation and there were those who viewed this opportunity as an opportunity to increase their income in the electric sector. Therefore, after the proposal that EDP ( Energies of Portugal) addressed to the Government by then Secretary of State Henrique Gomes was rejected, soon after the absence of a bad memory, which we all bear in mind, of that Secretary of State who initiated measures to combat excessive incomes, the Secretary of State Artur Trindade, who succeeded him, came to accept the proposal that EDP addressed to the Government at that time. In the background, it was to sell to electricity an extension of the administrative prices of income guaranteed to wind power production, beyond the 15 years that the law had already provided for. It was precisely this basis that Secretary of State Artur Trindade came to adopt and develop, in dialogue with wind power companies. Simplifyingly, what we had on the table was that most of the production of wind energy in Portugal resulted from private investments made under the law of 2005, which established the deadline I referred to for 15 years for the payment of a fixed rate for all electricity produced. With this period of 15 years, there would still be a fixed rate for more than five years, but reduced to the value that would occur in the new tenders for the production of wind energy and would already have very low costs. At the time, in the Parliamentary Commission of Inquiry ( CPI ), Eng. Carlos Pimenta said, in relation to the last auctions held, that "if they were auctioning now, the descent would be from 70 € / MWh to 50 € / MWh". Therefore, this low value would already be reflected in consumer invoices. It was precisely to avoid this risk that electricity producers came to obtain a higher tariff guarantee at the end of 15 years in 2013 from the PSD/CDS Government and an extension for five to seven years and for a larger number of companies. In return, they made a 'voluntary contribution' — so they called it — for the sustainability of the national electricity system. This is where we went from the boldness of EDP's proposal for the development in the way this measure has been presented to consumers. The wind power producers, who had already been exempted from the payment of the extraordinary contribution to the energy sector, still managed to ensure that their "voluntary contribution" to them from the new and very high rates of profitability in the future, which they did not have in the initial contract. The Parliamentary Commission of Inquiry has studied in depth both the 2005 regime, which has been amended, and the scheme which came into force in 2013 and has compared it to consumers. The conclusions are alarming: from 2021 onwards, in the first year of extension of the guarantee, electricity will recover almost everything they paid between 2013 and 2020 as a contribution and for another six years will still accumulate the advantages of this kind of business. Consumers are going to lose between 700 million and 1000 million euros. what it is, and what the ICC concluded, is that it is important to reverse this process, interrupt it and restore the picture in which the last wind power contests were made. Of course, producers immediately refused any negotiation and began the usual threats of litigation against the State. However, the recommendation made by the Parliamentary Committee on Inquiry — and the Members of the Socialist Party voted in favour of it (I am curiously not seeing any of those who participated in the work of the Committee on Inquiry, which is still strange) — was adopted by the Members of the Socialist Party, but the Government has closed the doors to this possibility. So, what we are dealing with today is to comply with this recommendation. The Secretary of State for Energy, who is not with us today, has promised to assess the financial viability of the revocation. Well, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this assessment is being made. It was done here in this House within this Committee of Inquiry. This business is ruinous, it is a reversal of consumer expectations due to the always promised gains resulting from the introduction of renewables and now, once again, postponed with new overcosts. It is therefore only to have the courage to comply with the recommendation which the Members themselves made at the end of the Committee of Inquiry. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u153	Mr Duarte Alves, from the CFP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u154	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The draft law under review aims to implement one of the recommendations of the Committee of Inquiry on the Payment of Excessive Income to Electricity Producers. And the truth is that we are discussing this because, so far, the Government has done nothing to implement these recommendations, even though the final report of this Committee of Inquiry has been approved, including with the votes in favour of the Socialist Party. With this initiative of the Left Block, it is intended to repeal Decree-Law No 35 / 2013 and to establish a regime for the recovery, in favour of consumers, of the amounts received as a result of that scheme created in 2013 by the PSD / CDS Government. And it is curious that those who have always defended a path of privatization, segmentation and liberalisation of energy, praising the merits of free market competition, have then created these mechanisms that make the tariffs subsidized for wind energy prolonged for another year. That is, despite technological innovation, the bottleneck of technologies, energy producers have continued to benefit from overrated rates, thus increasing their profits at the cost of the tariff paid by all consumers. It is not at all that we talk about incomes — and excessive incomes — in this energy sector. It is that the idea of a free market, of competition, is illusions in a sector such as energy. Only because of the profitability, at the cost of the state and at the cost of consumers, is this illusion of competitive market remains in such a sector. It was through these very high incomes and premiums that the multinationals of renewables were guaranteed high long-term rates paid by consumers. Yes, investment in renewable energy sources is important, if conducted with genuine environmental concerns and for the fulfilment of the public interest and energy sovereignty of the country. That's not what's happened. It is unacceptable for the Government to continue to carry out this and other recommendations of the Committee of Inquiry! The CFP shall intervene, as a matter of speciality in the State budget for 2020, with a proposal rejected by the CFP by the same custom, for the Government to have to schedule the implementation of these findings by the Commission of Inquiry. We have recently delivered a draft resolution with the same objective, which will soon be discussed. The fact is that the Government cannot continue to ignore, as it has done, the findings of the Committee of Inquiry, because it has been entrusted to the interests of the large companies in this sector, such as EDP. Excessive income is a national scandal, because they are part of the problem, which is to have one of the most expensive energy invoices in Europe, especially in view of the levels of income of the Portuguese population. In addition to the VAT on electricity and gas, which the CFP has argued is going to be taxed at the minimum rate, it is important not to forget that these incomes, these so-called 'costs of general economic interest', which weigh heavily on the energy bill paid by consumers, prevent so many Portuguese from having access to decent living conditions. This initiative is important to comply with one of the recommendations of the Committee of Inquiry, but it is necessary to continue to demand that the Government comply with all the recommendations and, above all, put national interest, consumer interest above the interests of large energy companies. It is in this sense that the CFP will continue to intervene. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u155	Mrs. Members, the Bureau does not register. [[Pause.]] Mr Nuno Fazenda has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u156	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Left Block today proposes to this House the repeal of a decree-law which was designed and approved in 2013 by the PSD/CDS Government and from which the same Government has entered into contracts with wind power producers. There are measures taken by different governments in the past with which we can agree or disagree or find them harmful to the Portuguese. That is what we considered in relation to the contracts established by the government of then with regard to wind farms. We believe it was a bad decision, which harmed consumers in the electricity tariff. Moreover, the conclusions of the Parliamentary Committee on Inquiry which have already been mentioned here have pointed out exactly that. But what we think does not give us legitimacy to break contracts and retroactively apply laws. A rule of law, as is the case with the Portuguese State, cannot fail to honour commitments, cannot break contracts, until breaking these contracts would entail judicial litigation, costs increased to the Portuguese, still penalizing the credibility of the Portuguese State. So what we have to do is honour the commitments, not make the same mistakes in the past and pursue an environmental policy that meets the challenges of climate change. Portugal was the first country to commit itself to carbon neutrality in 2050, establishing a script for the same purpose, and approved the National Energy and Climate Plan 2030, which has been in implementation, placing Portugal on the front line in the climate action. Between 2015 and 2019, Portugal has reduced carbon dioxide emissions by 26 % and has been the most reduced in Europe. And he did it with an economic growth above the European Union average. Yes, it is possible to preserve the environment with economic growth. But if these facts demonstrate Portugal's good performance, the cost of electricity for Portuguese remains still high, even above the European Union average. This has been precisely why, in recent years, there has been a reduction in energy costs and an example of the automatic allocation of social tariffs in electricity and natural gas. This was a measure that enabled more than 800 000 families to benefit, with a discount of almost 34 % on electricity and gas bills. In the meantime, last month, the Government decided to extend this social tariff and on the first day of December began to reduce electricity VAT from 23 % to 13 %, covering around 5 million contracts. These are concrete examples of reducing electricity costs. And the fact is that in the last four years, the cost of electricity has fallen 8 % in Portugal. In the European Union, it grew 4 %. Portugal is already the fifth country in the European Union which produces the most electricity from renewables, and 54 % of the electricity produced in Portugal originates in renewables. Our ambition is that in 2030 it is 80%. Betting on renewables means lower dependence on external Portugal, lower energy imports and, consequently, lower electricity costs for consumers and a better environment, also meaning more employment. Renewable energy has already been responsible for the creation of 10 000 jobs in Portugal. In the future, the price of electricity will be reduced by incorporating renewables, adding the fact that legislation gives everyone an opportunity to be energy producers. We must continue our efforts to reduce the price of electricity for Portuguese. But the energy gains for the country are not only achieved by production, but also by efficiency in consumption. That is why it is important to highlight the Most Sustainable Buildings program, a successful program that has allowed you to support, at the very bottom, interventions in Portuguese housing so that you can have more comfort with less energy costs at the end of the month. Given the success of this programme and the importance it represents, the Government reported that at the beginning of March 2021 there will be an opportunity for new applications. These are examples of measures — which many others could join, such as transport and mobility — which justify Portugal's international recognition of the environment. In addition, very recently, in an international assessment, Portugal rose eight places in relation to 2019 in the Climate Change Performance Index. It was the third country with the highest rise in climate policies. Therefore, they are not narratives, they are actions and facts that have happened in favour of the environment. Therefore, environmental transition is a strategic priority and that is also why it is as a priority in the Recovery and Resilience Plan. In short, our energy will not be consumed by breaking contracts, breaking written agreements from the Portuguese State, which would bring additional damage to the Portuguese. Our energy is focused on responding to businesses, Portuguese and climate change challenges. That is what has been done successfully and must be pursued for the future. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u157	For an intervention, Mr Emídio Guerreiro has the floor now of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u158	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : The Left Block seeks to revoke Decree-Law No. 35 / 2013, recovering Decree-Law No. 33 -A / 2005, and to return the around 220 million euros that operators paid to the State without explaining or justifying how compensation is calculated, delegating to portals that may result in more incomes... The Left Block is part of dogmatic convictions which, in most cases, have been questioned and rejected throughout the work of the Committee of Inquiry on Excessive Income. Not that these rents didn't exist, but not the way the Left Block understands them. Let us be clear: if the excessive income did not exist, it would not have been necessary to cut them. And that's what the Rabbit Pass Government has done. In fact, it was the first government to do so, and still well. That is why, years after these interventions, the tariff deficit has come down. I recall that in 2011 the scenario was to reach EUR 2750 million in the year 2020. It was necessary to act, and so it was. Cuts that allow this current panorama, much better than expected before. Renegotiating with the wind producers, as proposed by the Block on the Left, was the subject of great debate in the Commission of Inquiry, where the numbers presented by the Block on the Left were never confirmed by external entities and was only approved by tactical political opportunism of the Socialist Party, with the clear intention of fleeing the responsibilities...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u159	Ladies and gentlemen, you've run away from responsibility!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u160	... of the energy policy options of the governments of José Socrates. In fact, we can see how the government reacted to this proposal. Even during the Commission's work, current energy portfolio holders completely rejected the scenario of scrapping contracts made. And they didn't even equalize the possibility of renegotiating with the operators. The current government rejects, and well, this possibility, because the Left Block does not say everything in this proposal: omits that the 2005 decree not only proposes the extension of contracts for five years, it included the possibility of payment of green certificates. And one of the great virtues of the 2013 decree-law was exactly to end green certificates that, in the countries where they were implemented, gave rise to obscene and perverse subsidies. And what about the interpretation that the Left Block makes of the previous legislation? It says that the amount to be paid at the end of 15 years would be fixed by an auction that did not exist or, as such, the extension of the deadline within five years would be made on the basis of the last tariff allocated and that according to the information that ERSE ( Energy Services Regulatory Entity ) transmitted to the Commission of Inquiry would round up the €80, well above the average values set by the 2013 Decree-Law. But the basic question is another: in view of the absolute need for decarbonization, the Block never says how it intends to do it. He throws anathemas on companies, investors and rulers, creating the narrative that they are all bandits. Well, that's not true. In energy policy, we are always talking about huge investments and long contracts and it is not easy to establish the predictability of such contracts. Of course, this premise does not invalidate the investigation of contracts which give rise to doubts in favour. But that's not what the Left Block wants. Yes, it intends to launch a curtain of suspicion over all, based on convictions and accounts that no one has proved in the work of the Committee of Inquiry. Furthermore, if we recovered the 2005 legislation, as the Left Block intends, we would be favouring a significant set of mini-water farms, which saw their tariffs reduced in 2013. We were like the Block and I would be here today saying that the Block, with this proposal, intends to help the mini-waters of EDP, with the recovery of the incomes prior to cuts made in 2013! The thirst is so much that they didn't even see it...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u161	It's wrong!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u162	And we always don't know how the Block wants to meet environmental goals. No private investment? Without creating confidence conditions for the investment to be made? No stability in contracts? And what about the Socialist Party, party that did not have the decency to apologize to the Portuguese for the pre-banking of 2010 / 2011 and that, a decade ago, continues to realize that nothing had to do with the Memorandum of Troika? Yes, because this theme that originated the 2013 decree-law was there and was the target of scrutiny by the troika and the European Commission. A recurring forgetfulness that only reveals the bad conscience they have on these issues. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Contracts are to be fulfilled. Without this trust given to investors, we will never achieve the greatest goal of reducing carbon emissions and achieving the targets of clean energy production, which we intend to achieve in the shortest possible future. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u163	Mr André Silva of the NAP now has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u164	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: We agree with the fundamental question that the Left Block brings to the debate today. Often, the State, allegedly in the name of the environment and other flags, carries out business that, rather than safeguarding the public interest, ultimately serves certain established interests. As regards wind energy, the remuneration provided to undertakings exploiting this energy source was clearly excessive and above normal market remuneration. That is why more than discussing the past is necessary for us to prevent such negotiations, which are harmful to the public interest, from happening again in the future. For this reason, in order to avoid seeing a spin off, in the case of excessive incomes, of the wind, in which the environment was the alibi to serve certain established interests, the NAP proposed and succeeded in approving a set of measures to prevent it. These are examples of the creation of a transparency portal for the management of European funds and, above all, the forecast of the government's obligation to disclose publicly a report ensuring transparency in hydrogen business, even though the Socialist Party has voted against it. With mechanisms such as those which the NAP has been able to adopt, we will be able to give civil society ways to ensure a timely scrutiny and will also be a very important complement to the role of supervisory of the Assembly of the Republic. But one thing is the fundamental question of ensuring the public's interest in the State's affairs and protecting the public interest against the interests installed, something different is the concrete proposal that the Left Block brings to us, with which we do not agree. And we do not agree because we do not want to replace a regime that is very bad by a regime that, from our point of view, is also bad. The scheme proposed here by the Block provides for exceptions to normal market remuneration, which is what the NAP advocates, in particular, by allowing wind farmers to receive, for an additional period of more than five years, higher rates than they would receive, for example, with an auction system. We also do not agree, because it provides for the reversal of a regime that has been legally applied, with the return of funds received by companies exploiting wind farms and, if this proposal is approved, it may lead to judicial battles in which the Portuguese State and the public record may leave even more damaged than it has already been. It is true that it was a very bad business for the State, but, in this case, the only thing to do, from our point of view, is to seek political responsibilities and, eventually, criminals of those responsible for these ruinous businesses. What we cannot do here in Parliament is go beyond the law, something which calls into question the rule of democratic law.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u165	For an intervention, Mr João Gonçalves Pereira of the CDS now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u166	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I have heard several speeches in this debate and what I have been able to hold back was the huge trick that is this proposal of the Left Block. Mr. Jorge Costa is trying to build on your truth. I brought us some numbers, some presentations, but I did not have the political honesty to say in this debate which was the first government to lower energy revenues. The first to do so - was a PSD government / CDS, it was the first. Then, the Socialist Party, in some way—and it is also fair to recognize, and we recognize— was making certain successes. Now, the joke, what we are hearing, as yet Mr. PAN, who referred to the legal problems and the problem that can generate, even with the investors themselves, the Left Block does not seem to realize the impact that a matter of this nature may have on the country. It should be remembered that, whether it is for the wind, whether it is for the renewables, there has been, and there is, a way to go. We are still in an expansion period, we are in a period when we need to create incentives, create conditions for investment in renewable energy. Or doesn't the Left Block want more investment in renewable energy? I don't think so! It is that the intention of the Left Block is going a lot more in a logic to try to end, blow up with this market, with this sector. [[Protests from BE MP Jorge Costa.]] I will explain, Mr. Deputies. This should be the perspective and intention of the Left Block because, indeed, what was created was a regime that allowed certain conditions, guaranteed incomes for a given period, as an incentive form, those 15 years, extendable for more than five years that were associated with such green certificates. That's what's at stake.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u167	Or not, read the law!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u168	Mr President, there is something that for the CDS is absolutely clear in this debate, which is that you have a complex with the market economy. You want a planned economy and therefore nothing better than to blow up with a whole sector, create a problem and trouble of all sizes and go all to court. Clearly, investors are scared when they look at these types of measures, if they were approved, and therefore this is the intention and this is the perspective of the Left Block. From the perspective of the CDS, no. From the perspective of the CDS, there is a market economy that must work, there are incentives that must continue to exist and the country must mobilize precisely to have cleaner energies. And for that, there must be incentives.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u169	Mr Duarte Alves has the floor for a second speech at the time available to him from the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u170	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: What we have noticed in this debate by the PSD and the CDS is that, when it is said that investment and confidence conditions are needed for investors, if you are talking about creating incomes. In fact, only with incomes is that this illusion of market... Actually, in energy there is no market, there are incomes,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u171	We're down!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u172	... income guaranteed to these companies, and that's exactly how they understand the energy market. As for the intervention of Mr Nuno Fazenda of the Socialist Party, I was hoping to hear the PS demand that the government comply with the recommendations of the Committee of Inquiry, which had the PS's favorable vote, but what we saw was not that. [[Protests by PS Deputy Nuno Fazenda.]] What we saw was the PS Member talking about a set of general energy issues and, in the part where he talked about the concrete initiative, he said that it is against and that this bill has caused great harm to consumers, but that we cannot break contracts. The truth is that there are contracts and contracts.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u173	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u174	We know that with layoff, despite their employment contracts, many workers have seen their income cut. So contracts are not to be respected there. We hope that when it comes to discussing the draft CFP resolution on the timing of the findings of the Committee of Inquiry, the PS will be able to accompany it and be consistent with its vote in the Committee of Inquiry.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u175	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, with no further inscriptions, we shall proceed to the conclusion of the debate with the intervention of Mr Jorge Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u176	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The interventions of the PSD and the CDS come in line with the systematic intervention of these parties in the Committee of Inquiry, with the PSD defending the heritage of Artur Trindade and all that he left as a new excessive income. We did not hide that there were corrections that were made and new incomes that were created.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u177	Let's defend the cuts!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u178	In the case of the CDS, I do not have time to clarify it now, but I suggest that the law and the report of the Committee of Inquiry be corrected by some of the things I have said here. The honourable Member has not participated, and this is indeed a complex matter, and I am therefore offering him a discount. Regarding the Socialist Party, I would like to say two words. Mrs. Members, the recommendation made by the Committee of Inquiry, and I will read that « legislative measures have been taken to restore the economic balance prior to the 2013 regime, ensuring that the producers of the voluntary contributions paid so far plus their respective interest rates ». This was voted to the point by the Socialist Party Members who were in the Committee of Inquiry and now I understand why they did not come here today. They did not come because they were going to be ashamed to see the Socialist Party intervene against the vote they indicated in the Committee of Inquiry. It is true that Secretary of State John Galamba had already gone there to say what he thought, but had said so on behalf of the government. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group speaks in its own voice and voted consciously of what it was voting for. Today, we are told that you have been wrong, but that you have been mistaken in the principles, because after all, you cannot touch anything because this would be to break contracts. Mr Nuno Fazenda, the only thing torn was the report by the Committee of Inquiry that you voted for, and it was torn by you. The only thing lying down for the trash can was the word of the gentlemen. Members of the Socialist Party and, therefore, do not talk about broken contracts. We are talking about a voluntary contribution, paid as a patriotic contribution from the producers, but which, after all, is a jackpot in your favor. The only thing that would be for the State, as a good person, to do in this context was to restore the legal framework in which the contests were made. [[Protests by PSD MP Emídio Guerreiro.]] The tenders shall be made in legal frameworks which shall not be amended, on the grounds that they are even contaminated with the transparency of such tenders. But that's not what happened. No one raised any objection at that time, the amendments were made, the jackpot went out to the producers, but we are in time to correct. Continued protests by PSD MP Emidio Guerreiro. And the Socialist Party, by tearing the report of the Committee of Inquiry, is missing Parliament.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u179	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u180	When people out there see a committee of inquiry, which is a institute with special powers within Parliament, to develop and reach conclusions that are voted on by Members and then one year later — there was no life, it was last year! — see the same Members who voted on the conclusions and recommendations to say that it was all pretending,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u181	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u182	... this is why it discredits Parliament and our work as Members.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u183	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u184	Mrs. Members, do not tear off the report of the Committee of Inquiry, do not take the vote of the Socialist Party and support the amendments that are needed, in respect of the expectations of Portuguese consumers, to whom it was promised that the renewables would bring down costs on the invoice, because what you are letting happen is exactly the opposite.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u185	We thus conclude the discussion, in general, of the Bill No. 478 / XIV / 1. a (BE) which will be voted on in due course. At the sixth point of the agenda, the Bill No. 594 / XIV / 2 is scheduled without discussion times. a ( PS ) — Extends until 30 June 2021 the deadline for distance communication by means of meetings of local authorities and intermunicipal authorities, by amending Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March adopting exceptional and temporary measures to respond to the epidemiological situation caused by the coronavirus SARS-CoV-2 and the disease CVID-19. Mr Diogo Leon will now give us a legislative initiative which has, however, entered the Bureau and the names of the Members who followed us by videoconferencing. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u186	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, you have entered the Bureau, and you have been admitted, the Bill No 65 / XIV / 2. a ( ALRAM ) — Amends Article 120. that of the Code of Municipal Property Tax approved in Annex to Decree-Law No 287 / 2003 of 12 November in the wording given by Law No 2 / 2020 of 31 March, which falls to 5. the Commission. The relationship between the two of us. Members present at today's session, by video conference, are the following: Isabel Rodrigues, Marta Freitas, Paulo Porto, Jorge Gomes, Sonia Fertuzinhos and Manuel dos Santos Afonso, of the PS, and Sara Madruga da Costa, Sergio Marques, Hugo Martins de Carvalho and Hugo Carneiro, of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-17.u187	They are therefore adding these gentlemen. Members of the 209 members who took part in today's session. The plenary session will take place tomorrow at 10 a.m. the first point is the joint assessment of the proposed Law No 64 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Alter the exceptional regime for situations of late payment of due income under housing and non-residential urban lease contracts under the COVID-19 pandemic, and the Law Projects Nos 575 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ) — Exceptional non-residential income scheme for tenants and retailers under the New Urban Rent Scheme affected in their activity by COVID-19, 576 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — Interpretation rules clarifying the application and retroactivity to the period of confinement of the suspension of the application of fixed incomes, 596 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ) — Extends the extraordinary scheme for the protection of tenants ( seventh amendment to Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March ), 599 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Establishs for 2021 the exceptional arrangements applicable to specific forms of contracts for the exploitation of real estate for trade and services in commercial centres, 600 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Exceptional income payment scheme, 601 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Extraordinary scheme for the protection of tenants, 602 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Clarifies the exceptional regime applicable to contracts for the exploitation of buildings for trade and services in commercial centres for the purpose of adopting an interpretative standard in respect of Law No 2 / 2020 of 31 March and 603 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ) — Extension of lease contracts for commercial purposes during the recovery period of the economy in the case of considerable turnover losses ( third amendment to Law No 4 - C / 2020 of 6 April ). In the second item of the agenda, Decree-Law No. 81 / 2020 of 2 October which fits the instruments created under the New Generation of Housing Policies and the Organic Law of IHRU, IP, the Housing Basics Act, under the Economic and Social Stabilisation Programme [ Parliamentary Assessment No. 33 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ). The third point follows the joint assessment of Resolution Projects Nos 784 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Place the humanitarian crisis and the problem of terrorism in Mozambique in the priorities of the Portuguese Presidency of the Council of the European Union and 779 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Recommends to the Government the mobilisation of the international community in order to prevent crimes committed against humanity in Mozambique. The fourth item on the agenda consists of the general discussion of Bill No 169 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Determines the declaration of affiliation or connection to « discreet » organisations or associations in the form of declaration obligations ( First amendment to Law No 52 / 2019 of 31 July ). At the end of the sitting, there will be regular votes. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have completed our work for today and I wish you all a very good afternoon. See you tomorrow at ten o'clock. The session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 59 minutes.]]
