ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists. The session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 10 minutes.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the first item on our agenda include a debate, marked by the CDS-PP, on the authority of the State and security of citizens, with the general discussion of Bill Nos 101 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — aggravated criminal framework for crimes committed against security forces agents ( Fifty-seventh amendment to the Penal Code) and 454 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Establishment of the legal type of crime of offence to the physical integrity and honour of security forces and services ( Fifty-seventh amendment to the Criminal Code ), together with Draft Resolution No 535 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — the creation of a regime effectively deterring the breach of obligations arising from the state of emergency or disaster. at the end of the debate there will be votes, as is shown in the second item on the agenda, and it is therefore good to register for quorum purposes from now on. To open the debate, Mr Telmo Correia has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS, in the exercise of its legislative right, today brings to this House the issue of strengthening State authority and supporting security forces. The first question, of course, which we want to answer when we bring this issue is whether or not this problem exists and whether or not this problem needs a political response and eventually also a legislative response, as we propose, to give it a solution. It is clear that, regardless of the solution, we understand that the problem exists, that the problem is serious and that the problem is serious. In global terms, I want to tell you, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have had anything like more than 200 assaults on security forces officers in the first three months of this year. Even in a pandemic situation and even with the confinement situation, the latest news reported 87 — at present we will be close to 100 — assaults on security forces and services. Just to give you an example of the present matter, if there is any doubt, I tell you, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is unfortunately a matter of every day. In preparation for this same intervention, I found a news story, which is today and I note to you, referring to one case yesterday: three PSP agents (PSC) were attacked in Cacem in Sintra by a family who disobeyed the order of compulsory confinement. The police were insulted and then assaulted; one of them had to receive assistance, depending on the injuries. This was yesterday. Today, we have news — it will be enough to turn on a television — of police who were forced to shoot at Amadora after attempting to intervene on a road accident. Right today! That is, yesterday, today and unfortunately it is possible to repeat tomorrow or any day, we have aggressions against members of the security forces, there is difficulty for them to comply with their instructions, their orders, what, in the legitimate exercise of authority, they seek to do with the citizens. from our point of view, and since the CDS has all the legitimacy to speak of this matter—it is not the first time that we have done so, we have done so repeatedly over several years and also in recent years, I would draw attention to the fact that those responsible for the security forces themselves and their trade union officials have turned to the government, and also to the legislative power, demanding intervention in this matter, and that is what we are proposing to you today. And I would also like to draw attention to the fact that, at the moment, this issue has, from our point of view, particular acuity. Why and why now? Why now? Because we have received, with a few months' delay, it is true, depending on the pandemic, that the Annual Report on Internal Security ( RASI) reveals to us, for the first time in several years—that is, of course, a worrying sign and a sign that the capacity and power of the security forces must be strengthened—a reversal of the trend of crime in Portugal. Crime, which has been steadily decreasing over several years, is increasing for the first time according to this RASI of 2019. It increases with more than 3% of serious and violent crimes—2931 participations, anything like 40 per day—and more crimes committed by younger people, with particular emphasis on some kind of crime, such as theft on the public road, with a very close increase of 12%, a large part of them using a weapon, especially with use of the white gun. This issue, and this increase in crime, which is one of the basis for us to make this proposal now, must to some extent be combined with another fact. We have also seen, including the political movement side, a certain appeal to disobedience, an appeal to disrespect by the security forces, when not even a call to hate the security forces. We have seen this recently in demonstrations—which obviously had nothing to do with this—where some people have tried to distort these manifestations by using hate posters against the security forces. If we combine the fact that the security forces are increasingly exposed to aggression with this appeal and disrespect by the security forces, the issue becomes, and is, of course, particularly serious. Finally — and this is the third argument for this matter to be relevant and important now — in addition to the number of aggressions and the increase in the severity of aggression, in addition to the call for disobedience, there is a third reason for this: we are now asking the security forces what we have never asked them to do before. The fruit of the pandemic and the rules imposed by the pandemic itself, the need for intervention by the security forces is much greater. We realize this daily, through social communication, with numerous examples of the dispersion of illegal parties, intervention with establishments that should be closed and are open, dispersal of meetings, etc. etc etc These rules are obviously different, depending on the situation of defination of the various parts of the country, as is the case with the prohibition of meetings of more than 10 people in the metropolitan area of Lisbon or more than 20 people in the rest of the country. In other words, what in democracy is not even normal to be asked to the security forces — as is the case with the dispersion of assemblies of more than 10 people — is now being requested. It is therefore necessary that this idea of the authority of the security forces, the idea that they must be respected when they are going to exercise their duty and when they are going to intervene in such situations, is absolutely clear and absolutely unequivocal. That is why we propose not only the empowerment of the crime of offence, defamation, insult or corporal offense, including serious bodily offense, against the security forces, but also we propose measures to ensure that this idea of respect for order and authority is implemented and is clearer in Portuguese society. Clearly, the proposals we make here are a legislative response, but we have the notion that they are not the overall legislative response. There's a lot missing. And the first thing that's missing is there's effectiveness and means for security forces. But these issues are not resolved now, through our legislative agenda. These issues will either be resolved through the State budgets or not, and in the latter we have always fallen short of what is necessary. There are also — RASI also says — fewer cops. The balance in the security forces, which has the lowest number of effectors of many years ago to this part, returns this year to be negative: they entered about 400 and went out 1284 elements. So we have practically less than 900 elements in the security forces.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u3	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u4	Lack of means, lack of vehicles, lack of equipment, risk allowance, which this House has adopted as a recommendation to the Government, has never been implemented or implemented. All this is obviously important, all this is necessary, as they themselves say. The answer must be comprehensive and better training, through better organization, through strengthening of means in the State budget and also — and this is a proposal that gives voice to what the representatives of the security forces stand for — by a political and legislative sign of support, taking into account the seriousness of what is offensive or not respecting the security forces. This answer, obviously, must be democratic, a response from the whole society, of civilization, of urbanism, which prevents and breaks down, including radicalisms, because, for those who complain a lot about radicalisms and radical actions in certain sectors, or the democratic political power gives a response or we can hardly complain about these same more radical manifestations. What we propose, I make it clear — and ending — Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is the empowerment of the crime of offenses or violence against security agents. We know that this criminalization exists, but judicial doubts have also existed and, therefore, empowering and making clear seems to us of the greatest importance. On the other hand, we propose, within the general framework of already planned and existing crimes, when they are directed against security forces, military or representatives of the public service, their overall worsening, also as a political signal. Finally, and in relation to the issue of pandemic, we propose the creation of an abstract danger crime. We're not the only ones defending him. Several jurists and renowned criminalists have come to defend him, for a very simple reason: the answer was late. We had a long time to have a counter-ordinary framework, and the government said that it did not want to come to the Assembly of the Republic to establish a legislative framework, among other reasons, because it would not be effective for tomorrow, but unfortunately no one guarantees that this problem will end tomorrow. Therefore, a stable criminal framework, in order to respond to these types of situations and to the issue of pandemics, seems fundamental to us. They note that not everything can be resolved on the basis of the crime of disobedience, which, moreover, is the least valued crimes in our courts. Therefore, in certain circumstances it will be necessary to resort to the crime of spread of disease. But the crime of the spread of disease implies double proof, as we know, that it involves proof of the spread and proof of the concrete danger, and we think that the substitution of an abstract danger crime may be a good way. from this point of view, this is the proposal we make. We do so in a way that is thought-prone, by means of a resolution, giving the Government the opportunity to analyse this matter, not directly imposing a criminal solution, in a global concern that, today, our security forces, men and women who, day by day, protect us and guarantee our security, are confronted with a shortage of means, with shortage of effective, with new difficulties, which are raised, in particular, by the issue of the pandemic, and need, from the democratic political power, represented in this House, a political signal and an unequivocal sign of support, which is what the CDS brings today, with this power agenda. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u5	I would like to inform the plenary that we already have enough Members, in quantity and quality, for the quorum of votes, and therefore it has all the conditions to verify itself. Before we proceed to the requests for clarification, you have the floor of Mr. Secretary of the Bureau, who will give us an account of the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u6	Mr. President and Mr. Members have entered the Bureau and several legislative initiatives have been admitted. I begin by referring to Resolution Projects Nos 545 / XIV / 1. a (IL) — by preventing risks of corruption during the pandemic, 546 / XIV / 1. a ( IL) — by effective protection of the complainants and 553 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Portuguese Government intervene with the Spanish Government in order to close the Almaraz nuclear power plant. I also refer to Law No 48 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Establishs the tax regime of UEFA Champions League 2019 / 2020 competition organizers and extends the tax exemption on value added in intra-Community transmissions and acquisitions of goods necessary for the fight against COVID-19 disease. Finally, I refer to Bill 458 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Extends the Parliamentary Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Deputies and, in its place, establishes the Council for the Transparency and Status of Deputies, making the tenth amendment to the Statute of Deputies adopted by Law No 7 / 93 of 1 March and the first amendment to Law No 52 / 2019 of 31 July approving the regime for the exercise of functions by holders of political positions and high public positions, 459 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Fifth amendment to Law No 43 / 90 of 10 August on the exercise of the right to petition, 460 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Third amendment to Law No 43 / 2006 of 25 August on monitoring, assessment and pronunciation by the Assembly of the Republic in the process of building the European Union, 461 / XIV / 1. a ( Member not registered Joacine Katar Moreira ) — Long-term rail investment programme ( PIFELoC) and 462 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Valuation of the career of superior diagnostic and therapeutic technician. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u7	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I thank Mr Telmo Correia for allowing the announcement of this information in the middle of the debate, but it was urgent. Mr Telmo Correia, four Mr. Members signed up to ask for clarifications from the Left Block, the PAN, the PSD, and the PCP. To make the first request for clarification, I give the floor to Mrs Sandra Cunha.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Telmo Correia asks whether the problem that the CDS brings today exists. Well, Mr President, I must tell you that the explanatory statements of the various initiatives presented by the CDS seem to suggest that we are going into any state of civil war: they speak of imminent tensions, but do not realize them; they try to pass an image of a very specific population, or rather of very specific groups of the population such as bulldozers, criminals and criminals, contrary to the general perception of the availability of Portuguese to isolate themselves and comply with the rules of distance and security, even before they have been established, of solidarity and respect for the Portuguese people. The CDS is embedded in any alternative reality in which people will be on the lookout, always waiting to be able to break the rules, abuse the defination, disregard the rules of coexistence, always seeking to challenge the authorities, the instructions and the orders. What does the CDS propose with these initiatives? To guarantee the conditions of health safety at work and in transport to protect people? Educating children and older ones for self-protection and for the protection of others? No, no, no. The CDS proposes to punish. It proposes strengthening the crime of disobedience and the spread of the disease. Punir! The CDS proposes, for example, to treat the elderly who come out of the house, to breathe a little, to play cards in the park, like a gang of criminals. The CDS also aligns itself with the repressive and authoritarian policy as a substitute for the enhancement of the elements of the police forces. Mr President, this is not how security forces are valued. Valuing and dignity of the professionals of the security forces and services even means guaranteeing working conditions in infrastructure, equipment, careers, wages and labour rights. These rights and conditions have deteriorated and worsened over the years, but have reached their exponent with the austerity policies of the PSD government and the CDS, which cut rights, cut wages and pensions, impoverished workers and forced workers, including the elements of the security forces and services and their families, devalued careers and mirrored rights. Mr Telmo Correia, what I am asking is whether it is really possible to value and dignify security forces and services by creating new crimes, with authoritarian and repressive options. I ask what is that a new type of crime, with a pompous name that has no effect, does by valuing the careers of the police and their wages. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u9	For the next request for clarification, Mr André Silva, of the NAP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u10	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u11	Sir, would you like to speak for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u12	Mr President, I had made a signal to indicate that I wanted to respond to requests for clarification one by one.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u13	I'm sorry, sir, I didn't see it. Mr Telmo Correia has the floor to respond to the first request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u14	Mr President, Mr André Silva, thank you very much, I will have the opportunity to reply soon. Mrs Sandra Cunha, first of all, I would like to thank the question, but of course I have to say the following: the Left Block may agree or disagree, it may well or may not find what we propose, but I would like to thank her for not distorting what we propose.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u15	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u16	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u17	That would be of the greatest benefit, Mrs. What we present, including, and I repeat, in a reasonable way, through a draft resolution, is the creation of a crime which, in essence, is an abstract danger crime, which has to do with the spread of disease. It's not because I'm going to play cards, Mrs. Member, it's got nothing to do with that! [[The PSD Member Carlos Peixoto's laughs.]] I repeat, it has nothing to do with that. Mrs Deputies, our proposal is mainly meant to distinguish one thing: for example, a person who has a restaurant and is trying to sell more drinks, a meal, whatever, by not meeting the schedule, is incuring a crime of disobedience. This is a kind of crime. But, in my opinion, something completely different is a person who, knowing that he is infected and knowing that he can infect others, deliberately goes to the middle of a group of people or a crowd, and can spread the disease. That's what we're talking about, it's not going to play cards, mrs. We're talking about something very serious. In fact, there are people who do not comply and today it is impossible to criminally blame them for a very simple reason: the crime of spread of disease, as I have explained — I assume that the honourable Member has understood — not only implies propagation as the concrete danger to another person. So what we defend is an abstract danger crime for this kind of behavior. The honourable Member is not here to tell me something that I have not said, that I have not done and that I will never do, that it is some kind of idea of stigmatization of groups of people, whatever it is. I've never done anything like that. Crimes are typical, illegal and guilty actions that can be committed by any person, regardless of the group to which they belong, from the group to which they belong or whatever they belong. Therefore, Mrs Deputy, I would like to thank you, too, for being strict about what you suggested. I didn't say this was specific to anyone who wanted it to be concrete. Anyone can commit this crime. Besides, it wasn't me who was trying to pass the idea that this, now, was a problem with the young, the older, or I don't know what. If you want, you have to wait for the government to come and tell you that. With regard to this, Mrs Deputies, when she says « does not talk about transport, she does not talk about what», now a month ago — I repeat, a month ago — I asked the Prime Minister in a 15-year debate whether or not he was going to differentiate the timetables, not those of transport, but those of work, allowing better solutions in transport. A month ago we asked whether there should be no more cautions on defining. I must also say that, after the state of emergency report, I asked the Minister of Internal Administration if he did not think that there should be a verifiable and effective sanction framework for this kind of matter. Now, the honourable Member knows as well as I do what the government has done. First, he did nothing—it was pedagogy, it was conversation, on the assumption that people would be confined forever. He then made a counter-ordinary picture for fines in public transport, for lack of mask, etc. , and only now, when the problem is as it is, has come to announce a counter-order national framework. So why does the Government not come to Parliament to present a criminal solution? Oh, my God! I admit that the Left Block may not be particularly appreciated by the security forces. Moreover, it is not by chance the following: it was in demonstrations in which the Left Block was a great intervention that the cases of the posters in which it read: « Good police is dead police ». It won't be by chance. You may not like it, but allow us to have an opposite opinion. We believe that the security forces — I am not saying that, Mrs Deputy, they are themselves — feel that they are in need of support and ask for it. [[Protests by PS Member Isabel Alves Moreira.]] Mrs. Isabel Moreira, whenever she wants, joins the Left Block. It will do better this way, instead of always interrupting and defending the honour of the Left Block. He doesn't need it. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u18	Now, yes, it is Mr André Silva of the NAP who has the floor to request clarification from Mr Telmo Correia.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u19	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Telmo Correia, today the CDS brings to the debate the theme « authority of the State and security of citizens », presenting three legislative initiatives: one to empower and aggravate the criminal frame of crimes committed against security forces agents; another to frame the crime of offence in the criminal law to the physical integrity and honour of security forces and services agents; and another to tighten the penal framework of violations of obligations arising from the state of emergency or disaster. They are different themes that do not cease to have the health crisis as a background and that show a return to a muscular CDS, which believes that the hardening of feathers is the magic solution for all problems of the Portuguese criminal system. We all know that what prompted these projects was precisely a shameful poster, in an anti-racist manifestation, which was an isolated aspect of this important civic action and which was infused by certain sectors in order to underestimate the essential of the righteous claims put there. The NAP's position on this matter is clear and it is based on a balance solution, from which, unfortunately, the CDS decided to leave during this legislature. For us, violence, in all its forms, must be fought and condemned, must not be fed. The truth is that there is violence on both sides and there are changes that we have to undertake, in a balanced way and without walking to the noise of the media. But why did the CDS not seek, for example, to ensure that the Annual Internal Security Report identified crimes against forces and security services in an autonomous manner, rather than start with the magic solution of the increase in penalties and the creation of new types of crimes? The honourable Member said from the high-level rostrum of RASI that nothing refers to crimes against security forces, precisely the object of this agenda of the CDS. The CDS wants to empower the crimes of aggression and violence against the security forces and to convince us to follow them, but how many crimes against security agents are there? Why does the CDS not promote the introduction of this data in the Annual Internal Security Report and then, in the face of a problem, we resolve, or not, the prospect of legislation? But there is more: the CDS should know that, according to the security forces' representative associations mentioned here, one of the causes that justifies recent crimes of violence against authority agents is the fact that these agents are seen as an easy target, which is due to the lack of adequate equipment or the form of police in sensitive urban areas. Mr President, would it not be better if we were to discuss these measures for 146 minutes that would prevent such problems more effectively? However, as if the punitive restraint of the CDS did not arrive, it is proposed that the Assembly of the Republic abdicate its powers and recommend that the Government aggravate the criminal framework applicable to non-compliance with obligations outlined during the state of emergency and the state of disaster. There is no doubt that there is at present a problem of respect for the obligations of social distance and of prophylactic isolation, but, Mr President, the punitive or penal path is not the magic solution to these situations.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u20	You have the floor to answer, Mr Telmo Correia.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u21	Mr President, Mr André Silva, I thank you for your question, but I would like to disagree with two statements which you have made and may clarify it. First of all, he comes up with a theory, which we already know and emerges from every time the CDS raises these questions, which is that the CDS has become secure or muscular, I don't know exactly what the expression he used anymore, but it was something like that. Mr Deputy, for the CDS, this is a matter of always, it is an ancient, traditional matter. The NAP is a recent party, with all its legitimacy, but, honourable Member, by chance I have asked — and I can deliver to you at the end, if you want — the number of initiatives that the CDS has taken in this matter, or close to it, since the 1990s. In all, there have been 45 initiatives in recent years, many of them bordering, and this is what we are now proposing. So the CDS has not discovered this issue today, it has not started this debate today, and it also considers — and perhaps there will be a difference in our approach to this issue — that this type of discussion is important, that the criminal issue is not irrelevant and has a very important symbolic character in our view. And one thing does not prevent the other, that is to say, having this debate today will not prevent us from discussing RASI in the future. [[Protests by PS Member José Magalhães.]] ... or when the law of criminal policy comes, of the government, for the week, or even when we come to the discussion of the State budget, we will discuss these matters again. Secondly, Mr President, you cannot also accuse the CDS of not having intervention, because I also asked for information, and I can also send it to you about the number of proposals we have made — not since the 1990s, because that would not even fit here — in the last State budgets. We have made proposals for strengthening means for the entry of 400 agents for the PSP, each year, including the entry of 400 elements for the GNR ( Republican National Guard ), each year. So the CDS never stopped making these proposals and will never stop making them. Now, one thing does not prevent the other and, within this agenda, we wanted to mean the existence of an increase in aggression against elements of the security forces and to value what, in my opinion — and there, we probably also disagree — is the need for a democratic response, of the democratic political power, to that matter. Furthermore, Mr President, I must also tell you that I saw the document which they themselves sent to the Government, to the Prime Minister and, as far as I know, to the parliamentary groups, in which the ASPP / PSP (the Trade Union of Police Professionals ) defends a number of solutions, and the SPP (the Union of Police Professionals) defends more or less the same. Listen, they're solutions, so you can verify when it's provocation and when it's the agent that acts out of the law, with cameras that they can have to prove it, ballistic vests, etc. But they also advocate changes in the legislative framework and, moreover, the whole of point 4 refers to this. This is a document of the main and largest union of the security forces and, in point 4 ( d ), speaks of aggravating the criminal frame. It's written! So it's not just the CDS that defends him, they themselves defend him. Finally, I would like to say to you, Mr President, that the numbers of these crimes exist and that I second the idea that they should be in RASI.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u22	What are they?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u23	We had more than 300 in the first few months, 87 during the state of emergency and now we have daily news of this kind of crime. These crimes exist, they are a real concern and, even to avoid situations of undesirable radicalization, there must be a response from political power. In my opinion, a democratic response is needed, which is what the CDS does when bringing this issue and this debate to this House.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u24	For clarifications, Mrs Sara Madruga da Costa, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u25	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Telmo Correia, first of all I welcome you on the subject of internal security, which is very important. It is a subject which the PSD is paying special attention and which includes several decisive contributions from the PSD, such as the introduction in 2001 of a qualifying circumstance when murder or offensive crimes are involved to physical integrity committed against security forces and services agents. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, despite the importance of this issue, we believe that at the moment the great concern of Portuguese in the area of internal security is their own health security. at a time when things have not gone well, especially here in Lisbon, what concerns Portuguese is the guarantee of their own safety. Mr Telmo Correia, we doubt that this problem is solved, as the CDS intends, by the worsening of penalties or by the worsening of the criminal framework. In fact, we believe that none of the problems identified by the CDS seem to be solved with the worsening of the penalties, which, it is worth remembering, Mr Deputies, is already provided for in the Criminal Code for crimes committed against security forces and services agents. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Telmo Correia, despite the kindness of these three CDS initiatives, we believe that they go along with the most urgent concerns of the Portuguese people and that they have mobilized the security forces. The CDS initiatives are next to the best legal and criminal policy solutions, because the worsening of penalties is already provided for in the Criminal Code, but more importantly, Mr. Deputies, the CDS initiatives do not solve the problems of the security forces. Mr Telmo Correia, I still leave a note on the draft resolution. What is the point of recommending to the government to do what is within Parliament?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u26	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u27	Why did the CDS not present a legislative initiative with a view to creating the one that believes to be the most correct typification of a new legal framework? Ladies and gentlemen. Members, like health professionals, the security forces have and have played a very important role, first, in the state of emergency and then in the state of disaster. These women and men deserve our recognition for their noble mission and the risks they face. Security forces also deserve the recognition and appreciation of the government, deserve more appropriate operating conditions, more investment and more resources. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not with the improvement of the penalties presented here that the problems of the security forces are solved. Mr Telmo Correia, do you really think it is with the worsening penalties that the problems of security forces and services are solved? Oh, my God! Do you really think the worsening of the penalties will make Portugal a safer country? Oh, my God! Do you really think that the worsening of penalties will strengthen the authority of the State and the effectiveness and prestige of the security forces? Oh, my God! Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Telmo Correia, with due respect, which is very much, cannot be intended to change a diploma that is fundamental and structural as the Penal Code as merely symbolic form. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u28	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u29	To reply, Mr Telmo Correia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u30	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will not resist and will do something that is normally attributed to politicians, i.e. I will also answer your questions with a few questions. And you'll see why, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen. Madam President, first of all, I am not very good at graphics but I would like to show you this — and also Mr André Silva, because I did not show you at the time — which is 2018 - 2019, with the increase in serious aggression against security forces and services agents. [[Right now, the speaker displayed a chart.]] These are 2015 numbers, 2016, 2017, 2018 and 2019, showing an exponential increase. In 2019 the number is a little below 2018, but in any case it is far above 1000 serious assaults against security forces and services agents. This is what we want to answer. Ask me if you have more serious penalties. Don't! I responded to that in the initial intervention. It does not solve itself, but I ask you: is it useful or not to empower the crime? If a citizen knows that the penalty is indeed serious—and there are countries where the penalties are even more serious—will he not think twice before he disobeys or assaults an element of the security forces? Will this not lead some citizens to think twice, depending on the criminal gravity that the State attaches to this situation? Obviously, this is the question and I think the answer is « yes». That's why the crimes are graduated, isn't it? Oh, my God! The most serious things have a more serious treatment. The important thing is whether or not society considers it to be extremely serious to attack an element of the security forces. I think you should consider it.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u31	It's planned!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u32	Mr Deputy, of course it is planned. What we propose is aggravating.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u33	It's planned too!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u34	No, we propose the rise of the frame, Mrs. Member, see the project. More: we propose empowerment. Mrs Sara Madruga from Costa, I leave you with a second question: do you think that insulting an element of security forces with serious insults and insulting or assaulting an element of PSP is a crime, or do you think it is not a crime? Tell Mrs. Monica Quintela what's planned. Well, look, in more than one court there were decisions on how this was not a crime but, rather, the right to a just indignation and revolt. [[Protests from PSD MP Carlos Peixoto.]] For it is, Mr President, but on the day on which it is self-sustained, on the day when the criminal type is in fact there, these kinds of judicial decisions are no longer possible, as is evident. That is the question, that is the logic and that is why we make this proposal and that the very elements of the security forces consider this empowerment not only relevant as aggravating. In other words, it is clearly more serious to attack an element of security forces, military forces or someone in public office than in other cases. What we propose is that, in such cases, there should be even greater criminal framework, as a clear sign of political support for these security forces. You may continue to ignore it, but then do not complain about the Zeros that are emerging and growing and of the radicalism movements that come out of outrage, because of such decisions as a court considers that insulting an element of the security forces is not even a crime and that attacking an element of the security forces is a just revolt or a movement of indignation.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u35	Look at the criminal frame.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u36	I didn't see anything else!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u37	Mr António Filipe has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u38	Mr President, Mr Telmo Correia, on requests for clarification, I will not refer to bills. I will do so in the following intervention, but not because they are original. In fact, in this matter, as is commonly said, the CDS « sees the disc and plays the same ». But no, I didn't even see the record. in this, the CDS is like those vinyl disks that were scratched, in which the needle went forward and went back. Therefore, the CDS solves the problems by saying: 'Pens increase, penalties increase, penalties increase'. But that's what I'll talk about next. [[PSD Member Protest Duarte Marques.]] Now, in the case of a request for clarification, there is a perplexity with regard to the initiative presented by the CDS. If Mr. Telmo Correia would like to hear... The CDS presents a draft resolution recommending that the Government do what is entirely within the competence of the Assembly. That is, we know that in other projects the CDS increases feathers, which is a matter of taking the pen and changing numbers, but now I wanted to propose something a little bit more elaborate and then, besides having an absolutely offensive preamble to the Portuguese people, its conclusion is that the Portuguese people do not respect confinement and walk around in magotes. We know that there are a few small gatherings there and that last weekend there was a small gathering of people who put their own lives in danger, but that's not what I'm talking about. The Portuguese in general have had a civic and appropriate behavior, which we have all praised.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u39	Except CDS!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u40	Then there are, in fact, some exceptions. Now, the CDS, with this preamble, thinks there are no exceptions. The rule is that the Portuguese are leaving home when they shouldn't, and so what the state should do is put them in prison. As soon as they don't go home, prison with them! But my question is on the following: Mr Telmo Correia, you know that criminalization and punishment is an exclusive competence of this House, although the Government can, of course, and if so request, request authorization from the House to create criminal frameworks to criminalize crimes. [[Protests by PS Member Isabel Alves Moreira.]] in the CDS, Mr Telmo Correia knows this because we were college colleagues, he was never a bad student and he knows perfectly well that he is proposing that the government do what it cannot do. The Government may, when much, apply for authorisation. basically, he's here saying the following: "Well, we wanted to do something about this, but we don't know how. The Government proposing to the House what it should do, because we do not know well».
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u41	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u42	You don't understand otherwise! If the CDS thinks these measures are important, why does it not propose them in a draft material law, and the House discuss what the CDS wants? But no, what the CDS here does is to say: «he trusts the government blind, the government will know». I must say that we don't give her that trust! We have a lot of respect for the government's proposals, but we want to discuss them! [[Congrats from PS and BE Member José Manuel Pureza.]] Now, as it is understood, unless with blind confidence in the government, the CDS makes this proposal, knowing perfectly well that the government could even say: "Well, we would even like it, but that is the exclusive competence of the Assembly. So, if you want anything, propose to the House, knock on the door and not on the door of the government, because the government cannot take care of you in this matter.' [[Congratulations from the PCP, the ENP and Mr José Manuel Pureza.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u43	In reply, Mr Telmo Correia of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u44	Mr President, firstly, in a very brief and direct manner, I would like to reply to Mr António Filipe. from the point of view of legislative competence, you are quite right, but I have not said the opposite from the beginning. Answering your question, the answer is very obvious. We have proposed that the Government establish a clear and unequivocal counter-ordinary framework from the first state of emergency. The Minister replied: « pedagogy, weak talk», etc. We then proposed a counter-ordinary framework for defination and the Minister and the Government replied: 'flashy conversation'. Why do we propose and put the government in this debate when the House could solve the problem alone?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u45	Pregnant!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u46	For a strict question of criminal caution, Mr. I admit that there may be a general review of a criminal regime, for which, of course, the government has the means. The Minister of Justice himself, with whom we have already discussed this matter, can make and bring a reflection to Parliament which will help us make a more in-depth decision with what the Government itself is deciding on in counter-ordinary matters. If you wish, I would say that it is strictly cautious, and I am sure that I do not rule out bringing not a draft resolution but a concrete proposal in a future debate. It was because of this caution that we did so and I think that this answers your question.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u47	Don't do it, but do it!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u48	With regard to the rest, Mr President, I would just like to congratulate you on the following: I did not say that the Portuguese people are a group of insurgents who do not understand this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u49	That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u50	on the contrary, the Portuguese people demonstrated, in particular in confinement, a huge civilization and enormous urbanism. The question, Mr President, is that from the moment that the Government has moved towards defining without rules, without preparation, without studying the situation, with a RT (transmissibility ratio) far above 1, particularly in Lisbon, everything has become more complicated. Therefore, we need, for this type of situation or for other situations of calamity, a stable criminal framework. I was hoping, through this proposal, that the government, by setting up a specialized committee, would weigh it down. If you don't, we can take the initiative in Parliament. So I just wanted to tell you, Mr, that these are the CDS proposals. I am grateful that you recognize that they are historical and traditional and that they are vinyl of the good and the old. The vinyl is getting into fashion,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u51	But not the CDS!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u52	...the cassettes are already gone. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u53	Mrs Cláudia Santos, from the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u54	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This is not a debate that contrasts those who care about the security forces and services to those who do not care about the security forces and services. We all recognize its importance and the need to protect and value its agents. However, we have quite different perspectives on how this protection and valuation should happen. The CDS bills we are discussing today have a common denominator: the idea that we can protect our police especially through mere amendments to the criminal law and the belief that our police protect themselves by exacerbating the prison sentences already planned or by creating crimes that have actually been created for a long time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u55	He didn't hear!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u56	Draft Law No 101 / XIV / 1. the aim is to increase prison sentences for several crimes that may be victims agents of security forces and services and their structural difficulties are underlined in the opinions of both the Supreme Council of the Magistracy, or the Superior Council of the Public Ministry. The Bill No. 454 / XIV / 1. it seems to create a new crime—it is entitled, in fact, 'The creation of the legal type of offence to the physical integrity and honor of security forces and services'—but, in fact, it does not create any crime, because the offences to the physical integrity or to the honour of the agents of our security forces and services are already punished and they are already aggravated by the Criminal Code we have. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is why the initiatives that deserve our reflection today are merely symbolic, as Mr Correia has also acknowledged. And if approved, they would give rise to incomprehensible structural inequalities, when we take into account a very broad set of other victims who already deserve enhanced protection under criminal law, and so far all such victims, including security forces agents, are grouped into the same regulatory solution. Ask yourself, will we also create autonomous crimes for these other victims? How many crimes against physical integrity and honor are we supposed to be based on the quality of the victims? For teachers, judges, health professionals, etc. etc. etc. Is that what you're talking about? Question: do we need to start fixing seats on shelves for a seven-volume Penal Code? These two bills are very clear examples of the so-called « populism in criminal matters», but the problem is that a country like Portugal does not facilitate the task of making a populist discourse in criminal matters.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u57	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u58	The populists feed on fear and this talk of fear needs high crime rates. [[P.S.'s applause.]] So a country like Portugal, for a populist catastropheist, is in fact a sort of nightmare. Portugal is a country that, for the second consecutive year, arises in the third place in the safest countries of the world, a country with very low crime rates, when compared to the vast majority of developed countries, a country where the numbers of serious crime fell 42% between 2008 and 2018. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Now it can be said that they rose by 3 % in 2019, but in 10 years they fell consistently more than 40 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u59	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u60	And even in 2019, there was serious crime that decreased. For example, we had a 19% decrease in the number of homicides and general crime increased only 0, 7% after having consistently fallen over more than a decade. In summary, with regard to crime indexes, the latest RASI emphasizes that « 2019 results are the second lowest ever value ». Portugal is a country that insists on countering the diagnosis that it makes of populism. It is, in fact, this criminal populism which later is associated with the discourse of the « penate», as would be said in a brother-country. According to this discourse of the « penate », the most serious social problems would be resolved-CL-taking in the pen and aggravating the penalties or creating crimes that have already been created. Nothing easier, but nothing less useful! Victims are protected by social protection measures themselves, they are protected in many ways, but they are certainly not protected by merely symbolic amendments to the Penal Code. It is also not true that our criminal justice is mild and it is certainly not true that in Portugal it is little. In Portugal it is very, perhaps too much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u61	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u62	We are taking a long time because our average length of imprisonment is 32 months while the European average is about 8 months, and we are arresting many people, because our pre-COVID prison rate was 125 prisoners per 100 000 inhabitants when the European average is only 106 prisoners per 100 000 inhabitants. It should also be emphasized that the crimes against life and physical integrity committed against authority agents are among the priorities and guidelines of the criminal policy proposed for the biennium 2020 / 2022, in accordance with the Proposal for a Law No 46 / XIV / 1. a, which has already entered this Parliament. Crimes against security forces and services will therefore be priority crime of prevention and repression. [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Telmo Correia.]] On the other hand, I would also like to stress that the numbers do not confirm the significant increase in crimes against security forces agents, which are the assumption of these legislative initiatives. Far from it! The following numbers are the official numbers of the Annual Internal Security Report: in 2019, in more than 44,500 officers of the security forces and services—which, I repeat, deserve all our respect, but also all our truth—there were, fortunately, zero dead and, unfortunately, eight wounded with hospitalization. But also the number of injuries without hospitalization decreased in 2019, compared to 2018 : there were fewer than 72 injuries without hospitalization in 2019 than had been in 2018. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The figures continued to decline in the first half of 2020, compared with the same period in 2019. in the PSP, in the first half of 2020, there were fewer 15, 4 % aggressions. The reason why we will not vote in favour of these bills is, therefore, above all one: we want to continue to protect our security forces and services by means of measures that have a real impact and that are not of mere punitive hardening. Several of these measures with real impact have been taken, in accordance with the Infrastructure Programming and Security Services Equipment Act, in accordance with the multiannual admission plan, with regard to the payment of retroactives relating to supplements not paid during the holiday period between 2010 and 2018 and also with regard to the agenda for dialogue with trade union structures. I conclude by saying that we know that the way a society treats crime is one of the main tests to its civilization and that we recognize the essential role of security forces and services agents in defending freedom and order. Human rights and public security are not antonyms, but must walk with a given, incindible arm, Siamese brothers never to separate, as Eduardo Galeano would say. We want to protect our security forces by promoting a culture of respect that applies to all: respect for our security forces and services agents and respect for all citizens with whom they deal every day. Citizens always, all of them. Citizens and never enemies. Citizens who know that it is better to light candles than to curse darkness. A culture of peace is what will protect us all and also what will, above all, protect the effectiveness of our security forces and services. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice President Editi Estrela.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u63	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr José Manuel Pureza, from the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u64	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Cláudia Santos, let us be frank: what the CDS wants with this debate is to make a championship with the Arrival. That's all that is at stake here.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u65	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u66	in fact, the CDS wants to argue with the Reach the discourse that the higher the penalties are, the less disrespect there will be for the police and that the authority of the State will measure by the size of the penalties. This is a championship between the CDS and the Arrival. It is an extreme-right championship, it is a kind of "Liga dos Ultimos" that we watch with some fun up there, but far away. Now, the CDS is right about one thing, and I want to stress this: successive governments have indeed disrespected security forces and services in our country. Therefore, the serious question is how it is disrespected and how security forces and services are respected in Portugal. It is about this, Mrs. Member, that I would like to question, on behalf of the Left Block. Police are disrespected every year talking about an admission plan in the security forces and services, and each year the exits are higher than the admissions. That's disrespect! In fact, Mr Telmo Correia, a short time ago, said, well, from the top of the rostrum, that it is. A persistent decrease in the number of effectives, as the RASI numbers have shown to satiety, is clearly a disrespect for those who rule by security forces and services. Police are disrespected every year weaving hymns and praises to the Infrastructure Programming Act and always ensuring that there will be new teams and new posts, but every year it will always be up to do so. We are, in fact, one year from the end of the multiannual investment programme and the truth is that the promises are still made and the reality remains obsolescence of means, lack of equipment, etc. etc. Police are being disrespected every year promising that, now, the pay tables will be reviewed, now that the rules for career progression will be uniformed, now that the risk allowance will be materialized and then none of this will happen. In addition, a judicial decision was needed for the current Government to assume its obligation to pay the pay supplements per day of an unlawfully cut holiday in the PSP, and even that payment was deferred because it should have entered into force with the 2020 Budget. Finally, Mrs Cláudia Santos, honouring successive commitments to the PSP, the GNR the other security forces and services is the respect that is required for democracy and that democracy, we have not always assumed how it should, giving the flank, so that afterward there will be championships between the CDS and the Arrival in this matter. The question I want to ask the Socialist Party, on behalf of the Left Block, is whether it agrees that the valorization and the dignity of the conditions of the performance of the police forces are made, above all, by the rights of work and by the appropriate financing of these forces and whether the Socialist Party will be, in government, fully consistent with that understanding, as I hope it is. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u67	Mrs Cláudia Santos, I inform you that, although late in asking for further clarifications, another Member, I ask you if you want to answer one to one or all.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u68	I answer one by one, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u69	You then have the floor to respond to Mr José Manuel Pureza's request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u70	Mr President, Mr José Manuel Pureza, thank you very much for the question you kindly addressed to me. We agree with the essentials and the 'League of the First', that is, we agree with the understanding that we protect the security forces and services by dignifying the exercise of their duties and not opting for a speech, which is the most dangerous thing we can have when we want to protect our police officers, from the creation of enemies - in fact, when we look back to other countries in our cultural context, we see that the countries where police kill more citizens are also the countries where more police die. Therefore, we agree essentially: protecting the agents of our security forces and services is, above all, creating conditions for them to perform their duties in a dignified manner. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u71	With regard to this point, I would like to point out that since 2017 we have been delivering a Law on Infrastructure Programming and Security Services Equipment, since that date more than half a hundred police facilities, more than 1200 cars, 12 234 weapons and accessories, 30,032 personal protection equipment and 4085 equipment for specialized functions have been delivered. I would also like to stress that, despite the fact that there is now an understandable delay in admissions and also now related to the COVID-19 pandemic, since training has necessarily been delayed for some time, we all know — the Left Block also knows, because it has participated in the approval of this State budget — that the multiannual admission plan provides for 10 000 entries in our security forces and services until 2023. I would also like to underline the following: in March, the payment of retroactives for supplements not paid during the holiday period between 2010 and 2018 will be initiated;...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u72	In March of what year? Oh, my God! 10 years from now! Is that what you're talking about?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u73	... in August this year will be paid the first instalment and the second instalment will be paid in December; in 2020, this year will be paid 16, 4 million euros to the GNR and 12, 1 million euros to the PSP. I have a long list of numbers on career progressions either in the PSP or in the GNR, but abstaining-CL-I will -I'm messing up this House listing these numbers. I would also like to stress another aspect that seems very important to me: the MAI (Ministry of Internal Administration) presented to the trade union structures an Agenda for Social Dialogue and Action for Legislation and, according to this action, there is a specific diploma on safety and health at work, and this diploma is being concluded. Finally, I would also like to point out that 32 local security contracts have been concluded and 22 local security projects amounting to €1,436 000 have so far been financed. We therefore agree essentially, Mr President, that this is why our security forces and services are being protected. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u74	For clarifications, Mr André Neves of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u75	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, within the framework of internal security and the authority of the State, there is a subject that needs to be brought to the debate. Mrs Cláudia Santos pointed out the positive aspects, but partly ignored the concerns and negative aspects of this issue. In December last year, eight illegal immigrants landed on our Algarve coast, who were identified by our security forces, and four allegedly were not identified and fled. In January this year, 11 illegal immigrants again landed, all of them identified by our security forces. Between December and January, we had a total of 19 illegal immigrants identified by the security forces and those 19 — we recently learned through the news — 14 are on the run. Run! We just don't know about your whereabouts! More recently, in June, we had two more landings of illegal immigrants, one with 6 and the other with 22 illegal immigrants, and all of these landings were identified and seen by popular or local fishermen, which means we do not know the real reality of numbers. Now, if we don't know the real reality of numbers, we don't know the real reality of the problem either. This situation is aggravated by the fact that we are living a time of pandemic with the normal consequences that this brings. Recently, the SIS (Security Information Service ) — and this is important — came to say in the Annual Internal Security Report the following, and I will quote, «It is seen as particularly worrying for internal security the increase in migration flows recorded in the western Mediterranean route. Do not keep on seeking. ” But although all the requirements and needs from the humanitarian point of view seem to have been met, and well, say, the truth is that this is seen in this way by omission, by inability, by incompetence of our Government, by our State to deal with the situation, particularly on the issue of escapes, because, in fact, we have illegal immigrants on the run, after being, repeat, identified and hosted by the Portuguese State. Mrs. Member, this is worrying, why? Because it passes very clear signals and messages to the outside. I refer to two concrete messages. The first message is to discredit the Portuguese State before the European partners. On a matter that is worrying and sensitive, we are telling our European partners that we cannot deal with it, we do not know what to do. The second message, no less important, is for criminals or human traffickers, for those who make these illegal immigration routes a business. What we are saying is that in Portugal there is a route of illegal immigration which is highly successful and, of course, what is going to happen is a growth of this problem, which we cannot ignore. The fact is that the Minister of Internal Administration, when asked about the matter, was to ridicule the numbers and devalue the problem.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u76	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u77	Mr Foreign Minister, when asked about the same subject, what made it ridiculous and devalue the problem. We know that the current government has — and the former government also had — a serious problem in dealing with the functions of sovereignty. It's been that way and it's going on! It is because monitoring our coast, internal security is a problem of sovereignty.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u78	How can that be said? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u79	Now, what matters to know here, sirs. Members, it is if the Socialist Party, which supports the government, also devalues the matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u80	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u81	What matters to know here is whether, after the call of attention from the SIS to say that this is a matter of concern, the honourable Members. Members of the Socialist Party will continue to pretend that this is not a problem. [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u82	In reply, Mrs Cláudia Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u83	Madam President, Mr André Neves, thank you very much for your questions. We don't devalue the subject. The problem is that this is not the subject of today; that was the subject of Tuesday. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] It was a matter which was widely debated last Tuesday when the Director of the Foreign and Border Service — indeed, a hearing requested by the PSD — had the opportunity to raise all these issues. Today's agenda relates to two bills and a draft resolution that has nothing to do with the subject that Mr has decided to bring to us.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u84	Answer, answer!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u85	In any case, from what I said, there remains a concern in some distressing way: does the PSD really want to associate the subject of migrants with the subject of crime? Is that what you want to do in this debate? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u86	Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Parliamentary Group of the Greens has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u87	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS has chosen criminal matters for its power agenda. To this end, it presents us with three legislative initiatives, or to aggravate the criminal framework for crimes already foreseen and therefore already enshrined in the Criminal Code or for the creation of new types of crime. It also proposes to recommend to the Government what we all know that the Government is constitutionally prevented from doing because these are matters reserved for the Assembly of the Republic. Nevertheless, the CDS proposes to recommend that the Government change the qualification of danger in relation to the crime of spread of disease, and no longer be a crime of concrete danger in order to become an abstract crime of danger. And in that case, the CDS does not even hide the objective of this amendment: to facilitate proof, to facilitate incrimination. In addition, it further recommends that the Government increase the criminal framework currently envisaged for this crime. In other words, everything that the CDS-PP proposes is as follows: new crimes, aggravated criminal frameworks for crimes already covered by the Criminal Code and the simplification of evidence to criminalize and recommend to the Government that it does what it cannot do alone, as has already been mentioned. But these CDS proposals are not surprising because, basically, they are answers to problems that are in line with what the CDS-PP has been getting used to over time. When the fragility of the State's ability to respond properly to the country's problems comes to the top, the solution of the CDS is in the Criminal Code. So it was always that we were confronted with the gravity and size of forest fires and this is now the facet of this collective threat that stands over all of us. Crimes, aggravated criminal frameworks and even amendments to the Criminal Code to facilitate the production of evidence, with the sole aim of being easier to incriminate. at a time like the one we live in, in the face of the COVID-19 pandemic, it is fair to say that the security forces and services had an absolutely decisive importance for the compliance of the rules. And they were of great importance not only with regard to the supervision of commercial activities but also with regard to border control and in many other operations. And we even agree with the CDS, when it says that it is necessary to dignify these professionals, but we understand that it is not by criminal means that the profession of security forces agent is dignified. The dignity of these professionals is the creation of conditions to enable them to develop their functions and responsibilities, in particular with the provision of the necessary and appropriate technical means. It is also due to more effective hiring, because the lack of staff is jeopardizing the strikes of these professionals and even their vacations. The dignity of these professionals is due to the total defrosting of agents' careers, with fair wages and the full payment of working hours, because what is happening now is that there are professionals who work 150 to 300 hours a month, without any compensation. Therefore, in our view, this is where we must walk if, in fact, we want to dignify the profession of security forces and services agent and not through amendments to the Criminal Code to aggravate penalties or criminal frameworks and much less to create mechanisms to facilitate the proof in order to make criminalization easier. On the aggravating of penalties, it is worth recalling that it is practically peaceful between the doctrine that the criminal officer, in general cases, acts independently of the criminal framework provided for in that conduct, which often, in fact, when he acts, does not even have in mind the true dimension of that criminal frame. As regards the change in the quality of the danger, concrete to abstract, in the crime of disobedience, which the CDS proposes, I mean the following: even if it is the legislator—and here the legislator is the Assembly of the Republic and not the Government, as the CDS-PP well knows—that decides that certain actions should be considered as a crime, even if they do not present an effective risk or harm, the motivation of the CDS for this amendment is at least strange in a state of democratic law. What the CDS-PP wants is that the crime of spread of disease becomes an abstract danger crime, only for one purpose: simplify the evidence to facilitate incrimination. And this is a dangerous path, because now we change the quality of the crime to be easier to incriminate and then what will come? The end of the presumption of innocence?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u88	Oh! Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u89	The end of the defence warranties of the defendants? No, the Greens do not want this path and will therefore vote against the three proposals that the CDS-PP brings us today for discussion.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u90	For an intervention, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u91	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I suspect that this 'liberal minute' will displease those heads who like to see the world black and white. There are some heads who like to distort the positions of the Liberal Initiative by saying that we don't want any state and they label us right. There are other heads that look at our defense of freedom of customs and label us on the left. These heads do not conceive that we are even liberal, that we defend the freedom of people in all domains and that this fits poorly into this left-right axis with only two colors. The small and strong state we want must be able to defend individual freedoms against its enemies, against the most powerful and the most powerful ones, starting with the state itself. Thus, whenever the relationship of power between individual persons and the State is at stake, we will always take the defense of people. Security forces and services deserve our recognition for their important role, but this does not overlap with people's rights. This is about not being able to follow this set of CDS proposals. In particular, Resolution Project No 535 / XIV / 1. a, which proposes to aggravate the penalties applicable to the crime of disobedience in time of pandemic. at a time when the freedoms of citizens are restricted without sufficient evidence of this being even necessary, at a time when the government intends to monitor the hate speech — it is defined there by whom — on social networks, the CDS, instead of questioning these things, wants to increase the penalties to which these things are being questioned. Be a shop that sells a beer out of hours or a group of 11 friends in a garden.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u92	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u93	Yes, Madam President. Increased penalties and more repression are not the way a liberal can agree on. And it is a pity that the CDS shows here that it no longer has a resistance to Lucas Pires's liberal tradition.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u94	Mr António Filipe of the CFP Parliamentary Group speaks for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u95	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is known that the increase in criminal frameworks does not solve any problem of crime. This is demonstrated throughout the world, so insisting on it, always insisting on it, it is not rational, it is only populist.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u96	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u97	And we know that populism is not rational and that is why populists insist on this kind of proposal. Mr Telmo Correia said a short time ago that, according to the data he has sought here to demonstrate, but that, by the way, RASI is going to deny,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u98	Don't lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u99	... has increased the number of crimes, including assaults, against elements of the police forces. But if the logic was that, Mr President, we would have caught every year in the Annual Report on Internal Security, we would see which crimes had increased and increased the penalties and then, inter alia, we would see the crimes whose number had dropped and lowered the penalties, i.e., we would do a sort of stock exchange here, corresponding the number of crimes to the severity of the penalties. Of course, I am caricatured, but you, with the kind of initiatives you are presenting, as well as deserve caricature. Mr Telmo Correia said a few years ago that the CDS has been expressing concerns about police forces in this House. But if we get along well, this concern has something to bipolar, because if we remember and turn back to the last quarter of the century, we find that the CDS, between 1995 and 2002, was concerned and presented proposals at the time of the opposition; then between 2002 and 2005 the CDS stopped worrying and at the time it was in the government; but then between 2005 and 2011 the CDS again concerned itself and presented proposals for security forces; and then between 2011 and 2015 the CDS stopped worrying about and we stopped seeing CDS initiatives in this House on security forces.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u100	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u101	The CDS, from October 2015 until now, has again become concerned, and I hope that the CDS will continue to care for many and good years in this House, because it is a sign that it is not in government.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u102	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u103	Mrs. Members, with this increase in penalties, what the CDS proposes here is a total imbalance in relation to our legal-criminal order, I would even say, « without feet or heads». In other words, if we think of the most serious penalties that the CDS proposes here, we will see that a crime of offense to physical integrity, serious, if it is against an element of security forces, is more serious than the most serious of sexual crimes committed with violence. Does this make any sense? Oh, my God! Is it more serious an assault on an element of a police force—even if it is serious, obviously, and that is why it is a crime—than a violation committed with violence? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u104	You're right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u105	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this makes no sense at all! In addition to other things, how they propose to aggravate the damage crimes, if they are against elements of the security forces. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, crimes of harm are crimes against things, they are not crimes against people! Then they propose that crimes against honour, injury and defamation be more serious if committed against elements of the security forces. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, is people's honor measurable as to their role? Oh, my God! in the case of a defamation that questions the reputation of a person, does that person not have the same degree of guardianship, regardless of the profession or function he performs? Oh, my God! Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, from our point of view, this makes no sense at all! Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the CDS presents these initiatives thinking that it pleases the police. Mr Telmo Correia, I, if I were a cop, didn't like it.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u106	But look that's not what they're saying!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u107	And I thought: "Then these gentlemen who, when they were in the government, cut me the Christmas allowance and the holiday allowance, did nothing strictly to improve my socio-professional conditions or equipment, nor the material conditions for the exercise of my function, and didn't pay us the supplements during the holidays, those that only now, after a great struggle, are we able to get paid, so these gentlemen now think we like to say that they will increase the penalties, if there are aggressions against elements of the security forces? Oh, my God! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u108	Who approved all previous budgets? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u109	Mr. Member, if I were a member of a security force,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u110	I'm glad it's not!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u111	...I did not like it, even because the way you intend, with these initiatives, to treat the elements of the security forces only reduces them. The elements of the security forces have a dangerous function, a risk function, which deserves recognition, including in terms of remuneration. Now, surely, the police do not like to be treated as « small people», they are not particularly vulnerable victims, they are security professionals, they have a state mandate, they have a merit, which must be recognised by the political power, but not through initiatives of this nature, which place the elements of the security forces at the level of the most vulnerable victims, which they are not.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u112	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u113	I will finish, Madam President. Therefore, the respect that is due to the elements of the security forces is not manifest in any way as the CDS does here. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u114	Mrs Joana Sá Pereira of the PS Parliamentary Group was appointed to request clarification. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u115	Madam President, I begin by saying that the Socialist Party is giving the necessary time for Mr António Filipe to be able to answer. Mr António Filipe, I believe that we are not essential. We need to continue to strengthen and enhance the role of extraordinary importance of the men and women who are part of our security forces, who every day contribute decisively to making our country one of the safest in the world. Allow me, at this difficult time that we all go through, congratulate all of them, who have been and are absolutely essential in the counseling and implementation of all public health and safety measures, ensuring the necessary protection for all of us. The Portuguese trust and respect the security forces. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Data from the Eurobarometer of the beginning of this year show that they are even the state structure in which the Portuguese most trust. To value those who defend and protect us - this is the debate we are having here today. And what is clear from the CDS is that only security forces are valued by acting in harmony with the Criminal Code. This is not the vision of the PS. To dignify and value all police and GNR professionals is essentially made in three axes. First, by strengthening the number of effectives—and here we highlight, as has already been said, the multiannual plan which was entered in the State budget for this year, which provides for the admission of 10 000 new elements to the security forces by 2023. Secondly, by improving their working conditions, which has gradually been achieved. Third, recognising remuneration justice. This is what the Government is doing, beginning, soon, the phased replacement of 114 million retroactive euros on unpaid holiday supplements. [[PSD Member Protest Duarte Marques.]] We would be failing all these professionals who defend the rule of democratic law and guarantee the safety and freedom of all of us if we told them that we only valued them with a touch of makeup in criminal law. This debate really needs another serious debate and, therefore, Mr António Filipe, I ask you, it is understood that the effort and trajectory that we are collectively making, to dignify the professionals of the security forces, is consistent with this charming operation that the CDS intends to carry out, in despair by the leadership of the populist agenda in Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u116	Mr António Filipe has the floor to reply.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u117	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am grateful for the question and also for the time that the Socialist Party has made available for me to respond. Madam Member, I could no longer agree with what you say, but I would add that the good words are not enough. Indeed, it is necessary for the security forces and services professionals to recognize in concrete terms the merit of their action. That's fundamental.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u118	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u119	It is therefore essential that their trade unions be respected by political power, that they be heard and taken into account the socio-professional demands of the State servants who, for many years, have seen their careers frozen, their subsidies cut, which have in fact been abused in their living and working conditions, on missions that obviously call into question the possibility of reconciling their professional life with their family life. So we have to have a very special attention. Indeed, the words are not enough, these professionals need to feel that there is a concrete recognition, in particular by the Government. We must not be praised, but there must be concrete measures so that they can feel that their life improves and that they are somehow compensated for the risks, the penosity and the importance of their duties. That's the only way populism is...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u120	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u121	... and if they prevent initiatives like these that we are discussing today, whose authors seek to give the illusion that they are effectively defending the interests of the police, when they are not. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u122	Mr André Coelho Lima, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u123	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The subject for which we are called today is referred to as the 'State Authority and Citizens' Security'. That's right. A theme of enormous density, the debate of one of the pillars of State sovereignty, served only as an entry to highlight a set of legislative proposals from the CDS. Proposals which do not, indeed, aim to debate or reflect on the authority of the State or the extent to which it is endangered; which do not, in fact, aim to debate or reflect on the safety of citizens or the extent to which it has been put in question; they aim only at a sort of demarcation of the security political territory, which is now more disputed. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the first message that needs to be made clear is that for the PSD the authority of the state and the defense of our security forces is not thematic to be treated in passing or to be used to highlight legislative initiatives. The PSD will not contribute to this stalwart manicism that insists on trying to divide our society into security political forces and libertarian political forces. in which they manifest themselves by strengthening the authority of the police forces and in those who express themselves in favour of strengthening individual freedoms.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u124	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u125	We are, as always, by moderation, by balance. We will always be defenders of individual freedoms, in fact constitutionally consecrated, but always defending that the State and its agents have the necessary conditions for the exercise of their authority. The PSD is therefore in the absolutely intransigent defense of our security forces and police forces, but providing them with capable means of protection and investing in their individual capacity. It will certainly not be increasing criminal frameworks of crimes committed against security forces or security services that create an inhibitor to which such crimes are committed. The PSD is for the valorization of our security forces, as you guarantee, par excellence, of the protection and protection of citizens, but defending the dignified treatment that is due to those whose life is dedicated to making us feel safe and not, certainly, creating a new legal type of crime of offense to the physical integrity and honor of security forces and services agents. Of course we do not consider acceptable phrases such as those seen in a demonstration in Portugal, showing the saying « a good cop is a dead cop », an unacceptable generalizing catalogue of police behaviour, to more than an irresponsible association of police repression phenomena that have nothing to do with the reality of our country. But, without prejudice to the matter which naturally falls to the courts to judge, a firm word of unequivocal rejection by the Minister of Internal Administration, at the most responsible for the State security forces and services, defending our security forces and our agents and creating a clear demarcation of the irresponsible associations that they have sought to do. [[PSD applause.]] Defending the authority of the State, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not a matter of having no lukewarmness in defending the honorability of our agents, such as having no hesitation in condemning those whose behaviours are worthy of it. But, in any case, what the PSD will not be clearly available is to promote changes to the Criminal Code in an episode, hanging on phenomena that make up the news. The Portuguese know that they do not have the PSD to present legislative proposals for amending fundamental diplomas, as is clearly the case with the Criminal Code, as a reaction to events that do not have the degree of maturity and repetition that justify us to do so. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : To speak in strengthening the State authority is not to accept the decrease in security forces and services by about 2 %, despite what the multi-annual admission plan says. To speak in strengthening the State authority is not to resign with the implementation of only 60 % of the Law on Programming Infrastructure and Equipment of the Forces and Security Services, although it is always repeatedly used by the Socialist Party. To speak in strengthening the State authority is to follow the fair demands of the agents as regards the conditions of their workplaces and the provision of personal protective equipment. To speak in strengthening the authority of the State is not to have to watch, yes, Mrs.Claúdia Santos, our rulers describe as ridiculous the concerns with the landings of immigrants in the Algarve,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u126	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u127	... then being these statements ridiculed with the information of our security services and the European Borders Agency itself, clearly expressing its concern at the impact in Portugal of illegal immigration networks operating from Morocco. And, yes, Mrs. Member, the issue is not crime, it is the authority of the State, and this is the denial of the authority of the State. [[PSD applause.]] To speak in strengthening the authority of the State is, in a word, to fight for the dignity of the police and the civil security forces that, more than authority, ensure respect for the State and its determinations. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This debate is also dedicated to the safety of citizens, which appears mixed with the authority of the State, but one is not, of course, necessarily the consequence of the other. There is no direct or causal relationship between them. And as far as there is to be said about this issue, we believe it is particularly important to strengthen here the concern that the PSD has already expressed in different forums for the importance of the political and regulatory development of the concept of health security. Health safety is perhaps the most relevant concern of the citizens and the State today. It is, let us say, the potentially causing circumstance of greater fears and doubts in the full use of the public space. We find ourselves, as we know, in the full pandemic of the COVID-19, where the almost undetectable forms of transmission of the virus have brought to our day-to-day an understandable fear of practices and acts that we all used almost automatically. We can without hesitation say that, in the perception of the citizens, this is certainly the greatest security problem they experience today, so in response to this, also in this new normal dimension, it must be absolutely priority to return the attention of the rulers and the security forces to this new reality of our day. As a result, it is crucial that we look at the criminal and counter-ordinative regulations to protect and safeguard this new need for security which also has a legal-criminal impact. Specific and concrete guidelines should therefore be set up for security forces and services, with a view to transmitting to the citizen the sense of security that it is essential that all have with a view to the progressive resumption of our economy. As it is also necessary to adapt our legal order to the new obligations that have been imposed on citizens, many of them with doubts or even no legal and constitutional coverage, which must be organized and restructured in the face of this new reality. It was, in fact, precisely in view of this concern that the PSD has recently introduced a draft resolution which advocates the implementation of concrete measures at airports and terminals of Portuguese cruises, with a view to containing the possibilities of transmission and transmitting security to those who visit us. Recognizing the importance of tourism in our country and sensitive to fears of epidemiological progression, this draft resolution meets precisely the concept of health security. in the same way, the pre-announced English lock down to Portugal is also the evident demonstration that the concept of health security presents to our country and to our economy a huge importance. Based on reasons without adequate scientific support, it is true that this former ally has been prepared since a treaty concluded in Guimarães in 1372, in order not to authorize travel of its nationals to Portugal, in so far as it relies exclusively on an idea of lack of health security that may have very serious economic impacts.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u128	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u129	In conclusion, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the new normal has an impact on the concept of State authority, but above all it has an impact on the safety of citizens. It is for these issues that our efforts, concrete issues with which we can help our country and not for episodes legal amendments of merely safe charis. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u130	Mr André Coelho Lima, the Bureau records the registration of Mrs Isabel Rodrigues of the PS Parliamentary Group to request clarifications. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u131	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr André Coelho Lima, I would like to begin by welcoming you on the part of your intervention which demarcates from this secure political territory in which the proposals presented by the CDS-PP are translated today and on which this discussion is taking place on the authority of the State. In fact, we believe that whenever there is criminal behaviour with respect to any citizen or security officer this behaviour must be investigated, tried and punished in accordance with the law. We support the strengthening of criminal punishment, which goes no further than in the sense of authoritarianism, which we refuse, because we believe that the State must continue to be a state of law and democracy and that these initiatives do not help in this regard. As far as you are concerned, there is another part to which you refer, in addition, in line with what you have done here during the discussion of the State budget, which we cannot accept the reduction in the effectiveness of the conditions of places of work, as regards the implementation of the Programming Act. I would like to ask you if you do not think that having now a Law on Infrastructure Programming and Security Services Equipment, which at least allows us to define objectives, but above all to evaluate implementations, is a very positive step not only in planning the work that needs to be done in this area but also in monitoring and monitoring the political action of the Government. I also asked you whether the multi-annual strengthening envisaged in the State budget for 2020, but already with a strengthening of 2500 agents by 2020, of which more than 570 have already completed their training, is not a positive step towards recognizing the undeniable value of security forces in the country. On the issue of installations, he will certainly know the country very well and will recognize that many of the facilities that are now planned to intervene did not reach the state of degradation in the last five or six years. I would say, moreover, that there are responsibilities shared by several governments in this area, but we know that with the Government of the Socialist Party, we have come to make a set of investments and we have so many other plans. He recalled that in addition to those in the Infrastructure Programming Act, for example in 2020 there are EUR 93 million in protocols with local authorities. Therefore, Mr President, my question is whether we agree that, especially in recent years, significant steps have been taken, and that there will certainly be much more to be done for the continued strengthening and dignity of the security forces. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u132	To reply, Mr André Coelho Lima has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u133	Mrs President, Mrs Isabel Rodrigues, I thank you for the questions you have asked and the considerations you have raised. With regard to the comments you are asking me, which are basically questions and comments, I would like to say to you that the PSD has expressed itself at the right time in favour of creating a programming law like the one we are talking about, and that is known. As for the fact that you say that the poor state of the facilities is shared by several governments — and you tried to get a little back to see if you could still get to our government — I would like to say that it is shared by the history of our country. however, you are already in the government for six years and, therefore, it is time to stop using what is behind you and take on what you have as your responsibility. [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests from PS deputy Isabel Rodrigues.]] Secondly, with regard to the strengthening provided for in the State budget for 2020 and also with regard to the Infrastructure and Equipment Programming Act of the Forces and Security Services, the answer is the same, and if I may take the dare, I give advice. The Socialist Party always has this tactic to debate the Budget all year round and then forget to debate what has been executed.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u134	Don't!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u135	Throughout the year, they debate what they intend to do, but then they never remember discussing what they actually did, which is always far from what they intend to do. That's good to deceive your left partners, but not us! [[Protests from PS deputy Isabel Rodrigues.]] They always go in this rush of budgets, but then they forget to check out the execution. [[PSD applause.]] But, honourable Member, at this bench, we can tell you that the Programming Act is 60 % of implementation and, according to the planned programming, it should already be ahead of that amount. This advice that I wanted to give has to do with the following: we are in a different year, in a difficult year, so if I may, I would advise the Socialist Party to stop hanging in the 2020 Budget because, to many, the projections they are making may go out holes. Let us all hope not, but now is the time to start discussing what is actually done and not just what is told to Parliament and the country that is intended to do. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u136	For an intervention, you have the floor of Mrs.Cristina Rodrigues.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u137	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The activity carried out by the personnel of the security forces and services is subject to strong pressure and wear, requiring an increasing capacity for action and competence without due compensation. by contact with traumatic situations, by the risk of death and by high levels of stress and anxiety, the mental health and well-being of these professionals are constantly at stake, being the suicide rate, in these cases, the double of the verified in the population in general. It is therefore necessary to improve the working conditions of the professionals of the security forces and services, promoting the necessary wage valuation, the allocation of the risk allowance, the increase of training and training of these professionals, and the strengthening of their follow-up at the level of mental health. I recognize the goodness of the initiatives presented by the CDS, however, it is important to find a balance between the protection of security forces and the freedom of citizens and I have doubts that these projects find that balance. It is time to value these professionals from the front line, which, now in the context of pandemics, have given so much to all of us, assuming that recognizing and protecting these professionals is the only way to ensure the safety of citizens.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u138	Mr Joacine Katar Moreira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u139	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : These legislative initiatives reveal the authoritarian vein of the CDS, rather than the democratic way, and also reveal the exaltation of a punitive culture, contrary to the democratic demands of the 21st century. The CDS forgets that the security forces are civilian forces and not military forces... [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP João Pinho de Almeida.]] ...and forget that we are in a democratic state and a democratic state needs democratic security forces. We must mention this: what characterizes a democratic society are security forces subject to the rule of law and which incorporate the values of human dignity, rather than the desires of a party, are security forces that intervene in the lives of citizens and citizens under limited and controlled circumstances, are publicly responsible security forces. What is at stake here is not this populist CDS wave, what is at stake here is solving the issue of lack of effective security forces, and that is what we should focus on at this very moment.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u140	For an intervention, Mrs Sandra Cunha of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u141	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: The CDS has chosen to bring here today a number of initiatives that are not truly surprising. The option for security, repressive and authoritarian policy is not new in the CDS. The CDS wants to aggravate the criminal frame of the crime of disobedience and move into the crime of the spread of the disease, because it aligns with the the thesis of individual responsibility—and this is clear in the project's explanatory statement — to explain the increase in cases of infection in the Lisbon region and choose to ignore what are the material conditions of each and each one to cope with the crisis and to protect themselves from the disease, choose to ignore that the conditions of housing in many neighborhoods do not protect from the disease nor offer security, choose to ignore the poor working conditions of many workers and many workers,... [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP João Pinho de Almeida.]] ... choose to ignore that people even depend on public transport to go to work and have no choice but to travel like canned sardines to bring some, which is always park, money home. To speak of the high privilege gives in this: a completely distorted view of reality, a deep ignorance of the real world and of the real people, a disregard for the class issue, which is decisive in the ability of each and every one to face the health crisis and the social and economic crisis, and the insistence, above all, on punishing and repressing. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP João Pinho de Almeida.]] But the CDS speech also has no adherence to reality when it presents a scenario on the edge of a civil war, in which the people will always be at the throat of ways to circumvent the rules, to disobey, to challenge and to attack the authorities. Portugal is the third most peaceful country in the world, taking the first place among the countries of the European Union, according to the data of the Institute for Economics and Peace, which demonstrates the stability of our country in reducing crime in a persistent manner. To this end they contribute the work of the security forces, which we praise, the implementation of social inclusion policies, the social support given to those most in need, the reintegration policies, the fight against hatred and racism...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u142	I hate cops on the left side of the block!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u143	... that has been instigated by extreme right-wing groups that seek to pass a false image of insecurity and thus justify the need for increased repression measures and to which the CDS, with these initiatives, supports. However, they fail both in the diagnosis and in the prescription. The feeling of security is given by the work of the security forces, but also, above all, preventively, through the implementation of policies that previously make the diagnosis of the phenomena of violence, so that the best weapons can be chosen to combat them. What does the CDS propose? Does the CDS propose to undo the obstacles to the rights and working conditions that have so much effort to mount, while they were government, with the PSD, with the austerity policies that they imposed? Don't! Does the CDS propose more cars for the police, more conditions, more wages, risk supplement?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u144	Every year, every year!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u145	Mr Telmo Correia said that the CDS had already made these proposals, but I was a little confused,... [[CDS-PP protests.]] ... because I didn't realize if it did it while it was government, with the PSD, a few years ago.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u146	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u147	I didn't realize it was that time you did it! Is that what you're talking about?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u148	Fez, when it was government!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u149	Fez, when it was government, he did!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u150	What the CDS proposes right now is to create a legal type of crime against the elements of security forces and services and dramatically increase the criminal frameworks of crimes against the officials of the authority, but what the CDS proposes does not do by the police. This is tricking the cops. It is that the dignity and appreciation of security forces and services begin by respecting the rights and improving the working conditions of these professionals, as regards their careers and their wages. As far as this is concerned, the CDS — the Portuguese know – the police know – and the CDS knows well – has blame on the card. We have all the appreciation of the security forces and services agents, we recognize their value, their commitment and the importance of their duties, and we defend their rights at every opportunity, but we do not have any appreciation for security and repressive options, which do not solve any problems of the police or society in general. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u151	For an intervention, Mrs Isabel Moreira of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u152	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I think it was clear to those who attended this debate that there are those who use the pandemic to instrumentalize security forces and thus deal with their pain of demarcation of borders on the right. in fact, a student of 9 values, of Law, could be here explaining to the CDS of the legal aberration that is to aggravate conduct that is already aggravated by the Penal Code or, more extraordinary, from impressions that the CDS says to have, to recommend to the Government — yes, to recommend — the exercise of the reserved competence of Parliament to increase structurally penalties, in response to a conjunctival moment and, imagine, to change a type of crime to facilitate the proof of it. The CDS has never been so far away from the seriousness with which it deals with criminal matters, because, in fact, the objective of the CDS — I insist — is not a real amendment to the Penal Code, tightening the penalties of the elderly who do not fulfil the duty of confinement, for example, but make safe arrangements. The CDS is at a crossroads and decided, as its right is, to try to get out of it competing in extreme, turning away from the populism that this debate has highlighted, feeding the imagination of an insecure country, with people who are highly non-compliant with the law, dangerous, very dangerous, with very high-risk security forces, thus, without shame, drawing the boiler that asks for heavy penalties, restrictions of rights, finally, what we know of the security derivatives. The worst thing is that the CDS uses the security forces and its righteous dissatisfaction to make its desperate need for demarcation of the Parliament comes a pretext for a parliamentary debate. It has been widely demonstrated in this debate that security forces do not need amendments to the Criminal Code. Your dignity, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it requires our respect, to begin with. Respect, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! [[CDS-PP protests.]] The appreciation of the security forces goes through their careers, through the facilities, through the cars, through the personal protective equipment, through serious investments under the municipal chambers. The valuation of security forces has to do with the multiannual admission plan, it has to do with wages, it has to do with progress. A debate about the security forces, about their valorization, is going through here and not through absurd promises of a harder penal code. The debate on the dignity of the security forces has to do with dialogue with their trade union structures, and we are available to speak in depth about all these issues, as has always happened. It does not count on the PS Parliamentary Group to enter into the dispute of space to the extreme right or between the CDS and it comes to account of the dignity of the security forces, by means of disrespecting the Portuguese people. They deserve us more respect. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u153	You have the floor, Mr Ventura, for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u154	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The debate that has been brought to us today here is extremely relevant. Since the beginning of this year—only this year! — practically 250 police officers were assaulted — 250! During the state of emergency, 87 police were assaulted! And some say: « Relax, we are the safest country in the world! » That interests this for eminently assaulted security forces, as happened 40 minutes ago, while we were here in Amadora, where police were again assaulted after trying to resolve a traffic issue. It was 40 minutes ago, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, it wasn't 40 years ago, not 4 years ago! It was 40 minutes ago! That should at least embarrass us for what we are doing here today. Today is the day of the PSP, and so far this debate makes more sense, because we should, yes, bow not to the ghosts of racism, but to the police who fight every day for us and for our safety. Mrs Cláudia Santos said that Portuguese justice is not easy. And it's not, we know it's not! In fact, just look at the cases of José Socrates and Ricardo Salgado to see how justice is fast, it is hard and works at the right times, how it should act! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u155	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u156	I will finish, Madam President. Today, our cops deserved at least the attention of power! And what is the attention of power? A government absent in a debate in the Assembly of the Republic on the police! Big shame couldn't be today! A government that doesn't even come to the Assembly of the Republic to defend its police!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u157	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u158	I will finish, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u159	You really have to conclude, Mr, you have already exceeded more than 50 % of your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u160	Thank you, Madam President, I will finish. They say time always comes. The time of the PS in this area will also come.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u161	Mr Duarte Marques of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u162	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The subject is the authority of the State and the safety of citizens. And, it is true, Portugal is, in several rankings, one of the safest countries in the world. This is how security is measured essentially through crime rates. But security is based on several factors, and one of them is undoubtedly related to the fires that, in recent years, have destroyed, without pain or mercy, the national territory. It is of no benefit to deny that the tragedies of the fires did not alter the perception of security on the part of citizens, especially those living in the interior and in the most deserted territories. The threat of fires has caused, and it causes, a feeling of insecurity, impotence and fragility that no citizen should be forced to experience. It is atrocious violence to see houses, jobs, cultures, inheritances, work of decades and lives being carried out by the flames one minute to the other. All this is revolting and violent, it is true, but what is most revolting is the lack of solutions to this problem and, in particular, the lack of humility and commitment of a government that, from year to year, postpones the reform of the forest, does not strengthen the efficiency of civil protection, the training of agents, the demand for leadership or coordination between forces on the ground and that seems increasingly concerned with the image and propaganda. If the government were as good at reforming as it is to promote our security, we were safe! The State authority is increasingly absent and the perception of insecurity does not result only from the fires and their threat. It is, yes, an increasing consequence of the presence of smaller effective forces of the security forces, in particular the GNR, reaching the point where in many areas of our country a single patrol is responsible for three councils. The elderly no longer feel safe at home. Parents hesitate during the holidays to leave their children with their grandparents in the villages of the interior. And that, yes, is also a tragedy! It is a social tragedy and a cultural tragedy: the childhood of many children and the old age of many grandparents is being undermined by the government's inefficiencies in security. In addition to the words and good intentions, the concern and presence of the security forces and the previous government is summed up, practically, to charge taxes, to clean the forest and to fine the owners. And it's important to say that if these forces don't do better is because they have no means or effective. Some teams are little better than barracks and those who still have conditions have them thanks to the municipal chambers.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u163	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u164	What does the government want to do in not looking at this problem in a serious and constructive way? May the interior become desert? What does it take to design beautiful policies when the main is missing? The main thing is security! Lack of security, and the government knows this and closes its eyes. The government closes its eyes, waiting for firefighters to extinguish fires. The Government closes its eyes and prays that nothing will happen, so that nature does not nude its inaction and that there will not be repeated moments like those living in Pedrogan. The permanent fragility of civil protection, the permanent delays in planning by the Internal Administration, the constants involved in the hiring of air assets and the lack of investment in training further undermine people's confidence and jeopardise citizens' security.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u165	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u166	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are not in time to ignore problems, but to seek solutions. Enough of half excuses, enough of half truths, enough of half reforms. It is time to speak truth and act accordingly. It is time to put aside ideologies and soundbytes and to defend the national interest and interests of people who pay taxes and who only see the right to security guaranteed in words and conversations. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is these failures, it is this incompetence, it is this inoperence that gives rise to populisms, because populisms only appear when the state fails in its mission and when political leaders deceive people, saying that they do things that do not go through roles and PowerPoints. Defending people is defending security forces, but it is, above all, defending the competence of those whom we have entrusted to play their role. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u167	Mr Duarte Marques, the Bureau has registered a Member to make requests for clarification. To that end, Mr Francisco Pereira Oliveira of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u168	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Duarte Marques, thank you very much for your words. On the issues you raised here, which do not have to do with today's debate,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u169	Don't you? Oh,
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u170	...I would like to clarify, in any case, those related to forests and firefighters. Mr Duarte Marques knows very well that the device that has been implemented this year brings together a greater number of effectiveness, a greater number of equipment and that has actually been on the ground and has been implemented in conditions.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u171	Nothing has to do with anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u172	Mr Duarte Marques knows the value and percentage he has added to this budget and also knows that the government is not only taking action on the issue of the fire attack but also on its prevention. We know — that is the policy that the government has maintained — that prevention is far more important than fighting effectively. The fight is certainly fundamental, but prevention is much more important. And they can verify by numbers and percentages that the values that are spent on fighting have fallen to the detriment of what prevention is. That is how we want to move forward. I understand that on the part of Mr Duarte Marques, there is the intention to say that everything is wrong, but I am just thinking about one thing: at the moment we do not need incendiary speeches, we do need to be on the side of the population, on the side of solving the problem and not on the side of the problem. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u173	You have the floor to answer, Mr Duarte Marques.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u174	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is symptomatic of the state of alienation of the Socialist Party that this is the second intervention by Members of that party who say that there are themes that are fundamental to the security of people and to the confidence of people in the rule of law and security forces who have nothing to do with this debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u175	Nothing has to do with this! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u176	Question: What are you doing here? What did you come here to do?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u177	It's true! It's true! [[Protests by PS MP Francisco Pereira Oliveira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u178	If there is an important issue for the safety of people, for example, is that of the safety of people who live inside. Or don't those count? Or isn't border security a rule of law? Oh, my God! Isn't this about people's safety? Oh, my God! [[PSD applause.]] For you, the security of people is achieved with figures in the State budget. But we already know, Mr President, that the figures in this State budget are just numbers. But they are circus numbers, because the State budgets of this government are not to be fulfilled, nor have they been fulfilled.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u179	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u180	Therefore, it does not tell us anything to say that there are more means if they are not on the ground, that there are more drones if they do not leave the hangars, that there are more forces on the ground if they do not work among themselves, that there are more military operating...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u181	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u182	I'm done now, Madam President. We don't need this number conversation unless they're effective. To disregard the safety of people from within is not to respect people from within, because unfortunately insecurity does not occur only in Amadora, Alto neighborhood, Almada or Porto, it is also recorded in the rest of the country! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u183	You now have the floor for an intervention by Mr Telmo Correia of the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u184	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In a brief way, and to close this discussion, I would like to say that during this debate we have sought to create the idea that the CDS would, with this proposal, be saying that in itself it would solve a problem that exists, which is serious, that is the lack of State authority. That's not true. This proposal, plus the State budgets, plus the means, plus what the Socialist Party here has proposed by 2020 and I don't know how many...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u185	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u186	I'm really finishing up, Madam President. I ask: who has always approved these State budgets? It was the Left Block, the PCP and the Socialist Party! Even at the end, Madam President, I would just like to say the following: You may speak of authority...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u187	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u188	The authority I stand for is the democratic authority. And, of both, we either defend the democratic authority of the state or don't complain about revolt, radicalism and populism.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u189	Mr. Deputies, you really have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u190	One thing is true: no one agrees, but where are the other proposals? We introduced ours and we will continue to do so, like it or not like it. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u191	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of this debate, we shall proceed to the vote on the diplomas that have been under consideration, as requested. We begin by voting, in general, the Bill No. 101 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — aggravated criminal framework for crimes committed against security forces agents ( 50. the amendment to the Penal Code). [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, doPSD, BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected, votes against CDS-PP and CH and the abstention of IL.]] We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 454 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Establishment of the legal type of crime of offence to the physical integrity and honour of security forces agent ( 50. the amendment to the Penal Code). [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, doPSD, BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected, votes against CDS-PP and CH and the abstention of IL.]] We now vote on the Resolution Project No 535 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — the creation of a regime effectively deterring the breach of obligations arising from the state of emergency or disaster. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, DoPSD, BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected and votes against the CDS-PP and CH.]] You now have the floor to Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha to make some announcements.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u192	Mr. President and Mrs. Members, have entered the Bureau, and have been admitted, the Resolution Projects Nos. 552 / XVI / 1. a ( PSD ) — the control of air transport that responds to the containment of the pandemic and the recovery of tourism, which falls to 1. the Commission, in connection with 6. the Commission, and 554 / XVI / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government allow the full implementation of the 2020 budget allocation for staff expenditure of the Political Accounts and Financing Entity, which falls to 5. the Commission, in connection with 1. the Commission. I also announce that you have been present at this session, by video conference, Mr Sérgio Marques, of the PSD, elected by the Autonomous Region of Madeira.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-02.u193	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the next plenary meeting shall take place tomorrow at 10 a.m. on the first item on the agenda by marking the NAP in accordance with Article 64(3)(b). the Rules of Procedure, a debate on telework. of the second point is the assessment of the rules avoked to plenary relating to the Proposal for a Law No 33 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Supplementary Budget by 2020. at the third item on the agenda, we shall proceed to the vote on the Rules of Procedure. We are thus at the end of our session today. Everyone wants a good rest of the day. See you tomorrow at ten o'clock. [[It was 17 hours and 30 minutes.]]
