ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, Mrs. Officers of authority. Let's start our work. [[It was 10 hours and 2 minutes.]] As you know, today's session will have two moments, one in the morning and one in the afternoon. The gentlemen. Members are already advised that, in the afternoon, as we shall have to proceed with a vote at almost the beginning of the work, or very little time has passed, the quorum count for deliberation will be opened at 3 p.m. Let us then take the next item on the agenda, the first item of which is the urgent debate required by the PSD Parliamentary Group, subject to the theme « The pandemic and its implications in housing policies ». To open the debate by the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Filipa Roseta has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: One in four people in Portugal lives with moisture, infiltrations and dusting of materials inside the house and one in five people has no money to heat up the house in winter. Before the pandemic, the lack of dignity of housing was already one of the worst indicators of poverty in Portugal in the objectives of sustainable development. The problem of housing in Portugal is a problem of the middle class, far beyond the most vulnerable: it affects about a quarter of our population, well beyond the 25 000 families identified by the IHRU (Instituto da Habitação e da Rehabilição Urbana) in 2018, as you have already recognized. The pandemic exposed the most precarious in the homes, and exposed the lack of an integrated housing policy worthy of aging. The stoppage of the economy pushed more families to the difficulty of arriving at the end of the month without knowing where the money will come from to pay the income or the provision of credit to housing. The PSD was in defense of the moratoriums on credit and in support of housing lease. Applications for rental support were 2900, much less than the 317 000 mortgage moratoriums pending — repeat, 317 000 mortgage moratoriums pending. Before the pandemic, socialist housing policy was non-existent. There was no capacity to take advantage of empty State properties. The successive budgets indicated 250 million for the National Building Rehabilitation Fund, but neither the Prime Minister nor the Minister nor the IHRU President have been able to say, in this Parliament, how much money it has actually moved to the National Building Rehabilitation Fund and what the Fund has been doing since 2016. They couldn't answer! It is because of this failure surrounded by empty propaganda that we do not believe when the Minister tells us that it is next year that a national plan will appear in this House. We're just gonna believe the day we saw him come in here. Today, the European Union wants to hold families and jobs and will send billions of dollars to the bottom. We do not have the troika of austerity, with which Prime Minister José Socrates signed the Memorandum before going to Paris. In the Recovery and Resilience Plan, the government allocated 1600 million for housing—I repeat, 1600 million for housing—, 250 million for disadvantaged communities, 620 million for energy efficiency of buildings and still money for ageing. The total will be close to 3,000 million. Before the pandemic, we had a minister with no plan and no money. Now, we have a planless minister with billions. The urgency of this debate is that the solution can be worse than the problem. They don't spend 3000 million without a national programme. In times of hunger, without a national programme or even spending the 250 million already committed to the housing park in the State Budget for 2021. We are a country with over 100 years of housing policies. In the field we have numerous examples and numerous proofs that it is possible to do good, but we also know that today there are social districts made yesterday, which are the biggest social problem we have. Does the Minister want to build low-cost social housing without private property and assign houses by draw, leaving out many and celebrating the fate of few? But what is the social justice of winning a home for drawing? There is no lack of social housing in Portugal. There is not even lack of housing. In Portugal there are 1, 5 houses for each family nucleus. It is 6 million to 4 million: 1, 5 houses for each family nucleus. Instead of dozens of programs that run or a blanket of cuts from municipal strategies, we need a national design to build the cities we want. The cities we want have an integrated housing policy, with the diverse, multigenerational and interclassist population, including small centres of support for aging to age with dignity, with our own and our community. The cities we want to believe in the private initiative, beyond the state, and in the social sector, in a housing market free of bureaucracy to coexist with a conditioned market, built on the properties of the State. The cities we want do not segregate, leave no one behind and guarantee life opportunities for all those who want to grab them. [[PSD applause.]] Above all, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, the cities we want give shape to the idea of a man who died 40 years ago at the service of this country as Prime Minister. Francisco Sá Carneiro, when he died, was 46 years old, less one than I have today. He was a young man, so. But it is in his words that I find the cities we want: cities of freedom, social justice and solidarity. These are the cities Portugal needs today. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u3	Mrs Filipa Roseta, the Bureau records the registration of Mr Hugo Costa of the PS Parliamentary Group to request clarifications. You have the floor to do this, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u4	Mr President, Secretary of State for Housing, Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, Mrs and Mrs. Members, Mrs Filipa Roseta, we congratulate the PSD on choosing the theme of housing, a crucial theme in public policies, which since the government started in 2015, has become central. This debate enables populism to be unveiled. Housing is a constitutional right that is at the base of others, such as health, education and employment. We well know that public housing policies are over 100 years old, but does the honourable Member recognise that only with the New Housing Policy Generation did they gain strategic axis? Mrs Deputy said that we do not have a housing problem in Portugal. Don't we really have a housing problem in Portugal, Mrs Deputy? The honourable Member also acknowledges that, in addition to responding to urgent questions, questions of indignity, as is done by 1. the law, it is necessary to respond to people of average income, to whom the market so defended by the party of V.E.a does not respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u5	The government is five years old!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u6	But there is an issue which the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group does not understand, unless it is purely populism. The honourable Member has been defending the impossibility of executing money until the national housing plan as provided for in Article 17 has been approved. that of the Housing Bases Act. In other words, should the Social Democratic Party and the honourable Member argue that all public investment that has been made in housing not have been made? [[Protests by PSD Member Filipa Roseta.]] Mrs. Deputy defends that the people who had access to the house give the key? Do you defend that citizens who have access to housing deliver the key, because the PSD defends that these people do not have housing? That's what the honourable Member here brought. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We assume the importance of this document, which the Government has already said was to present in 2021. It is certainly the fact that the last PSD/CDS government only presented a housing strategy in 2015 that justifies that for four years there has been no public investment. That's all that justifies it, because, as there was no plan and only presented it in mid-2015, they did nothing about housing. I have one last question, Mrs Deputies: does it not seem strange that the party that voted against the Housing Bases Law should be recalled so that there is no public investment in housing? [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u7	Have you come to apologize for the Democratic Social Party having voted against the first Housing Bases Act? That's the question I'm asking you. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u8	In reply, Mrs Filipa Roseta has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u9	Mr President, I shall try to be clear: I do not think that you spend 3000 million without a national plan, regardless of the law. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u10	May you make a law that you don't want to comply with, it's with you. Now for us, in everything, including in the Portuguese Air Transport (TAP ), we do not spend 3000 million in full, which will be delivered to us by the European Union, without a national programme.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u11	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u12	It's not done! It's not done! It's not done! It's not done! It's not done! There's no justice in this! They do not continue to say that they have a housing policy when they produced 144 fires in five years.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u13	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u14	This is ridiculous! Please!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u15	That's ridiculous!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u16	Housing policy is for the whole country. It's for the whole country! As I said, and very well, it is a problem of the middle class, which goes beyond the vulnerable. There's got to be politics, it's not giving up keys for draw! Do you understand that? Oh, my God! I don't want to take anything from anyone, but we have to look at everybody.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u17	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u18	I don't think this can be clearer! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u19	For an intervention on behalf of the Government, Mr. Secretary of State for Housing, Marina Gonçalves.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u20	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I thank you for the opportunity to hold this important debate on housing and to debate the reality, those that are the problems and solutions to a social right as structural as that of housing. I am still grateful for this apparent consensus on the importance of promoting public housing policies, but I also want to remember the past—and I speak not only of the previous Legislation, but of 2015, when effectively the strategy was made by the roof and presented, as has already been said, at the end of the term of office. Recalling a more recent past, what this government has done since 2016 was to define a New Habitat Policy Generation, where it has drawn up the problems, defined the instruments, defined the goals, defined those that would be the major policy structuring diplomas, taking a second step, which was to present these diplomas, which were published, scrutinized and debated in this Parliament. Every year Mrs Deputy herself votes in this Parliament for the Government's housing plan for the legislature. In fact, a short time ago he voted in this Parliament for the Government's housing strategy. We are the first to stress the importance of a national housing programme that is presented and voted upon in this Parliament and we are committed to presenting this document in 2021. But we have no doubt, Madam Member, that this document will incorporate the housing policy that has been defended and continued since 2016. Indeed, we have a housing policy for all Portuguese — all! —, we have programme 1. the law, which is being implemented, we have a programme to end housing shortages, which, as a result of the pandemic, will be strengthened, in particular with an investment through the Recovery and Resilience Plan, and which aims to respond to families with lower incomes. Mrs Deputy, at the moment, there are nine collaboration agreements signed with the municipalities. It is 11,000 families to whom Mrs Deputy is asking them to wait at home while presenting a programme here. That's what the honourable Member is asking for! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by PSD Member Filipa Roseta.]] We also have a second route of intervention, which began with the National Building Rehabilitation Fund for more complex works, which is moving forward and which, between two of the most structural projects, will allow 400 houses to exist. You may say that there are zero houses in the market right now, but I want to believe that everyone knows how it is rehabilitated and how it starts a process of zero, after years of de-investment, years in which, as a result of the responsibility of the Socialist Party, but also of the CDS and the PSD, the state heritage has been returned and stopped.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u21	The government's policy is really zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u22	What we are now doing is taking on that responsibility, doing the projects, making all the initial steps, which, as Mrs Deputy will certainly know, are necessary to safeguard the answer to the affordable lease, in addition to a second diploma that Mrs Deputy will have the opportunity to discuss here, a decree-law approved in October, which allows IHRU, together with the National Building Rehabilitation Fund, to rehabilitate the returned buildings of the State to give housing at affordable prices, throughout the country, to all Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u23	When? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u24	I would therefore say that I have tried to give a note of what is being done and that it will be incorporated into the programme. And don't count on the government to suspend housing policies,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u25	What policies? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u26	... waiting for a programme that is no longer than the impact of current policies since 2016. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u27	What policies? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u28	Four Mrs have signed up. Members to request clarification from the Secretary of State, who will respond to all together. You have the floor to ask for clarifications, Mr Bruno Dias, from the CFP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u29	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, I would like to ask Mr. Secretary of State of the House a question that has to do with two aspects which have to be treated in a simultaneous manner, I would say, at this stage of the country's life. On the one hand, it is necessary to give a structured, planned response, with a substantive intervention that corresponds to a policy of progressive, fair housing, development and response to the structural problems that the country has for many years in this area, whether in the development of the public housing park, or in the rehabilitation and re-qualification of the building itself that the IHRU has for its responsibility. in this sense, there are a set of concrete decisions that have to be prepared and which have been announced, but it is important to know the point of situation for their effective application on the ground. On the other hand, it is necessary to give an immediate response, given the situation that the country is facing and that the population is facing, which can and must be adopted now, not in the medium term, not a few years from now, but now, under the pain of those who are facing situations of great difficulty, are being unprotected and on the way, contrary to such a conversation that « nobody is left behind». In other words, in relation to Porta 65 Young, the emergency support to address the dramatic problems faced by the people themselves, the management and use of the housing heritage or public-built heritage with capacity for housing use, there are measures that must be taken now. The Assembly approved, on a proposal from the CFP, an exceptional income payment scheme, but in practice, according to the cross-votings of the PS and the PSD, it cut off what had to do with the immediate effectiveness of the CFP proposal. The question is this: since the government is going to regulate, will it do so in what way? The penultimate question lies with the means that IHRU has to face this matter, above all with the return of telework and with the increase of a second, third and fourth population needs. What response is being given to IHRU to have, in fact, the ability and means to respond to emerging needs? Finally, the last question has to do with the financial effort required by the municipalities. In accordance with such cooperation agreements and what is being defined, does not it seem to you, the Secretary of State, taking into account the State and central authority, in constitutional terms and in legal terms, that the municipalities are being required a substantially greater portion than that which under the Constitution and the law should be given to them for the resolution of these problems? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u30	You now have the floor to ask for clarification, Mrs Maria Manuel Rola, of the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u31	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Secretary of State, this pandemic has made it clear the importance of housing as a democratic and constitutional pillar. Those who do not have a decent housing are more vulnerable to the disease, have no conditions for confinement, for telework and much less for educational success or for accompanying their children.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u32	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u33	We realize that in the terrible ocean of the pandemic, we are not all on the same boat. With the pandemic crisis, the gross effects of real estate speculation were also more exposed. The Socialist Party did not intend, and it does not appear to oppose it, after the disaster that was the right initiative in this area. The monoculture of tourism and the sesame of real estate, tax dumping and prosperity to real estate and millionaires buying national soil to access citizenship rights reveal, more than ever, a wrong bet and, more than that, a perverse bet. Even with the crisis we are now experiencing, the value of real estate, for purchase or rent, remains almost unchanged. At the same time we know that income in Portugal is the lowest in Europe. Tourists are no longer coming and cities are empty, but that is why the market has not converted to serve those who live here. The poorest and most precarious workers, who are also those who cannot be owners, are therefore more dependent on the lease market and are also the most penalized. Among these, above all, the most penalized are women. On these issues, the Government has had no answers to the size of the problems we face and to the demanding dysfunctions of the market. In public policies and in government action, in order to respond to this problem, inertia has prevailed, either in the regulation of the Housing Bases Act and the property harassment law, either in the mobilization of the public building and void or even in the amendments to the lease law. I must also say, I confess, that I thought the PSD scheduling was an act of contrition. I imagined that Mrs. Filipa Roseta would solemnly apologize to the thousands of people who were released thanks to these unconstitutional norms implemented by the PSD government or, moreover, by the script of the reform of the state that her party presented when it was government. [[Protests by PSD Member Filipa Roseta.]] Well, none of this we had a chance to see. But the result is in sight: tens of thousands of people without conditions of access to housing and, with the pandemic crisis and the decline in incomes, this reality will only tend to worsen. It is in this sense that the intervention of government and public policies is decisive. The question now is: are the Government and the Socialist Party prepared to extend the measures in force to the year 2021? We are at the height of the pandemic crisis and we need to give answers to people who, at the moment, do not know how to respond to the housing problems that they will be facing at the beginning of January. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u34	You have the floor to ask for clarifications by Mr Carlos Silva of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u35	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, before the pandemic, housing was already one of the main problems of the Portuguese daily, with particular impact on populations living in the metropolitan areas, associating to them the problem of mobility, the peripheries and the lack of quality and preservation of buildings. In the most accessible places of the cities, the cost of housing goes far beyond the financial capacity of families to cope with the incomes and benefits of banks. The real estate market works without any regulation. The pandemic has made the difficulties of populations more demanding. There are more homeless, there are more people living in degraded neighborhoods, there are younger people leaving the houses they shared and who stopped paying, there are families in overcrowding, more subject to the spread of the virus. Unemployment and the breakdown of income have placed many families in great difficulties and emergency support measures have proved to be truly insufficient. The income support program is a kind of empty set. The program sank, entangled in bureaucracy, and became future debt to families. It is in this sense that the need for State intervention, with the creation of a true public policy, emerges by developing programmes that create conditions for the removal of urban pressure in areas that tend to push out populations. Unfortunately, this government has opted for another way, which was propaganda, launching programmes, some without timetable and without budget allocation. At the same time, 15 days ago, within the framework of the State budget, he announced to the country that Parliament will approve the national housing programme for the year. What are we in, Secretary of State? They ruled six years ago, in 2017 they created a state secretary in a pompous way, announced a new generation of housing policies, where they put everything and a couple more boots. The result is programs with budget executions close to the ridiculous: about dozens of houses. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u36	But only now, at the end of six years, did they realize that they did not have a strategic vision for the country in terms of housing and that another plan is needed. Mr. Secretary of State, we are at a time when the Portuguese demand more action and less propaganda in response to their problems. Above all, I hope you will not forget the wise and fair constitutional poem that told us that there is only real freedom when there is peace, bread, housing, health and education. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u37	To ask for clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Mariana Silva of the Greens.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u38	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members, the PSD brings us a matter of importance and of present importance. Housing is a basic need for human survival and an individual and collective development factor. The Constitution of the Portuguese Republic establishes the right to a decent housing and according to Article 65. the, « Everyone has the right, for themselves and for their families, to an adequate housing, in conditions of hygiene and comfort(...) », and it is up to the State to take the necessary measures to make this right more enforceable and accessible to all. The country faces, today, a pandemic that has come to nude the various difficulties experienced in different areas. The issue of housing is an old problem that has worsened with the changes promoted by the majority, of bad memory, PSD/CDS, with the generalization of evictions, particularly of the elderly, favoring the interests linked to tourism and with reflections on gentrification. The issue of housing was, and is, a problem with de-investment in social housing and with the consequent degradation of existing housing. The Portuguese society currently faces a reality characterized by precariousness, low wages, instability and insecurity, in which a large majority of the population faces difficulties either in renting or in the acquisition of their own housing. This situation is more serious and accentuated in the young and disadvantaged layers of the population, with employment and housing determining for their emancipation and independence. Decades of policy against the emancipation of young people lead them to leave their parents' homes more and later, and even lead some to have to go back there, or they only endure with their help. Measures to support young people's rent exclude thousands of candidates. In the middle of the 21st century, the lack of living conditions reaches thousands of Portuguese, having degraded dwellings with reduced dimensions, overcrowded, without water channelled and without basic sanitation, without conditions for safety, hygiene and prophylactic isolation measures to be implemented in the case of virus infection, ensuring that VOC is not spread in an uncontrolled manner by family members. The wager in social housing is today virtually residual, the value of income and benefits is exorbitant and high indebtedness is presented as the only solution in the face of increasing deresponsibility of the State to ensure the right to housing. For all this, the struggle for the right to housing cannot be separated from the struggle for the defence of democratic conquests and rights. On the part of successive governments there has been non-compliance, disrespect and deep attacks on the right to housing, creating conditions of benefit, favour and privilege for large economic groups, being quite clear and evident their choice to stand next to the bank, to the detriment of people. Madam Secretary of State, what measures have you defined and what are they in effect to ensure a housing market that guarantees the poorest, the younger, everyone's right to housing? With regard to young people, can you ensure that everyone who meets the eligibility criteria for access to the support provided for in Gate 65 Young will have access to it?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u39	To respond to this set of four requests for clarification, you have the floor of the Secretary of State for Housing, Marina Gonçalves.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u40	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I appreciate the questions you have asked me. Obviously assuming the responsibility of years of de-investment in housing and assuming the difficulty of, in the short term, finding structural but immediate answers to the problem of housing, there is indeed a double aspect of work that we have to guarantee. On the one hand, a structured and long-term response which necessarily goes through the strengthening of the public response, by strengthening the public housing park. Only with a reply in which the State effectively has a central role will we be able to guarantee the right to housing for all. On the other hand, there is an immediate response which cannot only be guided by rehabilitation, because rehabilitation obviously has central steps and unfortunately does not place one house on the market overnight. Therefore, there is a set of instruments that have to be created to safeguard, in the short term, especially due to the pandemic, structured responses to the population. Support for the payment of income was important. It is true that you did not have very strong membership, but, not wanting to talk about the Portuguese option, there were not many candidates for the programme. The programme had requirements, it was created in one week, were seen the inefficiencies of it and in this Parliament in the Supplementary Budget, proposals were approved to make the model more simplified. currently, there are no problems of delay in the processing of supports. IHRU has a team that is only working on support and will continue to work until 2021, as the support has been extended on a proposal from the CFP in Parliament until 2021. We are concluding the decree to implement this support at the very beginning of the year, and we are sure that one of the issues we are considering, which is indeed the result of what has been approved in the PEES ( Economic and Social Stabilization Programme ) is the fact that part of this support, taking into account the income of families and the effects of the crisis, can be converted into subsidies, i.e. not loans but IHRU subsidies. There is a set of short-term responses that need to be defined — it is more than obvious — but the fact is that the answer that is more structured and more efficient will undoubtedly be the long-term response given with the public housing park. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u41	Mr Hugo Carvalho, from the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u42	Mr President, Mrs State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members: The PSD appears in this debate with crocodile tears. They were government between 2011 and 2015 and did nothing strictly about housing! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u43	They were opposed in the following four years, when, in this Chamber, it was discussed, approved and legislated the Housing Bases Law. The PSD has failed this debate and has been against it! Therefore, the PSD is not now enough to mark an urgent debate to say that it is concerned about a subject with which it has never been, but the PSD has never cared. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, if the PSD wants to be responsible and aware of this debate, it should clearly say whether or not it is in favour of public investment in the housing park, because, if it is, it should have approved the proposals of the State budget in the housing field, because that would also strengthen investment in housing. If the PSD wants to be responsible and serious in the debate of housing, it should also be able to say whether it wants to be speedy in the implementation of public policies, because, if so, it cannot come to political debate with insignificant subterfuges and bureaucracies to try to prevent the implementation of housing policies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u44	They don't exist!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u45	from the Socialist Party, we know what we're defending here. We have launched programme support programmes for programme 1. the law, in close collaboration with the Portuguese municipalities, with a robust financial program. That is what we are doing, but we are also working on affordable rental, because we know how important it is that we can safeguard what you do not safeguard, which is the speculative lease market. We must ensure that families and middle class can have conditions of income to access housing. That's what we're doing, and that's what we're going to do! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by PSD Member Filipa Roseta.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u46	You have the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, Mrs Maria Manuel Rola.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u47	Mr President, Secretary of State : we are currently living in a housing crisis and living in a pandemic crisis.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u48	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u49	We are speaking at this very moment, but in 2021 the response to the crisis will not be ready — neither the housing crisis nor the pandemic crisis. That is precisely the question at this time, when a few days from now, for example, the moratorium on the suspension of contracts. I would like the Secretary of State to answer if the Socialist Party is available not to add a crisis to the crisis we are experiencing right now and that it will extend, if we do nothing, from 31 December. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u50	Now it is the turn of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group to intervene. Mr. João Gonçalves Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u51	Mr President, Secretary of State for Housing, Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, Mrs and Mrs. Members: First of all, I would like to congratulate the PSD on having taken the initiative of this debate. At the housing level, the pandemic brought us several challenges. Many families are unable to meet their commitments with the payment of the bank and many cannot pay their rents to their landlords either. The pandemic also brought the isolation and accelerated the telework. In addition to what may be the diagnosis of the situation, it is important here, as it is evident, to make a balance of government action. On affordable lease, the Government has decided to invest anything like EUR 1200 million in social housing in the Recovery and Resilience Plan over the next six years. It will only be possible to implement this policy and this challenge if there is cooperation between central administration and local administration. Therefore, in this debate, it is important for the Government to clarify how many municipal chambers have already presented their local housing strategy to IHRU, so that we can know whether this policy, this money and these resources will actually be able to respond to this need. We have a problem in the rental market in Portugal. In residential terms, the lease represents only 2 % of the market. One of the classes most affected by the absence of this lease market is precisely the middle class, the elderly and the younger ones. As regards requests for aid for the payment of income, the CDS is concerned that the IHRU only approved 24 % of the applications. He received something like 3000 requests for income payment aid from families who are totally desperate, who have broken income, and, of these 3000 requests, only about 700 were approved. There's something here that's not going well, there's something here that's definitely wrong. We have a program to help pay the rent, we have families who are losing their income, who ask for support, but then only 24 % of these same requests are approved. We know what the reason is, we know here, and we know out there, it's bureaucracy. The country binds the "complicometer" and the Socialist Party should create a "Simplex" as it has to help families and those who ask for such support. We speak of poor families, often having difficulty interpreting bureaucratic requirements that prevent them from having the right support. We live times when we need to help and support, we do not live times to complicate! The inability to respond, however, is evident and this is perceived. IHRU needs more resources, so come these same resources. Then we have programs like 1. the law, with a history of execution in the order of 8 %, on which, even in the State budget, we heard say: « This is what it is! Now we're gonna do it! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” The question that we ask is the following: will this be the one we will have the 1. the right to function and have an execution? We don't know! Then we have the banking moratoriums, a problem that exists and that we all watch. We read the numbers and we realized that families could not afford more than 500 million euros of benefits. This is delaying a problem we have on the table. The question we are asking is: what is the government preparing for when these moratoriums are completed? The problem of these families exists and what is required, in this debate, is that the Government presents the right solutions. Then we have socialist dreams. In recent revelations, Mr. Prime Minister, Dr. António Costa, said that he had as his objective a proposal to celebrate the 50th anniversary of 25 April, which consists of, in 2024, we have eradicated situations of outrage in Portuguese society. Question: This very Prime Minister was not the president of a chamber and does he not know the conditions in which people live in social districts and in municipal districts? There are overcrowded houses, full of moisture and infiltrations, buildings with damaged elevators, families completely abandoned.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u52	Mr President, I ask you to conclude, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u53	I will finish now, Mr President. Then come to say that he wants to eradicate situations of outrage! It's absolutely remarkable!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u54	You really have to conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u55	I will now finish, Mr President. It should be remembered that António Costa, Prime Minister, who today says he wants to eradicate, in three years, situations of outrage, is the same António Costa, President of the House, who has put in the drawer any public housing policy. From this government, what do we have? Propaganda, propaganda and propaganda!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u56	For an intervention, you have the floor for the PAN, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u57	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government here present: Today we are debating a matter that has implications not only for this health crisis, especially in housing, but also for a structural problem whose resolution, long before this crisis, was pushed and postponed by successive governments. These are structural problems that this crisis has only aggravated and evidenced. One of these structural problems that we cannot ignore is the lack of housing at affordable cost for young people. In 2017, at a time of economic expansion, more than 63% of our young people between the ages of 18 and 34 lived in the home of their parents, housing itself was already a hard dream to achieve. Today, this scenario will be expected to be more serious, since we know that the health crisis has brought about a galloping increase in young unemployment. The causes of this scenario are diverse. From the outset, the fact that we have a labour market which, either by its structure or by labour law, encourages a model of low wages based on the generalization of professional stages, often unpaid, and of unstability ties. But of course we cannot ignore the inadequacy of public policies for the promotion of young housing, whose government focus is on the allocation of competences to the municipal domain and to the Porta 65 programme, which is clearly insufficient in its duration and which ignores the absolute deregulation of the market. It also ignores the proper link with other public policies, particularly in the field of labour and training, because combating the lack of access to housing is to combat the precariousness and poverty that afflicts people in our country. Returning to the question of market deregulation, it has reasons that cannot be set aside either and that must be combated, as is the case with the promotion of an absolutely unsustainable tourism, which has marked the last years in our country, and promoter of gentrification, running with the people of their cities, or the case of the programmes of the golden visas, also created by the PSD and the CDS, which have brought nothing to the productive economy of the country and which have artificialized the price of the real estate in cities such as Lisbon and Porto and in regions such as the Algarve, among others. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in today's debate, we cannot actually say that we have the most qualified generations ever and that we recognize their role to then say that we recognize this merit with more years of stay in the home of the parents, waiting for the time of emancipation. That is not what our young people deserve, and less must still be what we have to offer them! Madam Secretary of State, it is important to know when the government is actually going to realize that there is no public policy to promote effective young housing without a model that guarantees labour legislation that encourages stable links and that ensures that public money is used to finance companies that promote good work practices. When will the government actually fulfil the State budget and, for example, withdraw the gold visas from cities such as Lisbon and Porto, so that people can focus on their metropolitan areas? Let us look at the risks that the structural problems of housing have brought in the context of this health crisis. We cannot help but overlook the fact that the loss of income has worsened quite significantly, increasing, on the other hand, unemployment, being impossible to have today the reality of people in a very vulnerable situation, of extreme poverty or of material deprivation, such as people in a homeless situation. There is a lack of structured answers, year after year, to guarantee your right to a house, something which we have repeatedly seen here to say that it is fundamental law and that comes from one of the foundations of our Constitution, but which fears not to leave the paper. On a proposal from the NAP, we managed to make progress in the 2020 and 2021 State budget in this area, but we still lack a commitment to prevention, preventing more people from falling into poverty or living in homeless situations. This is incomprehensible, I pay attention to the vast heritage that the State holds and that it should and could recover to ensure a greater supply of housing both for young people and for the most vulnerable, whether for migrants, with the program of affordable incomes. We all have a way to go and it is now time for a strong commitment from the Government, but also from this House of the Republic, not to reject initiatives aimed at ensuring what is the most basic justice: the right to housing for all and for all.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u58	Mr Bruno Dias, from the CFP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u59	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: I do not know if there are words, but there is certainly no time to say everything needed on the PSD, that, besides having systematically voted against the proposals of the CFP on housing, is exactly the party of the « law of evictions », of the destruction of the IHRU,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u60	It's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u61	... the abandonment of the population in terms of housing and which now speaks as if he were the champion of housing policies. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u62	It even looks like left-wing staff, who came here to complain! What we cannot but observe is that it is serious that what is happening today does not deserve from the central power the answer that must have, when there are thousands and thousands of people who need home because they do not have a decent housing. And that problem comes from behind. Before there was a pandemic crisis, there were already serious housing problems in the country. The pandemic crisis is added, and in addition to thousands of people who do not have a decent home and who need a home in conditions, humans, to live, there are thousands of people who have a home and can be left without it. There are thousands of housing problems that are happening now.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u63	But the government is yours!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u64	When we put the question of keeping the tenant protection regime in 2021, which is in force until 31 December, and proposed that this regime continue to 2021, this proposal was cast with votes against the PS, the PSD and the CDS. I repeat, with votes against PS, PSD and CDS! [[PSD protests.]] We have proposed that this regime be continued so as not to leave people unprotected from 1 January, and you wanted it to end at the end of this year. With regard to the means and response capacity of the IHRU, the Government should not leave this question unanswered. It is important to take immediate action to ensure that at the level of IHRU there is capacity to meet needs. Also in relation to the strengthening of words from the Porta 65 Jovem, PS and PSD program, in conjunction, the proposal presented by the CFP has been dropped. With regard to the financial effort required by the municipalities, the Secretary of State, of the six cooperation agreements concluded, which arise in the information given by the Government, with a total investment of EUR 486 million, EUR 307 million remains for the invoice of the municipalities.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u65	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u66	I will finish, Mr. President. Mr Secretary of State, this is no way to solve the problems, taking into account the responsibility of the central authority, in accordance with the Constitution. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u67	Mr Carlos Pereira, from the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u68	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Between the intervention of crocodile tears by Mrs Filipa Roseta and the « 325 commission » that Mr Carlos Silva took from the bay, of several that he has there and that he has done in this House,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u69	It's a compliment!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u70	...I'd like to make some comments, which I think are very important. First of all, leaving aside the huge contradiction, which seems very obvious to me, I would say, that the plunge into contradiction by Mrs Filipa Roseta, the essential part of this debate, was to ask the Government to move forward with the national housing programme, whose requirement, curiously, can only be made because there is a basic law made by this government and by this party, the law that the honourable Member and her Government voted against. [[Protests by PSD Member Filipa Roseta.]] I think the honourable Member has to look for more inspiration. I have to say that I'm even surprised, because it's easy to do. It is almost unusual, strange, that he didn't do it, that he didn't seek any more inspiration! That deserves to be emphasized. Madam Member, as regards your speeches on the national housing programme and on what you say the PS has done nothing, I would say that there is a sort of grotesque wish that what is nothing like this is the same. Explain—the English say this well: it is a sort of wishful thinking, Mrs Deputies would like it to be so. But I and the PS Parliamentary Group are not intrusive in soul pains. The only thing we are going to say — and that the Secretary of State has already mentioned and I would like to stress — is that the Socialist Party does not stop all the support and all the means it has given to all the policies it has implemented in the context of housing.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u71	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u72	You're wrong, Mrs. Member. We will not stop with the support we have given. I shall finish, Mr. President,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u73	Quickly, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u74	... leaving a note to the Left Block : I and the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group think there is a line, or several lines, or even a wall that separates the Left Block from the PSD. My Christian soul is still waiting, with patience,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u75	Mr President, your time has already been greatly exceeded. Please finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u76	...that the Left Block once again supports public housing support policies, for which it has contributed. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u77	You have the floor for an intervention, Mrs. Secretary of State for Housing, Marina Gonçalves.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u78	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would very briefly like to point out that, without prejudice to the continuity of the public housing policies that are on the table and which have been approved for 2021 — and that we will certainly continue — we will also present the national housing programme, which will not suspend investment in housing. There is, of course, the commitment and willingness to see what instruments are needed, in the short term, to respond to the pandemic in the face of the urgency and immediate response to the population, to safeguard that everyone is entitled to housing — this is our concern and we are available to see what are the most effective response mechanisms for the population — but, without prejudice to that, I would even point out that there will be no suspension of what is the public housing policy. On the other hand, we will bring to this Parliament the instruments we want to review and some of the instruments that are currently being implemented, particularly the Porta 65 programme — and I am trying to answer the question that has been raised — in order to reform the programme and to try to respond more effectively to the problems of young people.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u79	Mrs Maria Manuel Rola has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u80	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At the end of this debate, I would like to resume the 2013 state reform script, where PSD and CDS mirrored their mantra. I quote: « (...) they acquire special meaning the reform of the Labour Code and the reform of the Rent Law, because of the impact they have on the mobility of labour and housing markets. Thus, the right-wing government of the carpet that took thousands of people away! It was the Constitutional Court itself that called into question some of the assumptions of these insensitive and even criminal laws. Mr Carlos Pereira, in fact, the way must be different. And it has to be different on housing issues, both on work issues. The Left Block has not failed to do so, we have some reluctance to do with what the Socialist Party has proposed in the field of mobility both in the Rent Act and in the Labour Law. That path, yes, has to be changed. The challenge is to respond to those who live here and to those who work here. Question : Is the Socialist Party available to finally answer and oppose this mobility probe that the right has brought to our country? To this, yes, it is important to answer. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u81	To conclude the debate, Mr Márcia Passos, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u82	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Portugal has more than 100 years of public housing policies, but it cannot continue to think, Mrs. Secretary of State, as in 1918 and to build without criteria only to respond to models that often do not go beyond paper. I'll quote a few. Programs such as Habitat, Side Door or Habitat Mobility are just a few examples that we don't know about, we don't know what practical effects it has had on the lives of Portuguese people. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u83	And yes, Mr. Hugo Costa, we argue that anyone who doesn't need the house must deliver the key. That's right, sir! Because it is not possible to continue to support families and more families who no longer need the support of the State. This is one of the problems of the government. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u84	This is one of the problems because, at the moment, we do not have houses to respond to the middle class, which will need them already in January. The problem is the lack of supervision, the problem is not being able to accompany those who meet, those who fail to meet and why it is not fulfilling and assisting those who need it at the time they need it. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u85	It is urgent to change the paradigm of public housing in Portugal. It cannot continue to be a dwelling only and only for the most disadvantaged. It has to be an inclusive home, which helps families when they need, who supports, who helps, who gives the hand, but one day lets them walk alone, that one day allows them to do so. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u86	And then, yes, deliver the key, deliver the house, because the house is needed for other families, who are so much needed. [[PSD applause.]] And yes, Mr. Member of the CFP Bruno Dias, we have not been able to understand what assumptions are that Mr. Members are going to invoke that it is the gentlemen who must continue to support and support what the government does not do. [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests by PCP MP Bruno Dias.]] There are those who have not paid since March 2020, Mr. We were able to extend until 31 December 2020 the effects of termination of the contract,... [[Continuation of protests by PCP Member Bruno Dia.]] ...but it is not possible to continue with this state of affairs, because we dose the sides of a contract's legal relationship.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u87	Tell the truth!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u88	There are families who need income to support their children and other family members.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u89	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u90	This has to be said.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u91	Tell the truth!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u92	The gentlemen. Members have to start from another assumption, because you are not government or have the function of the state. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u93	Mr. Secretary of State,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u94	Mrs. Deputy, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u95	I shall conclude, Mr President. Mr. Secretary of State, if the Government does not know how to do, as it seems to have taken up here, look at the programmes of the PSD, which are concrete,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u96	Zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u97	...are sustainable and social inclusion. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u98	We have thus reached the end of the first item on the agenda. We move on to the second point, with the joint discussion, in general, of the Bill No 63 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Exceptional suspension of deadlines associated with the survival and expiry of collective labour convention and the Bills Nos 10 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Replies the most favourable treatment principle, eliminates the expiry of collective bargaining and regulates the succession of collective labour agreements ( sixteenth amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February ), 74 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Promotes collective bargaining, making the sixth amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February, and 130 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Consecrates the replacement of the principle of the most favourable treatment for the worker and the elimination of the expiry of the collective contract ( tenth amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February ). To open the debate, Mr. Under-Secretary of State, Labour and Vocational Training, Miguel Cabrita has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u99	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The proposal presented here today is to suspend, in a transitional way, the count of deadlines for expiry and the survival of collective regulation instruments of work. The objective is clear and assumed. Collective bargaining has recovered, in recent years, dynamism, but, during the largest pandemic of the last 100 years, it is important to take preventive action to prevent gaps in the coverage of collective bargaining. Thus, for an exceptional period, we propose an exceptional response: the transitional suspension, for 24 months, of the deadlines associated with expiry. And we propose that they be subject to this suspension not only new complaints that may arise, but also the counting of deadlines in cases already under way. It is therefore a measure with immediate impact and preventive impact. Immediately, because it suspends the deadlines for expiry, which have an impact on tens of thousands of workers. But, above all, preventive, because it dissuades new complaints, protecting millions of workers, to enable us to cross, with stability, with certainty, in collective bargaining, the period of crisis and recovery that we will be going through. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Government has been launching strong and extraordinary support to respond to the pandemic, tools to support businesses, to maintain employment, social protection and people's incomes. The proposal we are defending today is the part of this strategy on defending collective bargaining in a period of recognized difficulty. The unique contours of the pandemic crisis and the exceptional factors that are inherent to it justify the prevention of negative externalities on fundamental aspects of our model of labour relations and the labour market, such as social dialogue and collective bargaining. This is because the coverage and dynamics of collective bargaining are influenced by different variables: by economic cycles, of course, being the crises moments of particular risk, but also by the framework and legal regulation or the use of instruments such as extension portals. As we all remember, in the first half of the last decade there was a sharp loss of dynamism in collective bargaining. It was not only the result of the difficult economic situation but also of a deliberate strategy of the government of the time, the PSD Government / CDS, to devalue collective bargaining and to promote instability and precariousness in the labour market. [[P.S.'s applause.]] These times have stayed behind. In recent years, there has been a gradual and sustained recovery, not only of the number of conventions published, but also, and in particular, of its annual coverage, which has walked close to 1 million workers per year, four times over the black years of 2013 and 2014. This recovery occurred in a framework of confidence and recovery of the economy, but also of express appreciation of the quality of employment, social dialogue and collective bargaining. The first quarter of 2020 confirmed widely and reinforced this trajectory. However, the pandemic suddenly interrupted this path of economic growth and created, in a totally unexpected way, a crisis, of exceptional magnitude and contours, of course, by uncertainty about the evolution of the pandemic itself. Collective bargaining naturally felt in the second and third quarters. That is why, bearing in mind that in times of crisis the withdrawal of confidence and expectations results in a lower propensity for negotiation and its renewal, we want to prevent and prevent a possible increase in the situations of denunciations of conventions and the emergence of gaps in coverage, without thus jeopardizing future dynamism in the renewal of conventions. So, and for an exceptional situation, exceptional answers. And, contrary to what happened in the previous crisis, in which nothing has been done to defend the quality of employment or the collective dimension of work relations, rather,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u100	Liar!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u101	... we argue that the country's response to today's crisis should be guided by different principles, the principles of quality of employment and work and by reaffirming the importance of the collective dimension of labour relations. This is our strategy, this is our commitment, this is the spirit and the letter of this bill. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u102	To present the PCP bill, Mrs Diana Ferreira of the PCP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u103	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : It was the struggle of workers, their action on demand organised from the workplaces which gave rise to collective bargaining, the fundamental right of workers, as set out in Article 56. that of our Constitution of the Republic. This is why a constitutional right of the workers we speak of, when we talk about collective bargaining. And this is the same right that is at issue with the expiry of collective bargaining. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Collective recruitment is a means by which unilateral imposition of the employer's will in labour relations is prevented. It is an indispensable tool for a better distribution of wealth. Fixed wages, subsistence allowance, supplementary and night work payment, shift allowance, breaks, supplementary rest, plus holiday days. It contains regulation and regulation of working hours and its organization, night work, professional categories, functional content, among other aspects of work relations. Collective recruitment guarantees rights above that provided for in the Labour Code, which are frankly more favourable to workers. For this reason, it has been the target of a systematic attack by employers' associations and successive governments, committed to individualization and precarious labour relations. It should be remembered that it was by a PSD/CDS government that in 2003 the Labour Code was published which resulted in the admission of the expiry of collective conventions as well as in the elimination of the most favourable treatment principle. Of course, the employer, who has never complied with the loss of unilateral power to dictate the rules in working relations, has embarked on a significant fall in the number of contracts agreed and, above all, a sharp decrease in the number of workers covered by collective bargaining, exacerbating their deprotection. Since then, all revisions to the Labour Code, made by PS governments, PSD and CDS, have worsened this diploma, have hampered the effective exercise of the right to collective bargaining while opening doors to the elimination of other rights. We are also talking about a generalized blockage of collective bargaining, including refusal of negotiation by employers' associations and blackmail on trade unions in negotiations, refusing to increase wages if trade unions do not accept the reduction of rights. If, in 2003, before the amendment to the Labour Code, the renewal of the collective contract covered 1 million and 500 thousand workers, between 2012 and 2014 the workers concerned did not reach 300 000. Between 2016 and 2019 some one third of the workers declared in staff tables will be covered, numbers far from those that existed in 2003. contrary to what was stated, these standards did not dynamize collective bargaining. There are fewer contracts, fewer workers involved. The numbers that existed in 2003 have never been reached again. Today, they are excluded from collective bargaining and from the rights which it enshrines hundreds of thousands of workers in our country. Today, the patronage has the freedom to expire a collective convention, if it so understands. It is sufficient not to negotiate, in fact, and to use various and different resources, such as the submission of proposals below the general law, the pressure to publish expiry notices and the amendment of statutes of employers' associations not to negotiate collective bargaining. All this to annihilate the principle of the legal and constitutional right to negotiate collective bargaining. It is the use of expiry as a blackmail tool on trade unions and workers, to withdraw rights. In October this year, food industry workers demanded the right to negotiate collective bargaining and better wages. Most collective contracts in the sector have not been revised for more than 10 years and therefore the overwhelming majority of workers receive only the national minimum wage. In November this year, in the chemical sector, employers' associations were required to resume negotiations for the revision of the collective labour contract. These are examples that demonstrate the urgency of the elimination of the expiry of collective bargaining. Expiration is required. To ensure that one contract is replaced by another freely negotiated. It is also urgent to restate the principle of the most favourable treatment for the worker. It is about defending workers' rights and improving their working conditions that we are talking about. These are the proposals presented by the CFP here. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u104	To present the draft law of BE, you have the floor of Mrs Isabel Pires.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u105	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Collective recruitment is one of the most important democratic rights in our country, but also one of the most frequently attacked in recent decades. Collective recruitment was an instrument that allowed progress in our country and rights for those who work. It is as important as it helps to balance an unequal relationship: the relationship between employer and worker. The latter is in a disadvantaged position, but the mechanisms of unionization and collective bargaining have historically been essential for progress in our country. However, after several changes to the Labour Code in recent years, the law currently allows collective conventions to expire by unilateral decision of the employers, resulting in an empty decision. This institution of a quick and easy process for employers to determine the end of collective conventions, as well as the lack of full consecration of the principle of treatment most favourable to the worker, have profoundly unbalanced labour relations, have established a blackmail dynamics in the negotiations, have contributed to the degradation of the content of the new conventions and have limited the number of workers protected by collective bargaining. With the changes made, we had nearly 2 million workers covered by collective bargaining in 2008, to 250 000 in 2014. In 2019, the number rose to 900 000, but clearly far below the numbers before the crisis and austerity policies. Unfortunately, the understanding of structural reforms to respond to crises has been moving into the Labour Code to worsen the conditions of those who work in our country. And despite a reversal of this path in past legislation, the PS and the Government continue without granting any reversal of the measures imposed by the troika in the Labour Code. The situation is so paradigmatic that the Government now presents a new moratorium on the expiry of collective bargaining. Now, if the problem exists and is admitted by the government itself, why does this rule not definitely withdraw? We have had this debate in recent weeks, and the government continues to fail to have one viable justification for this option. Why does the Government insist that the principle of the most favourable treatment is not guaranteed in full? We are talking only about no worker being able to have conditions below what is established in the Labour Code. Without these two basic but important changes, we will continue to have the degradation of the quantity, but also and, above all, the quality of collective contracts. Rebalance of working relationships is a condition of justice for those who work, and that is exactly what we propose today. We do not propose moratoriums or attempts to 'rock the water from the hood' and pretend that there is no problem. Nor can we continue to withdraw from Parliament its competence and its role as regards labour law. at a time of crisis such as what we go through and which we will certainly still be going through for a while, it is essential that we have mechanisms to defend work with rights in the Labour Code. The problem of expiry, not being exceptional because it comes from behind, has to have definitive solutions. We have asked this question several times, in recent weeks, to the Government, to the Minister of Labour: what is the justification for giving thousands of workers not to accept the withdrawal of the unilateral end of the expiry of the Labour Code? You couldn't give a single answer! Let us hope that this answer can come through the approval of the bill that the Left Block presents here and that effectively responds to a concrete problem, which comes from behind and which urgently needs a solution. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u106	To present the ENP bill, Mr. José Luís Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u107	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The changes that labour law has been familiar with over the last decades have brought very negative elements for workers, both in the private sector and in the Public Administration, and have accentuated imbalance in labour relations, with serious damage to those who work. As is perfectly visible, the 2003 Labour Code has weakened fundamental aspects of the right of collective bargaining, especially with regard to the introduction of the expiry of collective labour agreements, but also with the ability of these conventions to lay down less favourable rules than those enshrined in the law. It is therefore a situation which calls into question the principle of more favourable treatment for workers and which runs counter to the very nature of collective labour agreements, since they also aim to establish working conditions more favourable to workers than those resulting from the application of labour laws. In fact, the expiry of the collective agreement — whether collective labour contracts or collective agreements and company agreements negotiated between employers and workers' representatives — represented a strong limitation on the fundamental right of collective bargaining and an unacceptable restriction on the parties' negotiating freedom. In practice, this formula has placed in the employer's hands an instrument of pressure, intentionally intended to impose his will, to the detriment of the rights and interests of those who work. This means that employers have been allowed the possibility that, in the event of a refusal to negotiate, collective employment contracts may expire. The alternative became the expiry or loss of rights for workers. But, as was expected, these changes, as a whole, disbalanced labour relations, stimulated lay-offs, put people to work more and earn less and, above all, put workers in a relationship of greater fragility than employers. And as it is easily understandable, these changes or options, in addition to the dramatic situations that have provoked, from a social point of view and for those who work, have not only been able to solve any of our problems, as have been further aggravated. We speak of the 2003 amendments, with the PSD and the CDS, but also with the 2009 amendments, with the PS, and in 2012, again with the PSD and the CDS. Also in the last Legislature, with the PS minority government, this worsening has not only been maintained as with the support of the PSD and the CDS, it has been accentuated. As you can see, these options have been taken over time by successive governments and have remained in our legal order and, of course, without forgetting several other labour rules which also require changes, it is important to correct these concrete errors and injustices. This is precisely the purpose of this legislative initiative which The Greens are presenting today, proposing amendments to the Labour Code, in order to reintroduce the principle of treatment most favourable to the worker, as well as to eliminate the expiry of collective bargaining and regulate the succession of collective labour agreements. We are talking about measures of the most basic justice that aim to contribute to the exploitation of work and the substantial improvement of workers' rights and living conditions. In fact, the initiative that the Government here brings us is the express recognition of the injustice of the current rules of the expiry of collective conventions, but at the same time and quietly indicates the government's lack of courage not to definitively eliminate the rules of the expiry of collective labour conventions, exceptionally suspending them. [[Meanwhile, Vice President José Manuel Pureza took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u108	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. The next intervention was Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u109	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government: Collective recruitment is undoubtedly an unreplaceable mechanism to ensure dynamics in labour relations with a guarantee of decent rights and working conditions. The NAP argues that collective bargaining should be promoted and that it can, for example, be a way of developing and deepening labour rules on telework. This deepening could bring a beneficial clarification to employers and workers, but unfortunately we all know that did not happen. during this health crisis, the NAP has guided its action by defending the principle that no one can be left behind, but leaving no one behind is, among other things, precisely ensuring the sustainability and viability of companies, without this bringing more precariousness in labor relations or backwardness in rights, guarantees, wages and protection of workers. That is why this proposal for an exceptional suspension of deadlines for the survival and expiry of collective labour conventions, which is now brought to us by the Government, is assumed as a positive one and will therefore have our agreement in general, since it is a way of ensuring greater stability and predictability of labour relations and a way of preventing the health crisis from being an alibi for the cut-off of rights. Contrary to what one might think, this measure does not call into question the dynamism of the Portuguese economy or the viability of companies, since in 2017 the government adopted a measure similar to that which we are discussing today and the criticisms, which we see repeated today, have proved wrong. What we saw at the time was that, although it was possible to go further in the fight against precariousness, there was no direct correlation between the social protection of workers and greater economic dynamism, and although economic growth without cuts in labour rights is possible. But on this occasion, we cannot fail to mention that the deadline for suspension, set by the Government within 24 months, is a criterion for fixing the time limit which is imperceptible and seems to be unbalanced on the employer's side. in this, as in other protective measures in the context of a health crisis, the NAP argues that no too rigid and closed deadlines should be adopted, subject to the penalty of subsequently becoming excessive or insufficient. Therefore, for the NAP, the deadline should refer to the period of prevention, containment, mitigation and treatment of epidemiological infection by COVID-19, as well as the replacement of normality following it. We will make this proposal in the field of specialty, hopefully a protection logic prevails that balances the two sides of the labour relationship.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u110	Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u111	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: For the Liberal Initiative, collective labour conventions are important for the regulation and regulation of labour relations. They are important, above all, because they represent the negotiated articulation of the interests of workers and employers. They are agreements resulting from the free will of parties with balanced negotiating powers. But for the far-left parties, it is already known that the agreements are only to be fulfilled when it does work and, once again, they come here to defend that the will of one part is enough for an agreement to be eternal. What the proposals of the Block, the PCP and the ENP do is completely ignore the role of employers in the employment relationship. We therefore oppose the elimination of the expiry of collective bargaining and the eternalization of the instruments of this contract. As for the Government's proposal, based on an alleged gap evidenced by the pandemic, we are perplexed. Currently, under the Labour Code, a collective labour convention may, after being denounced, still prevail for a period that may become more than four years and is that period which the Government wants, with suspension for 24 months, to increase. Does this mean that the government anticipates that the exceptional and temporary situation of COVID will still last another two years? None of this is duly justified in the bill whose explanatory statement speaks in a gap. Because the only gap here is the lack of justification for this proposal and proposals without justification deserve our vote against it.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u112	Mrs Emília Cerqueira from the PSD now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u113	Mr. President, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, Secretary of State: in this speech, I would like to make a two-point approach. On the one hand, I refer to the bills presented by the PCP, the Bloc and the ENP, which are more than the same, always revealing the same obstinacy to maintain and eternalize collective conventions irrespective of the circumstances that they live and that do not allow social consultation to be a reality. The situation of companies, the labour market, everything that is the national and international contexts, as the same as those that are at the heart of social dialogue, do not allow the best workers' rights agreements to be reached. We can also not fail to give the following note: whenever we hear the extreme left talk about the end of the contract, it speaks in vain. There are no legal voids in a rule of law. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u114	There is the Labour Code and labour legislation. This is a false argument that was heard yesterday, that is heard today,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u115	It's like the PSD! They are also false arguments!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u116	...tomorrow, every day, and that repeats itself ad eternal without corresponding to reality, unless it is considered that all workers who are covered by the Labour Code are outside the law... [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u117	But this would be much more serious than collective bargaining, which, in fact, the PSD defends. The PSD defends collective bargaining and social consultation and advocates that partners be heard. Having said this, Mr Secretary of State, speaking of the bill, I am pleased to repeat his words: « to protect collective bargaining, to defend collective bargaining, social dialogue, strategy to promote social dialogue, negotiation, exceptional situation, exceptional response». Mr. Secretary of State, speaking of this bill, the Government has communicated this project to social consultation. Dialogue with all partners? Zero! In fact, we are already getting used to this situation! He pretends that he does not dialogue and this has been repeated, at the centre of social dialogue. That was the case with the previous government, and that is the case with it, which is always the same, as we know. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u118	So the question I have left you now is whether you will start negotiating in social dialogue instead of announcing here empty words that do not have any adherence to reality? That's the question I'd like to leave you. So, and analyzing the proposal, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the fact is that the government has set 24 months here, how it could set any other deadlines by visas, because to base it does not. The PSD could understand this deadline if the government made a basis on the state of emergency. But no, the truth is, you chose 24 months in an unsanitary contradiction between your arguments and what you say is reality. On the one hand, it says that dialogue is important. On the other hand, it says, even in the note it sent, that «the dynamic coverage of collective bargaining is influenced by variables such as legal framework and regulation, by instruments such as extension gates, but also by economic cycles corresponding to periods of crisis moments of particular risk and pressure on collective bargaining ». All of us see in this statement, Mr. Secretary of State, except for the government, by the visas. [[Rice from the Under-Secretary of State for Labour and Vocational Training.]] And why? Because, on the one hand, it does not dialogue, it sets an arbitrary deadline and does not take into account reality. But more: we can only actually understand this 24-month proposal, which in fact reminds us of what happened at the end of the debate on the State budget, as a further concession to the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u119	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u120	You don't see it any other way. [[PSD applause.]] It was the Budget, it was the Congress and now, very quickly, this concession comes more to the PCP, which is another attempt to block collective bargaining, regardless of the circumstances, tell the Government what to say. Another thing that is clear to us is that the government is a bit lost and does not talk. It is so lost that today we have the debate on this proposal that it will be voted on without, at least, allowing the deadline for public discussion to pass. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u121	Will the government, in fact, respect social dialogue and meet what is the current situation or will persist in this mistake of favors and abébias — allow me to express it — to the extreme left that no longer wants to end with real social dialogue and collective bargaining? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u122	Mr João Pinho de Almeida, from the CDS-PP, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u123	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: The bill that the government brings to us today is another episode of the leaflet State budget. Therefore, what is at issue here today is no government conviction that has never expressed it so far, it is further a concession in particular to the CFP to compensate for the CFP vote in the State budget. That is why, and only for that reason, it is justified that a party which has always traditionally been on the side of social dialogue and the enhancement of social dialogue appears here, on the one hand, making one of the greatest attacks on this social dialogue, with regard to the position of privilege of one of the parties, and on the other, showing total disrespect for social dialogue, trying to do in Parliament what has been excused to do on its own. That is why the Socialist Party's proposal does not have any other justification and cannot find it in any way. On the other hand, the projects that the parties left the PS bring have total justification for what is their ideological view of society and, in particular, their ideological view of the labour market. It has no problem because it is ideological, it has a problem because of what ideological represents, i.e., a total imbalance in labour relations and in relation to social dialogue and, if taken forward, an absolute injury to workers. This is because this sectarian vision, this anti-democratic view of labour relations, has no other consequence than to harm the workers themselves. Therefore, what we stand for is a total opposition to this vision, which makes the delights of the leftmost parties and from the leftmost wing of the Socialist Party, must also recognize this, but which goes to the rear, for example, of the suspicious former Minister of Labour, Vieira da Silva, who, in the reform that made the Labour Code, followed exactly the opposite path to what the Government now proposes. Therefore, what we say is that if these amendments were positive, they had not recorded reservations, for example, in the opinions of all the social partners we know in the Assembly of the Republic, except for the CGTP (the General Confederation of Portuguese Workers ), in relation to the way this process is being done. And it deserves to contradict what has already been said about the performance of the PSD/CDS government, because what happened in collective bargaining was a reduction both in terms of the number of agreements, or in relation to the workers covered, between 2008 and 2012.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u124	2014!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u125	Between 2008 and 2012 are four years, these four years the Socialist Party ruled three and the PSD and the CDS ruled one.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u126	Mr. Deputies, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u127	I will finish, Mr. President. Therefore, this enormous decline in collective bargaining is due to the glorious government of José Socrates, the Socialist Party and the reversal of this cycle occurred between 2012 and 2015 during the PSD / CDS government. [[Rice from the Under-Secretary of State for Labour and Vocational Training.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u128	Mr. Deputy, you want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u129	Mr Minister, the chart is yours, you're laughing at yourself and the figure you're doing here today.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u130	On behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u131	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As a general rule, the proposals we are discussing here today concern a fundamental problem for the balance of labour relations that relate to collective bargaining. It is a central issue in mature democracies, democracies that value social dialogue, but never forgetting, as Mr. João Almeida has now done in his speech, that this negotiation has an impact on a table where two parts are in unequal conditions, corresponding to work on the side and the most fragile dimension of a relationship that must therefore be regulated and protected. During the years of poor memory of the governance of which Mr. João Almeida took part, the attack on collective bargaining was one of the ways to promote the devaluation of protection at work and to individualize and weaken labor relations. It was also with a machadada in collective bargaining that the right wanted to promote its social model of shock of internal devaluation, individualizing the work factor, making it more subject to negative pressures by employers, and devaluing its contribution to give sectoral strength to workers, to their stability in their employment, to the protection of rights and to the increase of wages.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u132	It's a lie! It's increased!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u133	The dynamism of collective bargaining is associated with the way it is regulated but also with the political guidelines in this regard, and cannot, however, be completely disconnected from the economic cycles, because the withdrawal of trust and the moment we are currently living often translates into a lower propensity for negotiation, for its renewal, and can even lead to an increase in situations of unilateral denunciation of collective conventions and, therefore, to the verification of gaps. The pandemic has interrupted a cycle and a trajectory of stability, economic growth and employment and has suddenly and completely created for all of us, for employers and workers, an exceptional picture of crisis of a huge magnitude and absolutely exceptional contours in the time of our lives, from the uncertainty of the evolution of the pandemic itself. Therefore, it is precisely in this sense and with the aim of ensuring the stability of the collective conventions that the Government submits to the Assembly of the Republic, which aims to suspend, in a transitional and exceptional manner, the count of deadlines associated with the survival of collective regulatory instruments of work, preventing the emergence of gaps in the coverage of collective bargaining, either by exhausting the deadlines of the complaints already initiated, or by triggering new complaints. Labour stability and decent work have been the main dimensions of the Socialist Party's governance since 2015. We have already achieved, with the increase in the minimum wage, an accumulated valuation of more than 25%, we have already achieved the increase in the average wage, we have already achieved the general increase in wages and we have already made changes to the labour laws — this is not a taboo issue for us — such as what we did in the transmission of the establishment, in the subsidiary accountability of temporary workers, in limitations to temporary work itself, at the end of the individual hour bank or in the impossibility of hiring a young person to term only because he is a young person.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u134	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u135	With this, and much more, we have achieved a historical reduction in unemployment, historically high levels of stable employment and, in general, widespread wage growth. What we are currently living is an unprecedented shock, but this unprecedented shock cannot, however, make us ignore the path we are going, particularly in the collective bargaining that has gained a new lightning under socialist governance. Mr. João Almeida said that he did not, but in fact, there was a strong increase in the regulatory and collective regulation instruments published between 2016 and 2019, which covered, on average, 862,000 workers. Do you know what this is, Mr. João Almeida? It is precisely more than twice the annual average of the period between 2012 and 2015, which was 366 000 workers covered. This dynamization of collective bargaining allowed for a great recovery of wages. Workers covered by collective bargaining had an average valuation of more than 13 % and a real valuation of around 8 %, discounted the inflation factors. Collective contracting is therefore a very powerful tool for collective bargaining, for the stability of labour relations, for the value of wages, which must be promoted, never ignoring the fragile balances we deal with, when we deal with labour matters. This is what the government does, and the PS naturally accompanies it, by promoting the exceptional suspension of the deadlines associated with survival and expiry. We hope that this proposal can be approved because this moratorium prevents negative externalities on consolidated dimensions of the model of social and labour regulation that we have in Portugal, such as social dialogue and collective bargaining. We therefore believe that this proposal corresponds to the defence of social dialogue, collective bargaining of sectoral and business charis and, in general, to what is enshrined and enshrined in the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic in terms of collective bargaining, not by chance in the chapter on the rights, freedoms and guarantees of Portuguese workers. I should like to conclude by saying that, with the approval of this proposal, as we hope it will happen here today, we offer a real seat on labour relations at a time of great instability, giving workers and employers the time needed to work on other solutions and so that the government can also propose other changes in labour legislation, without opening the door to the protection of what we have been able to build in the meantime. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u136	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving to the conclusion of this debate, following the reverse order of the legislative initiatives. I would like to ask Mr José Luís Ferreira whether he intends to use the time still available.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u137	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u138	So you have the floor to Mrs. Isabel Pires of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u139	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: At the end of this debate there are two notes that we could not stop making. On the one hand, the interventions which the parliamentary right has made in relation to what is the essence of the labor relationship, the Labour Code and the need for protection of workers should make any person look ashamed. Mrs. Members, it is not possible to say here that if you want to protect the worker more at the moment, when, in fact, in a working relationship, the worker is the weakest part. from there the Labour Code has, in fact, as essence, the protection of the worker. And they didn't remember social dialogue, they didn't remember talking to unions or any social consultation when it was time to completely disrupt the Labour Code and implement measures in the wake of all that was common sense in labor relations.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u140	Would you like to conclude, Member of Parliament, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u141	I will finish, Mr. President. They only use social dialogue when they're interested.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u142	Always!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u143	Mr President, even to conclude, the question that remains in this debate for the PS and for the Government is this: if you agree that the expiry of the contract is a problem and it is a mechanism that protects workers and if we are already going into the second moratorium of this mechanism, why not move forward to a definitive solution to the problem? Oh, my God! This is what unions and workers want to know right now. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u144	You now have the floor on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Diana Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u145	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There is an exercise and a question that is currently being raised, in fact, two questions. One is to know who wins with the expiry of the collective contract and the other is to know who loses with the expiry of the collective contract. And these almost 20 years of the introduction of this element, because it dates back to 2003, to a PSD / CDS government, have shown that whoever wins with the expiry of the collective contract is the patronage,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u146	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u147	... that blocks negotiations, which blackmails the unions, saying that it does not increase wages, if the unions do not accept to reduce rights. It is the employers' associations and the employers' associations who have won with the lapse of collective bargaining, using, in fact, all kinds of mechanisms and subterfuges to blackmail trade unions and workers and to withdraw rights.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u148	You would like to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u149	Even to finish, they lose the workers, the many who are not covered and the many who have lost rights over all these years. And the example we gave in the initial intervention of the food industry workers is clear. Mrs. Members, it is more than 50 000 workers who, 10 years ago, have not reviewed the collective bargaining and the overwhelming majority brings home the national minimum wage, because the employer refuses to negotiate because the employer blocks the collective bargaining. To these workers, the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen have not even spoken one word! [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u150	To close this debate, then, you have the floor on behalf of the Government, Mr Under-Secretary of State, Labour and Vocational Training, Miguel Cabrita.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u151	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I believe that, in this debate, we must distinguish the overall dimension of the structural dimension. On the conjuncural dimension, I realize that giving a horizon of safety and stability to workers and special protection to workers and to existing collective contracts for two years is something that the banks of the PSD and the CDS do not understand. Don't do your dishes! I understand that perfectly,... [[PSD protests.]] ... but believe that the workers also understand, and those who defend collective bargaining realize - perfectly. As regards the structural dimension, I would like to welcome the proposals that have been brought here. It is known that we have perhaps some divergences in the way we see collective bargaining, but one thing we know: we all defend collective bargaining and we have a genuine concern about workers' coverage for this reality. The right was able to say here that during the PSD/CDS government there was an increase in collective bargaining. Take a good look! It's false, sir!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u152	The document is yours! It's yours!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u153	I get, I discuss where you want, whenever you want, the numbers you want, about quality of employment and collective recruitment. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It's false what I said, it's literally false! There's no other way to say it. What I wanted to say about this is that the right to collective bargaining has to be defended and valued, not only because it is a constitutional right, which is obviously a fundamental issue, but because it is something substantially important for workers and businesses. In our view, the right to negotiation is, in spite of everything, distinct from the right to a concrete contract, in an eternity. We understand that collective bargaining to be useful, valued and sustainable must be able to update, be appropriate to reality and have mechanisms that promote its renewal. Today, it is known that there is in the Labour Code the mechanism of expiry — this possibility — that the deadlines are far from immediate and that the most favourable treatment exists in a wide range of subjects. But does this mean that the law is perfect, that it is not likely to be discussed, scrutinized and altered? in this respect, as in others, it is clear that the Government must be democratically available for this discussion and must be available to listen not only to the parties, but also to the social partners, who accompany the labour market and who have a very particular responsibility in this regard. So to conclude, Mr President, what I wanted to say here is that we do not have a fixed and deterministic view of the collective contracts or of the laws that frame them. Therefore, any law, including the Labour Code, is subject to discussion and scrutiny. And, as regards the proposals that exist, of course, we have to open them up to discuss them here, as in the case of social dialogue, because, as we know, we argue that work matters must be closely monitored by the social partners. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u154	Mrs. Members of the Bureau shall record the registration of Mr João Almeida, and shall therefore do so in favour of informing the reason for his registration.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u155	It is for an appeal to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u156	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u157	Mr President, we are going to be called to vote on the bill that has been tabled here today. This bill has entered into Parliament with a supporting document which has two graphs of the DGERT ( Directorate-General for Employment and Labour Relations ), which indicate the evolution of collective bargaining in Portugal in recent years. [[PS protests.]] These graphs show that, between 2008 and 2011, collective bargaining decreased and, between 2012 and 2015, collective bargaining increased.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u158	And the interpellation is...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u159	As Mr. Secretary of State, who presented the bill, said the opposite of what the Government has said to us,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u160	That's an intervention!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u161	... I would like to know whether the Bureau can inform us whether, in order to vote in a familiar way, we must make faith in the document or in the words of the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u162	Mr President, of course, you will not want me to reply to whom you should believe,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u163	I have a clear vote!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u164	... the honourable Member will have faith in those who understand very well, as it is obvious, and will certainly vote in a clear way at the time of the decision. We move on to the next item on the agenda, which consists of the joint debate of draft resolution No 729 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Recommends to the Government a set of measures for the more effective and efficient use of EU funds, in particular within the framework of Cohesion Policy, the Strategic Plan for Common Agricultural Policy and the European Union Recovery Plan, the Draft Law No 589 / XIV / 2. a ( IL) — Creation and maintenance of the Transparency Portal by an independent entity, in general, and of Resolution Projects Nos 714 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government submit quarterly reports to the Assembly of the Republic on the negotiation and implementation of the European funds allocated to Portugal under the Next Generation Programme and the multiannual financial framework 2021 - 2027 and its implementation of the economic recovery plan Portugal 2020 - 2030 and 748 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — Recommends that the Government establish a public platform by demonstrating, transparently, accessible and territorially, the allocation of European funds allocated to Portugal through the multiannual financial framework 2021 - 2027 and the EU Next Generation Recovery Fund. To present the legislative initiative of the Socialist Party, Mr Nuno Fazenda has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u165	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: To cope with the greatest ever crisis, the Portuguese State will have at its disposal the largest package of European funds that there is memory. The management of Community funds in Portugal has been recognised and praised by the European institutions, in particular by the European Commission itself. Each year the reports and accounts relating to the Community funds have been approved by the General Inspection of Finance and the European Commission, which are then supervised by the European Court of Auditors. The materiality of the failure to manage funds in Portugal has always been below 2 % — of the best performance in Europe. For this reason, Portugal has never had any suspension of payments and we are of the few in Europe that we have never had. Despite Portugal's good performance in the management of European funds, it is always possible to do even more and better, to have even more transparency, greater public scrutiny and better decisions in the application of European funds. And, given the large amount of European funds that Portugal will receive, responsibility is increased. This is a responsibility that calls on all, the government, political parties, institutions and applicants to design good projects and execute them within the deadlines. It is in this context that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group also makes its contribution by presenting a draft resolution with recommendations for an even more effective and efficient use of European Union funds. In this regard, it recommends the following: firstly, the adoption of a 'Simplex' for Community funds is essential. Without losing rigor and transparency, it is crucial to continue to expedite procedures and eliminate bureaucratic barriers, particularly within Portugal 2020 - 2030. This is a critical point. To this end, it also recommends the establishment of an inter-ministerial technical group which makes proposals for simplification in the management of European funds, a working group which brings together the various entities involved in the management of the funds, to have more simplification and less bureaucracy. Thirdly, it recommends promoting the contractualization of public investments with support and accountability of the parties involved around deadlines, objectives and results, so that there is greater predictability and speed in the implementation of the projects. Fourthly, it recommends greater territorial proximity to the governance model of the Community funds, valuing the competences of the coordination and regional development committees and inter-municipal entities. The model of governance of Portugal 2030, approved by the Council of Ministers, points to this principle, which must now be implemented on the ground. Fifthly, the strengthening of the management structures of the European Funds. The work carried out by the current structures of Portugal 2020 must be recognised, but now the requirement is much greater, because Portugal will have to perform two to three times more per year than in any of the previous Community frameworks. It is therefore essential to provide these structures with more resources — human and technological. Finally, it is important to strengthen information, communication and clarification to businesses, institutions and citizens so that they can better understand the Community support available, their rules and existing funding mechanisms. It is essential that the available support of the European programmes be made known in a wider and simpler way. In conclusion, the proper application of the European funds is a challenge which calls for everyone, which does not dispense with anyone and which no one should refrain from doing. This is also the subject of this House's discussion and consideration today. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u166	To submit Bill No. 589 / XIV / 2. a ( IL) — Establishment and maintenance of the Transparency Portal by an independent entity, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u167	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We can discuss the allocation that each party would make of the European funds that Portugal will receive in the next 10 years, but I believe it is consensual that, whatever the allocation, it should be as transparent as possible. This is because transparency in the allocation of these funds is not only an ethical imperative, it is also a valuable contribution to increasing its effectiveness. It is essential that this money — which we will all pay, sooner or later, even with regard to subsidies — has a real impact on people's lives, so that Portugal does not waste this opportunity to modernise itself. The European Structural Funds have been used in the past with questionable efficiency and transparency. Now that we are going to have twice or more of the funds to run every year, the risks of worsening the situation, whether at the level of efficiency or at the level of transparency, are great. Perhaps by being aware of this, this Parliament approved the inclusion of the creation of the Transparency Portal in the State Budget for 2021. Until the PS, who first voted against the proposal of the Liberal Initiative — I don't know if it was the word transparency that disturbed you! - It ended up making it viable. And the Left Block appears here, wanting to stay in the photograph, bringing a recommendation for the government to do exactly what has already been approved in the Budget. What the Liberal Initiative brings here today is different. In order for the Transparency Portal to play its role, we believe it is essential that its design, implementation and maintenance correspond to the highest technical and reliability standards. We therefore propose that this work be carried out by a specialized and independent entity, contracted by the Agency for Development and Cohesion, by public tender. It would be ironic that the Transparency Portal was not, himself, transparent.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u168	To present the Resolution Project No 714 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government submit quarterly reports to the Assembly of the Republic on the negotiation and implementation of the European funds allocated to Portugal under the Next Generation Programme and the multiannual financial framework 2021 - 2027 and its implementation of the economic recovery plan Portugal 2020 - 2030, Mr Duarte Marques.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u169	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is today a day when we are talking about transparency and the proper implementation of the European funds. The day you remember the death of Francisco de Sá Carneiro, it is important to speak on the positive side of politics. We are gathered here, agreeing with almost everyone, including the Socialist Party, who has been so outraged by the criticisms that the PSD has made about the use of Community funds in recent years, and which today, in a draft resolution, subscribes to all the criticisms that we have made. For a secular party, it is a great act of contrition. But this is positive and should deserve our applause. The PSD proposal is very simple. As far as European money is concerned, European solidarity is concerned, the Government and this Assembly of the Republic must have a time when we can get to know the facts, the values of implementation, the beneficiaries, the indicators, with total transparency. We have a new opportunity to make structural reforms in Portugal. We still have half of the current framework programme to be used, the value equivalent to the total of the European bazouca. We have EUR 12 billion to use, almost EUR 13 billion coming from the European bazauca and we still have the next framework programme. It is an opportunity that we should not waste and that we should for future generations. The PSD has three very concrete proposals, which can only have the agreement of all. First, we propose that the Government submit a quarterly report on the implementation of the Community funds and the current framework programme, such as the next one, or the European bazaar. Secondly, we advocate that the minister responsible for this area should come to Parliament on a quarterly basis and discuss the implementation report. We have to run fast and well. It's not spending too fast, it's running fast and investing well! Thirdly, we propose that the digital platform, which everybody already defends and that the PSD defends for several months, have documentation related to execution and negotiation, and that it say what the candidate and approved projects are, who are the beneficiaries, the producers, what the implementation rate and what the indicators objectives are, so that we can all have the same information. We cannot limit ourselves to an act of faith in relation to what the government announces. We need to have practical information so that we can do our work. If we all know how to comply with this principle, Portugal will come out better, i.e., it will come out more resilient, with greater investment capacity and the economy will grow. If there is transparency, the Government can rely on the support of a Parliament that promotes transparency and, above all, the proper implementation of Community funds. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u170	To present the Resolution Project No 748 / XIV / 2. on behalf of the BE Parliamentary Group, Mrs Fabíola Cardoso has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u171	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have discussed an extended set of legislative proposals on a common concern not only to the Left Block and other political parties, but to the whole Portuguese society: to ensure that the implementation of any European funds is conducted efficiently and transparently, with the necessary information available for the democratic scrutiny required.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u172	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u173	The draft resolution submitted by the Left Block recommends that the Government should set up a public digital platform to demonstrate, transparently, accessible and territorially, the allocation of funds allocated to Portugal through the Multiannual Financial Framework 2021 - 2027 and the Next Generation EU Recovery Fund. Despite the Plurianual Financial Framework, it can lead to a new wave of austerity—through the deficit restriction rules that have been suspended but not eliminated—and despite the limited size of the EU Next Generation Recovery Fund, particularly in view of the cuts announced for cohesion and agriculture areas, the weight of these funds in strengthening public investment in key areas for our country such as health, education, agriculture or infrastructure is undeniable. The experience of previous programming periods has shown that the implementation of the Structural Funds has not always been conducted efficiently. Failures in the dissemination and accessibility of information were also found. These factors, coupled with the fact that the financial implementation is now nearly tripled in previous years, have deepened the importance of transparency mechanisms. The availability of all information in a single portal, properly simplified and with a territorial differentiation, would increase transparency, facilitate geographical proximity and the possibility of scrutiny of the processes. It is important to simplify information in order to allow real involvement not only of State institutions, but also of civil society and the general population, contributing to the better use of these funds. To ensure the demanding implementation and functioning of this public platform, we also propose strengthening of human, technological and financial resources. These characteristics, which are the main characteristics of the Left Block proposal, are also found in the proposals submitted by both the PS and the PS and even the proposal submitted by the Liberal Initiative, which, at the head of the State budget, we have followed. So we will also approve them. That approval, however, does not mean any reduction in our commitment to continue to follow all stages of the process relating to European funds here with urgency and rigour.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u174	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u175	The project presented by the Socialist Party, which we have discussed here, specifically refers to the Strategic Plan of the Common Agricultural Policy ( PEPAC ), but while the Government has put this same Strategic Plan in public consultation only until, however, on December 11, 2020! In line with the discussion of the State budget and in the middle of the pandemic, the Government considers that 26 days are short enough for the analysis of all the information that was made available only on 16 November. On transparency, communication and appreciation of citizen participation, we understand! To help overcome this situation, the Left Block presented a draft resolution with a view to extending the deadline for the first phase of the PEPAC public consultation process and the training of people and institutions who contribute to reducing the environmental and socio-economic problems that its implementation has caused in Portugal. We are available to contribute to the construction of a proposal which consensualizes the best way of responding to the common intention: simplifying and making transparent the allocation of European funds to Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u176	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u177	The proposal submitted by the Liberal Initiative aims to outsource the creation and maintenance of this Transparency Portal. It proposes a public tender for a new PPP (public-private partnership) which would be implemented, and I quote, « (...) through the conclusion of a contract for the acquisition of services with an independent entity(...) », meaning private. It does not seem to us that this is the best way to simplify and ensure transparency, so we will not follow the IL proposal. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u178	You now have the floor to Mrs Inês de Sousa Leal of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u179	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We are discussing today a set of recommendations to ensure more participatory management of the European funds, which we generally follow. However, we see with great caution the question of simplifying management, since it is important to ensure the effective and speedy implementation of these funds, no less important is the guarantee that such management does not go beyond the limits imposed by law. This is because, as the NAP has repeatedly stated, the risks of corruption and conflicts of interest in the management of European funds have not only disappeared as they are even greater in the context of the health crisis of COVID-19. Such risks must concern us and mobilize us all, since OLAF ( European Anti-Fraud Office ), the anti-corruption body of the European Union, as it is well known, has already stated that 0, 44 % of the structural and agricultural funds received between 2015 and 2019 should be recovered by the European Commission due to its misuse and irregularities in its use. This percentage means that we are the third country that loses the most in European funds for financial irregularities and this must be avoided at all costs, especially at a time when the rate of investment will be two to three times higher than in previous years, in the order of EUR 6 billion per year, which we will miss so much for the country's economic recovery. For the NAP, the way to avoid this must be to prevent the acritical smoothing of control mechanisms, as well as the creation of new transparency mechanisms and, above all, citizen participation. That's the way we've been going. We therefore rejected, with our vote against, the recent amendments to the Public Contracts Code which, in our view, increased the risks we pointed out. in a proactive position, which seeks to build bridges for the positive in order to ensure new citizen participation mechanisms, we proposed and succeeded in approving, in the context of the State budget to 2021, the increase in transparency of green hydrogen business and the creation of a portal of transparency for European funds which made public, in a clear, accessible and disaggregated way, in real time, the measures and projects supported, their budgetary cost, the number of beneficiaries, the beneficiary entities and the criteria for allocation, as well as the different procedural phases and their degree of implementation. We have made these progress in the area of transparency, but it is now Parliament's time to ensure that this process is as involved as possible and that, contrary to usual, it does not turn its backs on the scrutiny of civil society. To ensure this, it is essential that, following the good recent examples of the climate convention created in France, or of the assembly of citizens for the reform of the democratic system in Germany, ensure the establishment of an independent committee, consisting of organisations representing civil society and independent citizens, without partisan links. This committee will be responsible for monitoring all these phases of the European funds which will soon be reached, and we hope that we will assist the Parliamentary Committee on Monitoring in the recovery phase with its contributions.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u180	The next intervention is for Mr Bruno Dias of the CFP. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u181	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Since the first hour the CFP has expressed the need for a policy of managing the Structural and Investment Funds that assumes a management not only transparent, but democratic, decentralized, oriented towards local and regional public development and not for closed bureaucratic management, oriented towards the financing of large companies and inaccessible to local development agents. The necessary response to national problems is not compatible with the choices expressed in the options of the European Union and the Community funds. The vision and the options that go through them do not include the necessary exploitation of workers, their wages and rights, but they propose the maintenance of all instruments of neoliberalism, completely illustrate the constraints imposed by the absence of monetary sovereignty and by a public debt that consumes indispensable public contests, assume the State as an facilitator and funder of economic groups and ignore the domain, by foreign capital, of enterprises and strategic sectors. The development of the country requires sovereign options not dependent on the criteria and decisions of third parties. It needs an own agenda, which looks at national problems without constraints or constraints, particularly in the use of Community funds, but also requires a bet on public investment and own national funding, which enables us to face and overcome this dependence on European funds, which limits and compromises the country's capacity, at strategic and even political level, in the sovereign development options that we cannot abdicate. The various initiatives which are under consideration at this point in the agenda of the plenary session do not generally deserve fundamental objections to the measures proposed. We must not fail to point out that, in view of the issues which concern the management and implementation of the Structural Funds, which are expected to come, there are, in fact, political options which are and will be reflected in the partnership agreement that will still be carried out, but which stems from decisions within the institutions of the European Union, and everything indicates that there will still be a lot of water under the bridge, as it will be later on in the debate on the next European Council meeting. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we must also make some comments, from the fact that we do not agree with the strategic and political alignment that the Government and the PS are defending with regard to the governance and management of Community funds, in aligning these options with the options of the so-called « decentralisation », which is no longer the municipalisation and transfer of competences to the municipalities which the Government has been seeking to impose. On the other hand, we do not fail to point out that it is important not only to safeguard public management and to safeguard transparency in this monitoring of scrutiny and monitoring, but, from the outset, to public control of these mechanisms and not to the delegation in PPP measures, as we have been observing here. On the other hand, still, the problem is not so much what is written there, but what cannot be said. The priority in the implementation of the Structural and Investment Funds must in fact be public investment in the modernisation of national infrastructure, the implementation of the necessary equipment for public services, the response to population problems, and, from the outset, the fight against regional asymmetries and territorial cohesion. If this is not taken as a central and priority issue, if we again have the Structural Funds as a public funding mechanism for the private interests of large economic groups, then there, Mr President. Gentlemen, there are no Internet portals that solve the problem. It is even better to prevent than to remedy, and the question is even at the level of the policy options and the development strategy that the management of these funds and their application should corporate and translate. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u182	You now have the floor on behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, Mr João Gonçalves Pereira.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u183	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to welcome the different parties for these initiatives and stress that the CDS, in all matters of scrutiny, transparency, control of what the European Union funds are, as is evident, is and will agree. However, I would like to underline the draft resolution submitted by the Socialist Party. I must say, Mr Nuno Fazenda, that the CDS would be in a position to present a text similar to the text you are presenting, because it reveals, although we have felt some strangeness, a huge concern about the application and monitoring of Community funds. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group has proved to be a kind of government division, a sort of general direction—go there—and a very concerned general direction, very concerned. Just read the text presented here by the Socialist Party. And what does the Socialist Party, to such leadership, ask the government? Come ask for a « Simplex», come ask for transparency, come ask for predictability, ask for speed, come ask for more human resources and more material resources, come ask for efficiency, come ask for public scrutiny, come ask for more information and clarification mechanisms. So this is the PS of Parliament that distrusts the PS in government. We, CDS, follow precisely this mistrust of the world that comes there. But this brake is no longer unpublished which the PS Parliamentary Group itself, to this Directorate-General, applied during public procurement. Let us remember: the government, in what were contracts at the level of prior consultations, proposed and presented to Parliament a proposal of EUR 5, EUR 3 million. The Socialist Party has reduced and presented here a proposal of 750 thousand. Then it was 1 million euros. So here is a great mistrust on the Socialist Party's part of the government, and we follow that. We must also highlight the following — it is important, and I have mentioned it several times: Mr Prime Minister when he announced to the country the package of measures to support the economy, to companies, to what they will be able to apply, he was talking about something like about EUR 6 billion. The problem is that companies don't know what the Prime Minister is saying, which means that the Government and the Prime Minister, to get to these EUR 6 billion, account, have analyzed, they know exactly what projects, what applications and what companies could compete, precisely so that you don't hear that very common thing that you hear: that, whenever there's funds, it's for friends, it's for some companies... It's to avoid that. Until this is a unique opportunity that the country has, it is important that the information is available, and clearly available, with deadlines, especially for micro and small enterprises, which are often the ones that have more difficulty in accessing the information, so that they can have that information available and, of course, can apply and benefit from these same funds as well. Finally, Mr President, I would like to stress our agreement with the projects presented and reaffirm that we accompany the Socialist Party of Parliament in its mistrust and reservations with regard to the Socialist Party in the Government. We shall therefore be here to vote in favour of the various initiatives.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u184	Mr Emídio Guerreiro, from the PSD, now has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u185	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, four years! The gentlemen. Members of the Socialist Party took four years to recognize the fairness of what we have been here defending and asking for the government! I cannot fail to congratulate Mr Nuno Fazenda for having convinced his group colleagues in a few more years to change the position. That is why I congratulate you, because, in fact, meeting what we have been asking for over these four years is important and it is a very positive development which the Democratic Social Party is experiencing. More transparency, more control, more decentralization, strengthening the management and control structures of the Community funds is what we have been complaining over the past few years and what the Socialist Party never wanted. And we could have done so when we once again called for action to speed up the procedures so that the funds could reach their target. What was in fact a concern of the Government, accompanied by the Socialist Party, to reduce the allocation of the regional operational funds to put them in national funds, without moving into the rules, or rather by moving and decreasing the capacity of the coordination committees, which should be valued and which were clearly ostracized at that time. Therefore, I recognize this evolution of the Socialist Party, change that, once again, I greet. If the Socialist Party had listened to what the PSD requested, especially from the debate on the reprogramming of Portugal 2020, and throughout the many moments we had here, perhaps at this time 12 billion of Portugal 2020 would not need to be executed, which is supposed to end at the end of this month.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u186	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u187	We could have been faster and more effective in channeling the funds to businesses, families, authorities, and investment itself, but that was not the option. Of course, when we look at public investment numbers throughout the socialist government of the last five years, we realize that public investment has gone below the levels, beating records of the last 60 years, in 2016, of the smallest public investment!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u188	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u189	In fact, this is not unlike how they managed this investment. I therefore doubt that this evolution of the Socialist Party is well received by Minister Nélson de Souza, who never wanted to know anything about this, i.e. to create more control, transparency, more decentralization, strengthen the competences of the CCDRs (coordination and regional development committees) of the inter-municipal communities. It may be that this development which the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group now shows is also reflected in the government. It would be good for everyone, because when we look at what's coming here, our ambition to run two or three times more Community funds per year than what we've done in recent years is, in fact, a huge job, I'd say that it would be almost the twelve works of Hercules. Therefore, if we are not able to realize that we need to have confidence in the partners to whom the decision belongs, next to the ground where it can be effective and faster, we will not succeed. We will continue to have ads, ads, ads, and unfortunately we will miss the opportunity. I hope that this is not the case, because for the benefit of Portugal and the Portuguese, the Government cannot, in fact, continue with this way of proceeding and implementing Community funds. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u190	For an intervention, Mr Nuno Fazenda of the Socialist Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u191	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to begin by welcoming the various questions that have been raised and saying that perhaps by distraction, some of the speakers will not have understood well or will not have listened carefully to what I said. First of all, it has been stated, and explicitly—and is recognised not only by the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group but also by the European institutions—the sound management of the Community funds in Portugal. This is done at various levels, but let's talk about two. First, let's see how execution has been. They said the execution is low. Well, I will show you a chart, which I do not know, in which, in 15 countries, Portugal is the second country with the greatest implementation of Community funds — in 15 countries! The speaker displayed the chart he mentioned. These are countries with budgets above EUR 7 billion. And this good implementation of the Community funds means that Portugal has not lost Community funds under Rule No 3, unlike other countries such as Spain, the United Kingdom, and beyond. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Portugal managed to manage well and managed to implement Community funds well. But apart from implementation, where we are, within the European framework, the second best country in 15 countries, we must also see the rigour. Do we manage with rigour or do we not handle with rigour? And what the European institutions tell us—and we are not the independent entities—such as the General Inspection of Finance and the European Court of Auditors, is that the accounts are certified and the materiality of the error is below 2 %, which also places Portugal as the country that has had the best performance in terms of transparency and management of Community funds.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u192	The government is five years old!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u193	But that doesn't mean it's okay, of course not. There is always room to do even better and better, and that is what is proposed here. What we propose is a 'Simplex' for Community funds. Do you know what you've done about it? They ended with the Simplex when they were government and the PS restored the Simplex for the entire Public Administration. And that's a point that matters to bear in mind. As far as the PSD proposal is concerned, it is up to me to say that what they bring to the debate is to request the submission of three quarterly reports and the arrival of the members of the government. Now, the government is coming here and the quarterly reports are being presented.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u194	So what? That doesn't mean anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u195	The government members come here four times a year, also quarterly. There is a possible committee of COVID only to follow up on measures to implement, recover the economy and implement Community funds. And yet what you are presenting is a redundancy of what already exists. The reports are already prepared by the AdC ( Competition Authority ). It was good that they could see that these reports already exist, but perhaps they could not see and take these notes. Mr President, I believe I am coming to the end of my time. Perhaps I can use the time I have for the end of the debate if you understand.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u196	Sir, I'm just asking for a moment. [[Pause.]] You may end, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u197	Thank you very much, Mr President. We can conclude this debate by referring to three or four notes. The first is that the Government has successfully managed to have the largest package of European funds that there is memory. And it not only took advantage of these European funds to face the greatest ever crisis, as it has developed a strategy for the country. It developed strategic references that were the subject of public debate, recently approved the Portugal 2030 Strategy, also approved the governance model for the management of Community funds and ensured that we will not have a hiatus in receiving Community funds. Portugal 2020 will be in force until 2023 and there is the possibility of using the funds of the future Community Support Framework on the basis of the current rules. The fact is that the government has been ahead of time in this respect, since we do not yet have the agreements approved by the European Commission and we already have the strategy, we have the governance model defined and we also have the strategy to implement it. But, as I said, despite this good performance, we can do more and better, and that is why we propose simplifying procedures and strengthening management structures, which have done a good job. And, on strengthening management structures, the government plans to hire 1000 superior technicians for the Public Administration and we are also in the process of digital transition. Therefore, even though the Government has developed several public clarification sessions at the level of the Community funds, to disseminate everything that is supported, it is clear that we always have room to simplify language more and to better clarify our citizens and our companies as regards Community funds. This is what we have tried to bring about with this draft resolution, with recommendations for the positive so that we can better develop the implementation of the Community funds in Portugal. It is regrettable that what has come from other parties is restricted to a portal, a portal of transparency that has already been announced by Mr. Prime Minister and that has already been approved in the State budget,... [[PSD Member Protest Duarte Marques.]] ... and, in addition, to the submission of quarterly reports, with a more bureaucratic-administrative logic, rather than adding more value, because this discussion is already done and never the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group objected to any member of the Government being able to provide clarification on matters they wanted, including matters relating to Community funds. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u198	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have thus concluded this item on the agenda. Now let's interrupt our work. However, the Bureau draws attention to the fact that our work will start again at 3 p.m. and, since an interim vote will take place, outside the period of the legislative votes, on the renewal of the state of emergency, it is necessary for the ladies and gentlemen. Members shall renew their presence from that time onwards. It would be very important for the parliamentary groups and the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, they had that in mind. Good lunch. We'll go back to work at 3 p.m. The session is interrupted. [[It was 12 hours and 20 minutes.]] [[After the interruption, President Eduardo Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u199	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is resumed. [[It was 15 hours and 4 minutes.]] I remember that, for quorum purposes, Members can now register, since a vote will take place quite early in the afternoon. We shall now proceed to the debate of the Report on the Implementation of the State Declaration of Emergency from 9 to 23 November 2020. To open the debate by the Government, Mr. Minister of Internal Administration, Eduardo Cabrita.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u200	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Government is today, as is its legal, constitutional and political obligation, to take account of what was the first period of the state of emergency, determined by decree of the President of the Republic, approved by the Assembly and executed by decree implementing the responsibility of the Government, corresponding to the period from 9 to 23 November. In fact, we are living in a second fortnight of the state of emergency at the moment. We will then hold a debate on the further extension of this state of emergency in accordance with the decree which the President of the Republic made yesterday to the Assembly of the Republic. Therefore, I would say that, in this overview as a whole, this was proven to be a necessary, appropriate and proportional measure to the adoption of this model of use to the figure of the state of emergency in this period. The state of emergency allowed, as we stated, to strengthen the legal framework for restrictive measures of fundamental rights in the strict measure necessary for the pursuit of the public health purposes that were defined by the strategy pursued by the Government. It also allowed for the first time to make a clear territorial differentiation of the measures applicable to each area of the national territory due to the epidemiological incidence. These measures were again guided by a generalized and exemplary accession of citizens, which resulted in an essentially pedagogical intervention by the security forces. in this period, the resources were mobilized both in the launching of epidemiological screening mechanisms, either in the mobilization of rules on the use of masks and restrictions on access to public spaces, which allowed them to create space to defend the National Health Service (NSS ), to defend the ability to use resources of those who, in hospitals and in everything that is the first line of response, guarantee what other public policy sectors cannot do: to defend those who are sick, heal them and ensure a rapid recovery. The measures prove, in fact, by the evolution of their incidence levels, that they are producing results. We had a very significant increase in cases of hospitalization in intensive care units and, unfortunately, in terms of number of deaths, during November we doubled the number of cases recorded in respect of the case since 2 March. These measures are already taking effect and lead to the fact that, in deep solidarity between all the organs of sovereignty, but above all, in solidarity with the struggle for freedom, the fight for the health of the Portuguese, together, we mobilize ourselves to continue adopting them, thus ensuring the containment of the epidemic and the response to the disease. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u201	I am aware that there is already enough quorum to proceed to all the votes. There are 159 ladies and gentlemen. Member States. For an intervention, Mr André Ventura, of the Arrival, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u202	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: What this report shows us is the reality that has not been presented. It is because the government presented the measures of the hidden state of emergency of the Portuguese, on a night when we knew that trade was going to close at 1 p.m., that there would be restrictions on holidays and others that we did not know. This is on the part of the same government that said at the meetings with all the parties in this Parliament that the country would not endure a new confinement. What was done was to legislate on the back of the Portuguese and tell them that they had to implement measures which, consensually, had all accepted not possible. But this was also the state of emergency of intolerance, which well demonstrates a tent mounted at the door of this Assembly, during days and nights, in hunger strike. And he had to be the President of the House of Lisbon doing a supposed mediation to end the circus that was mounted there. It was the emergency state of intolerance. But this is still another state of emergency, the one that has forgotten the sectors that have contributed most to the economy in recent years, those to whom Antonio Costa had connected saying « I need your help to dignify Portugal and the Portuguese economy». The state of emergency has left out these sectors.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u203	Mr. Deputies, you've exceeded your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u204	I shall conclude by saying that this report shows how the Government only reports what it is interested in. And for that, we're not worth discussing.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u205	For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Silva of the Greens has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u206	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We are debating today the Report on the Implementation of the Declaration of the State of Emergency from 9 to 23 November. The Greens have made it clear, since the beginning of these difficult times for the country, that this is not the instrument necessary to prevent the spread of the virus. We said in the past today that, as long as the Portuguese continue to look at the full sense of responsibility for the recommendations of the public authorities, the Government continues to have within the normal legal framework all the conditions for nothing lacking in this fight. We welcome the Portuguese for their compliance with the security measures and, even after a calmer summer as far as the number of infections is concerned, they have been able to do what was required of them. This report tells us of normality as if it were normal. Not all work can be done through telework and therefore there are many who need to travel to their workplaces, to schools in public transport that guarantee them security and where it is possible to keep the distance required. However, we continue to witness promises. Although the limit of people in closed places is established for the most diverse spaces, we still do not see the same rule applied in public transport. We read the report and it seems that we are talking about another country. I refer to those who have been working to keep companies and essential services in operation, those who have assumed solidarity with those who need them, but who have not given up acting and fighting for rights and for what they believe, and, in particular, the professionals of the National Health Service, who once again have given all they could to minimize the effects of the epidemic that we face. The state of emergency figure continues to be used at the end of almost one year and the necessary changes continue to be applied to stocks. In a state of emergency, it is decided again to reduce transport schedules, which continue to be overcrowded, despite the report to inform us that « have been sporadic and punctual events where values close to 2 / 3 of the vehicle capacity have been found ». There are abandoned localities to which the mobility and normality of primary health care has not yet been returned. The schools have returned to their present activities, as we defend, but we cannot fail to say that it is regrettable that a government that favours both digital media and technological development in public services has not been able to work a program that monitors the cases of CVID-19 in schools throughout the territory to ensure greater security and confidence for students, the school community and education officials. And unfortunately nothing is said in this report about the impact of these measures on mental health, particularly young people.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u207	For an intervention, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, of the Parliamentary Group of the PAN, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u208	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We appreciate today more a state of emergency report, in a context where the numbers are quite clear and in which there is a trend of growth that not only remained as it gained worrying proportions, the average of confirmed cases of infection per day more than twice as compared to the values of the previous month. In addition to these numbers, we also witnessed, in this emergency period, a very significant increase in cases in hospital admissions, and there are already more than 4000 people who lost their lives for the COVID-19. With regard to the economic crisis that we are experiencing, in the economic indicators that this report brings us, we again see a very negative trend, with the withdrawal of the consumer confidence indicator in November and the reduction of the confidence of economic operators, a reality that, to know it, we did not need a report, because we simply look at our streets and what has been the systematic closure of the various sectors, trade and services, to realize the difficult socio-economic crisis we are going through. We therefore reinforce what we have already said: it is urgent to give stability and predictability to the measures taken. That is the only way we have managed to ensure that Portuguese and Portuguese gain confidence in their future. And as the NAP still had the opportunity to mention yesterday, it is absolutely essential that, in a structured and planned way, we guarantee the existence of support to respond to the different sectors that are being affected by the crisis, such as culture, restoration, trade, services, among many others. However, we know that the measures that aim to contain or minimize the risk of spread of the virus are producing effect, because, as experts advise us, the measures currently in force should not be drastically lifted, but should first be progressively and planned and, of course, articulated with what the vaccination plan will become. We must once again stress the importance of the preparation, decision and implementation of the measures to be taken in a responsible manner and with full respect for the principle of proportionality and necessity, with a balance between the sacrifices requested and the advantages obtained, without forgetting the need to communicate these measures in a clear and coherent manner. Since this crisis is certainly not just a health crisis, but it is also an economic, social and environmental one, it is essential that the measures taken are capable of giving global responses and providing effective assistance to all sectors of society, or we will be at risk of leaving the pandemic period in complete social and economic catastrophe or also guided by incoherence. What cannot happen is that we require measures and confinement of Portuguese and have counter-circumculating actions which are contradictory to what is required. Much has also been said about the risk of this health crisis weakening our democracy. But the state of democratic law is not only guaranteed in congresses, congresses or similar; the state of democratic law is guaranteed - in this Chamber, it is guaranteed with the capacity of this House to take a role not merely as an observer or a supervisor, but by legislating to provide answers that the country needs so much and so that this health crisis does not undermine our democracy. Weighting up the state of emergency might be a popular measure at this time, but it is not an effective measure for what we are living. in this sense, we will have to continue with the effort that has been made by all and for all, in particular those who are in front of the fight against COVID-19 or to ensure essential services and to whom we will never be able to thank enough, planning, legislating, guaranteeing responses and investments in different sectors, from health to education to housing, among so many others that are absolutely fundamental to the answers that this crisis requires us.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u209	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr João Almeida.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u210	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: In order to assess the government's role in the implementation of the state of emergency, we must examine whether this action has generated confidence, in the sense that the measures it has taken have been balanced, well communicated and have been effective. from the point of view of balance, it seems to us, of course, that this did not happen. There was a restriction of unbalanced freedoms, which transposed into the weekend, into family life and to the just rest to which people are entitled a negative burden, which at first had a supposed statistical justification and which soon ended up being denied. Therefore, if the statistical justification for this option was false, the balance of these restrictive measures at the end of the week was also justified. This restriction has occurred in some sectors with much higher weight than in others. No one can understand why at 1 p.m. restoration facilities had to be closed when, obviously, for two hours, this caused damage that was disproportionate to what, from the point of view of public health, could be protected. Then, in other sectors, as the report says, as in education, for example, there are still no problems of absolute differences between what one and other schools do, even with regard only to the public education offer. On the other hand, we have the communication that, in addition to having been made to poverty, has generated doubts about the content of the measures and its scope. At some point, in the face of exceptions, no one knew what the rule was. In order to comply, the citizens were embarrassed by a complexity between the rule and the exceptions and did not know whether the rules applied to them and, if they applied, when they had to comply. Probably, what is most evident in the ineffectiveness of the measures presented is what anyone who went out on the street on a Saturday morning of the weekends to which this state of emergency is concerned. It is obvious that the restriction of the possibility of families and individuals can programme their lives over the weekend and have to restrict in the mornings originated congestions that are far from the one that would be the objective with the entry into force of these measures. So what we believe is that the government is reporting its performance in this state of emergency is the maximum restriction and the minimum confidence. And in a rule of law, in a democratic state, in a state in which freedom must prevail, the maximum restriction imposed by a government that is incompetent can never work well.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u211	Mr João Oliveira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u212	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We believe that this report, which the Government is presenting in respect of the first 15 days of the state of emergency, which has already been declared in November, raises doubts, or rather, does not clarify the continuing doubts about the real effectiveness of restrictive measures and the need for the state of emergency to combat the epidemic, nor does it give a complete response to the need for support solutions, particularly for social and economic support, in the face of the boom in the economic and social problems resulting from these restrictive measures. These are two aspects which, for us, continue to be fundamental in the approach to measures to be taken in the fight against the epidemic, whether or not in the context of the state of emergency, we understand that beyond the state of emergency, without the need of the state of emergency. I mean, ladies. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, that the report does not, in our view, adequately reflect the evolution of the economic and social impacts of restrictive measures throughout its scope, because, looking around, contacting economic agents, contacting small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, contacting workers, trade unions, social and cultural organisations, with cultural, recreational and sport groups by that country outside, let us realize - from an economic and social reality whose negative impacts, which are a direct consequence of restrictive measures, go far beyond what is reflected in this report which the Government presents to the Assembly of the Republic. And it was important for this dimension of national reality to be properly identified here so that, from the point of view of the measures to be taken, if it could make a real assessment of its adequacy and its need. At the same time, this means that the report itself cannot reflect the truly dramatic circumstances resulting from the lack of support for small and medium-sized enterprises, the economic sectors that have been whipped by the crisis for months and which continue to have no response to their immediate needs, not only to be able to cope with the costs, charges and costs that continue to have, even if they have no economic activity, but above all to look forward to the future. What will be the future of economic sectors that are unable to develop their activity or very limited from the point of view of the conditions they have and the possibilities that they are given to them in order to develop their activity? I wanted to end with a very direct reference to health issues and measures that have been taken in the field of health. Nothing that is reflected in this Report on the state of emergency required the declaration of the state of emergency. But we note positively the references that are made to measures taken to strengthen testing capacity, to increase the number of fans or other measures that have been taken in the field of public health. And we stressed this: none of the measures related to strengthening the National Health Service, with the strengthening of public health structures needed the declaration of the state of emergency.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u213	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u214	I will finish, Mr. President. And this should make you think that it really reflects and makes the right decisions, because the state of emergency is increasingly confirmed as a need for what is really essential in dealing with the epidemic and its economic and social impacts. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u215	Mr Moisés Ferreira continued to use the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u216	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It was about a month ago that the Assembly of the Republic approved, and later renewed, the declaration of the state of emergency in the country, and that approval gave the Government additional tools to deal with the pandemic in its various aspects and its various consequences. The question that arises in this assessment to the state of emergency is whether or not the Government has made good use of these tools that the Assembly has provided. at this time, Portugal continues with a high incidence, but with a trend of decline in cases of VOCID, and it is expected that we have already exceeded the peak of the second wave. We continue, however, with a very high number of new cases, with many councils at extreme risk and with enormous pressure on the SNS, in particular about their capacity for hospitalizations, especially in intensive care. In November, the National Health Service lived its most dramatic weeks since the beginning of the epidemic. It was weeks that, in fact, coincided with reports of loss of professionals due to non-renewal of four-month contracts and that coincided with constant appeal by professionals and SNS institutions for the hiring of more professionals. Nevertheless, in the various announcements made by the Government on the implementation of the state of emergency, nothing was said about this need for strengthening the SNS and, even in the private health sector, the Government always preferred to opt for the purchase of services for thousands of euros per day instead of integrating, under the management of the SNS, the resources that were needed. The government has always preferred to buy avoidance from the private sector, in an unplanned way, instead of building a more effective and robust response, integrating this private sector. The government had all the support to make this integration, it had all the support to do this construction, but it lacked the courage to require this sector as much as is being requested, required, workers and so many other sectors of activity. Support measures have also been lacking, i.e. measures to ensure that restrictive measures are accompanied by social and economic support measures. Not having measures that reach the areas most affected by the pandemic is truly condemning the failure of sectors of activity and condemning the unemployment of several workers. The government has been generous in the announcements, it is true, but a lot of progress has been made. The truth is, at the end of all this time, many small businesses in many sectors of activity continue only with ads, and ads certainly do not give to live, much less to survive. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the crisis is health, social and economic, we all know, and to overcome the crisis is to intervene in these three areas, and it is to intervene with robust instruments, which have taken time, is to intervene with concrete and decisive measures and not insist on responding to the minimums, because that is not a solution. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u217	For an intervention, Mr André Neves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u218	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD has historically always presented itself as a responsible party and has always been on the side of the solution, on the side of the fight against this pandemic, saying several times that it would always provide the Government with the tools, instruments and means necessary to combat this pandemic. He therefore voted in favour of the state of emergency, which we have now examined from the point of view of this report. But that does not mean, Mr Minister of Internal Administration, that despite our intention to give the necessary tools to the Government in order to implement and regulate this same state of emergency, it is not without criticism. I would like to highlight two essential notes. First, there was a lack of planning and prevention for the second wave. At the time of the announcement of the regulation of the same state of emergency, we even reached the summit of the municipalities that exceeded the 240 cases per 100 000 inhabitants, when the country had, on average, infections in the order of the 700 cases per 100 000 inhabitants. It was late! The Government's lack of planning and prevention has clearly been noted. Eventually, if we had acted differently, with planning, with prevention, in a timely manner, restrictive measures of movement of freedom and harmful to the economy would have been smaller, not so serious, and the effects on the economy would be different from those they are feeling today. Planning and prevention save lives, save lives, save the economy and save jobs, and it was clearly demonstrated that the regulation of this state of emergency could have been done in another way, in a more effective way, which, in fact, came about in the second regulation of the state of emergency, by escalating the measures by limit of infections, otherwise, not as in the first time. If all of us had known in the summer, in the months preceding the second wave, the limiting measures in the councils by exceeding certain limits of infections, if we had known in a timely manner, we would have acted differently and, perhaps, the SNS would not have entered into the pressure that entered and the economy would not be today suffering what it is suffering. The second note I wanted to leave is in relation to the economy or, better, to the lack of measures to support the economy. This must probably be the only government which, at the same time as it announces restrictive measures for the economy, does not present any compensatory measures to support the economy. What you feel, Minister, is that at the moment the government is unique and simply waiting for the so-called 'basca' to support the economy, our businesses, our entrepreneurs and our workers, but we do not know when that 'basca' will arrive, not even if it will even arrive. They present restrictive measures, but do not present measures to support the economy. They present the Budget, but we do not have any measures to support the economy. When we arrive at the « bazouca», we hope that it will not be too late to save the economy, to save jobs. Wait a minute, Minister! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u219	Mr Pedro Delgado Alves of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u220	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister of Internal Administration, Minister of Health and Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs: The first note we would like to leave is to welcome the information provided, not only in this report on the state of emergency, but throughout the period when the state of emergency is not in force, the Government has never ceased to allow the Assembly to have mechanisms to control exceptional measures, arising from the Basics of Civil Protection Act, which today allow us a complete picture to understand the evolution of the pandemic since the end of the last state of emergency, in May, until, unfortunately, we had to declare it again. There is a continuous improvement in this analysis and this assessment, which also allows us to be clear in the analysis of the proportionality of the measures. This is the key word of this debate, this is the essential word for us to understand the scope of what can be done, what has been done and what is still being done. The need for more restrictive measures at this stage is undeniable. Mr Andre Neves, just look at what is happening in Europe outside, just look at what has happened in other States, which have been surprised by the same characteristics, by the same size, by the same scale, but which, however, have taken even more serious measures, which have penalized their activity the most, to see well that what we have found in the decree declaring the state of emergency is a more appropriate, more proportionate framework, which tries to protect the economy as far as possible as it can be protected and, above all, give priority to the protection of the National Health Service, because we want or do not — and we agree with what has been said by the honourable Members. Members of the Left Block, the PCP, the PAN, and other Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen who have used the floor - more means are needed, these means are coming. Unfortunately, the pandemic comes faster than many of the means that are put into practice to strengthen the SNS and, for the same reason, we cannot also ignore the measures that restrict freedoms at some points, when this is essential and indispensable in order to ensure with proportionality, with balance, measures that ensure the best protection of these two axes: to safeguard the SNS and its ability to respond and save lives and, at the same time, to ensure that the economy continues to live and that it will have to be where to start and where to be strengthened. Once again, Mr André Neves, it is also not correct what he said about not presenting measures. In fact, only during the period that we are describing, at the end of November, a reinforcement to give companies cash capacity of EUR 1, 5 billion, which has been made available and strengthened, must be recognised as what the Republic can currently mobilise. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We know that we will then have the opportunity to benefit from the European effort to continue to do this path, but at the moment measures exist. Obviously, we know of the great difficulty many companies face, we know of the great difficulty faced by the restoration sector, in particular, but we also need to know that it is not arbitrary, that these options to restrict some activities were not a whim, because it is known — it is known with scientific evidence — that there are areas in which the contagion is superior.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u221	You know...!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u222	On the other hand, with regard to your separate part, Mr João Almeida, I would like to say to you that what we know is that we cannot at the same time validate the measures — as Mr and the CDS did at previous times — and then do not want the consequences, in particular, of the validation of these measures. If we recognize, in abstract, that there is a need for restrictions, unfortunately we must deal with the hardness of feeling the effects of these same restrictions. Also for this reason, we cannot agree with the balance, saying that we prefer adjusted measures, but then not to realize that, obviously, this has complexity, it is more difficult to communicate and may not be quite obvious at first. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP João Pinho de Almeida.]] That is why this is a particularly difficult, extraordinarily difficult effort, and that is why I welcome all the parliamentary groups that have used the word, not wanting to divide where the division adds nothing.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u223	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u224	There are those who do not miss an opportunity to always be in the taste of the wind, asking for the toughest of the measures and then criticizing the consequences of the measures that he called for on the eve of the day.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u225	Sir, you have to conclude, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u226	So it's not manipulating the community or manipulating the truth that we're going to achieve something. It is primarily through strengthening the role of all in responding to the pandemic that we will be able to overcome the difficulty. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u227	To close this debate, you will speak on behalf of the Government, the Minister of Health and the Minister of Internal Administration. You have the floor, first of all, Mrs. Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u228	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We often forget that we are dealing with a disease throughout this pandemic. It has failed to understand that COVID-19 is a disease — a new disease, indeed — which, like any disease, requires responses from health systems, but also social responses and individual responses. The state of emergency is not, in fact, an instrument to stop the virus, it is a constitutional instrument, and we use it neither for taste nor for hidden reasons. In fact, we are helping him because we believe in democracy and do not classify him as 'circum' protests that naturally distress us, because we are distressed by all the concerns of the Portuguese people. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there have been no tougher nights, no darker nights than those in which the government is looking for difficult balances. What did the state of emergency serve? For health, in three or four outstanding aspects: limitation to freedom of movement, control of the health status of people with more aggressive means than usual, use of means of care of private, social and cooperative sectors and convening of human resources to strengthen screening capacity. I want to talk in particular about two topics, the first of which is the use of means of health care for private, social or cooperative sectors. I recall, Mr. Moses Ferreira, that is what the presidential decree assigns to us: they can be used by the competent public authorities, preferably by agreement, resources, means and establishments. This is what we did, with the use of about 300 beds in the Regional Health Administration of the North and about 100 beds in the Regional Health Administration of Lisbon and Tejo Valley, the two most pressed. In addition, we use professionals other than those in the health sector to carry out investigations, with about 170 soldiers working on the recovery of epidemiological surveys, as well as technicians from the authorities and teachers. The result and evaluation are in sight: the peak has been reached, the Portuguese are winning, we are all achieving. The speaker displayed a chart. Thank you all very much. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u229	I now give the floor to Mr. Minister for Internal Administration.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u230	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I welcome the approach of the various banks that recognize when we are in this debate in a exercise of democratic transparency, in a exercise of cohesion and in an exercise of mobilization of all efforts to defend democratic freedoms and to defend the health of Portuguese. It is an exercise of transparency because this report allows a detailed debate with a government that provides proof of what it has committed to Parliament and to the Portuguese. This is, in fact, the 10th. the report since March, under the state of emergency or the various exceptional situations provided for in the Civil Protection Bases Act. Secondly, it is a cohesion exercise, allowing to explain which effort of all sectors. I would like those who say that the measures are exaggerated to tell us what the country is, what those who are close to us, who have less restrictive measures. Spain, France, Germany, Italy or the United Kingdom : the challenge to tell them what was, in these countries, the one that had less restrictive measures in November.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u231	You have to finish, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u232	It is an exercise of support for the economy, of solidarity with those who suffer in the most directly affected sectors. As we will see in the next debate — and the results are ahead — this was a period when we were already working for health, maintaining respect for fundamental freedoms, so that the pandemic does not call into question democracy. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u233	We are thus at the end of this agenda item. We now proceed to the debate on the renewal of the authorisation, requested by the President of the Republic, for the declaration of the state of emergency. As you know, the draft decree by Mr. President of the Republic was received yesterday and distributed in a timely manner, that I will take you to read the first paragraph, saving you from reading the others: « The situation of public calamity caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, with still very high numbers of infections and deaths, although there is a trend in decline, with a reduction in the rate of growth of these numbers, but with the clear risks of aggravation in the event of a decrease in the measures taken to deal with it, as warned by the experts and the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC ), requires the renewal of the declaration of the state of emergency, to consolidate the current trajectory. Do not keep on seeking. ” To open the debate on behalf of the Socialist Party, Mrs Constance Urbano de Sousa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u234	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister and other Members. Members of the Government : Today we are again discussing the state of emergency, because unfortunately we still need measures that help to prevent the spread of COVID-19. As can be read in the preamble to the draft decree by Mr. President of the Republic, the tough measures taken under the state of emergency have contributed to improving the indicators of pandemic evolution, in particular the risk of disease transmission, which has a downward trend. This encouraging news adds the hope of soon having a safe, effective and validated vaccine by the European Medicines Agency, in particular that of BioNTech, in cooperation with Pfizer, already authorised in the United Kingdom. Whether the fate, or its irony, that this promising vaccine had been developed by the German company of a couple of scientists and immunologists, Ugur Sahin and Özlem Türeci, children of Turkish immigrants in Germany, a European country where AfD, Alternative für Deutschland, a sort of brother of the Chega, obtains electoral gains with the binary and fracturing speech of « us» and « the others», which fuels hatred against ethnic and religious minorities. In good time Germany welcomed these Turks, which gave rise to this German couple, because, thanks to their talent and competence, we will have access to a vaccine that can free us all from the nightmare in which we live. [[P.S.'s applause.]] However, even though the data are more encouraging, the vaccine is closer and since yesterday we have a vaccination plan, let us not be deceived: the pandemic situation is still serious and we cannot now lower the guard and throw everything away, because unfortunately every day people still die victims of this terrible virus. Even if the European Medicines Agency declares this same vaccine effective and safe, the vaccination process of a whole population, or much of it, is very complex, phased, and can never be carried out in a few weeks or in a few months. We will therefore continue to need security measures and restrict our contacts to the strictly necessary in order to overcome this pandemic. We also need to renew the state of emergency to allow the government to maintain and adopt measures that help to prevent the spread of the virus, save lives and, at the same time, not kill our economy, as the other European countries are doing. I know that, on December 4, everyone is asking the question of how we are going to spend Christmas and New Year, festive times of convivio by nature, which we so cherish. But we cannot forget that these are parties that the virus does not know, so we all have to be aware that all care is little and that no sacrifice is too much when it comes to saving a human life. Today, we will again authorize the state of emergency to allow, like the previous one, differentiated restrictive measures depending on the risk of infection, in order to reduce this risk and save lives. As I said 15 days ago, we are not suspending democracy, nor paying attention to the hard core of fundamental rights, but just balancing our freedom with the well-being of all. As I said 15 days ago, I also continue to have full confidence today that the Government will continue to use these enlarged powers with weight and proportionality. Parliament once again says 'present' and actively and democratically participates in this collective effort to fight the pandemic, because it cannot, as it may never, escape its responsibility to make difficult decisions when it comes to protecting the life, health and well-being of the community it must serve. For all these reasons, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will vote in favour of the renewal of the state of emergency and will do so with the certainty that its need will end on the day we win this battle together. Today, we are much closer to defeating her than we were yesterday, but to do so, we need to keep running this marathon. I know that the last few kilometres of a marathon are the most difficult to travel, because they accuse the tiredness of all those miles that we have already run, but the fact that soon we have a vaccine is a light at the bottom of the tunnel, which must give us strength to unite all our efforts to get to the right port.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u235	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u236	I conclude, Mr. President. This does not depend on the institutions and States, it also depends, and much, on each and every one of us, because the virus lives and feeds on our behavior and on it depends on the lives of many people. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u237	For an intervention, Mrs Mónica Quintela spoke by the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u238	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The data we know of the pandemic show that the restrictive measures of social contacts have had an effect on the reduction of the infection and spread of the virus, leading to a decrease in the number of infected and killed. The experts heard yesterday at the meeting of Infarmed ( National Medicines and Health Products Authority ) reiterated the objective information that compliance with the rules of social distance, the use of masks and the reduction of contacts are fundamental to continue to flatten the curve of the number of infected people and maintain the tendency to drop the disease, allowing space to be released in the National Health Service. The higher the response capacity of the National Health Service, the more lives are saved and more treatments are assured. The renewal of the state of emergency is essential to provide the Government with legal instruments that enable it to implement the measures it understands appropriate to prevent the contamination of the pandemic, which are necessarily restrictive from day to day of citizens and businesses and which contend with the constitutionally enshrined rights, freedoms and guarantees. The PSD, responsibly and with the sense of state that is its stamp, will maintain a collaborative position, always having as its first and last scope the national interest. Portugal is first and, therefore, we are not guided by circumstantial conveniences and exploits of the manifest and multiple failures which the Government has had, because such conduct, in the midst of a public calamity, is detrimental to the interests of the Portuguese. I recall that the Government has benefited from very exceptional political conditions of cooperation by the PSD that would have allowed it to take the management of the pandemic to a much better port than the one in which it has attacked. The fruit of the sense of state that guides the PSD, the government could concentrate exclusively on combating the pandemic, for Portugal, contrary to what happened to other countries, such as neighbouring Spain, which, in parallel with the disaster situation, was seen by the arms with a very strong opposition. There is a time for things and this is the time to save lives and make every effort to defend our country, our people, in all aspects, from health to the economy, which is so impoverished. Therefore, constructively, we cannot but condemn that the government has spent the summer as the cigarette, without taking care to prepare, as was its obligation, the second wave, that we all knew to be certain and very difficult, as well as censoring the lack of link between the Ministry of Social Security and Health, which has been the cause of the scourge that has engulfed the homes, where so many elderly people reside. I cannot silence the unacceptable lack of assistance in the National Health Service to patients who do not have COVID-19. We cannot also shut down the lack of treatment of cancer patients and other pathologies, which have worsened and died in the hands of the Ministry of Health. We criticise the impreparation of the National Health Service for patients with COVID-19 — also for those patients. The pressing need to save lives is not compatible with the ideological prejudices of former and still government partners, who requested resources from private, social and cooperative sectors, in conjunction with efforts with the National Health Service. Continuing in the constant constructive criticism, there is also the living repair of the lack of the promised influenza vaccines, which the Minister of Health said they would not miss. Today, the result is in sight. The government was neither prudent nor predictable, because it was more than obvious that, because of the pandemic, the overwhelming majority of the population would need the vaccine. We do not yet know what measures the government intends to implement, but it does not seem to be inaccurate that they are attenuated at Christmas, the family party par excellence, and that they are more restrictive at the passage of the year. There is an increase in cases at the beginning of January due to the festivities and the fact that vaccines are already announced at this time cannot cause us to lose custody in the prevention of the pandemic. It is true that the Government presented the vaccination plan yesterday, but it is also true that during the first half of 2021 there will be no vaccines available to all in order to allow the recovery of the old normality with the necessary speed. The Government must adjust the measures to the specific circumstances at any time and it is now able to plan the entire time gap by 7 January 2021. The pandemic is far from being deduced, unfortunately, and the gizzard vaccination plan itself is elucidative of it itself, so it is of national interest to maintain the legal framework of the state of emergency. The PSD will vote in favour. My last word is to enhance the attitude of citizenship and responsibility that the Portuguese have had in these difficult times. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u239	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u240	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are making a request, requested by the President of the Republic, for the third renewal of the state of emergency in this second wave of COVID-19. We are at risk of trivializing these debates and forgetting that we are facing an extraordinary element of our constitutional framework. Therefore, it is good to remind ourselves of the importance of the state of emergency in combating this extraordinary emergency, which is the pandemic of the COVID-19. The worst thing we could do was trivialize the suspension of rights, the limitation of constitutionally planned rights and think that the new normal is this extraordinary life we are now witnessing. It is therefore important to always be aware that, if we are now seeing some results in reducing the number of daily infections, these results must be continued in time to ensure that the public health network will not miss either one of us or one of us and that the country can count on the SNS, which will meet the needs in each of the moments of the pandemic. I therefore believe that, first of all, we should ask ourselves about this renewal of the state of emergency, if it is up to this answer. The Left Block today says the same as it said in the previous two debates we had on this issue: the government will not lack the necessary mechanisms to deal with the pandemic. We know that restrictions on freedoms and rights, which affect not only people but also economic activity, have made difficulties in the country. We do not ignore and support these demands from those who look at the government and say that the restrictions must be accompanied by economic support and that there are fragile sectors that need answers. The government has announced support, but has been slow to implement them. I believe that this support which Parliament has given to the Government, so that it does not lack the mechanisms arising from the state of emergency, must be backed up by the implementation of the necessary measures for the economy and people in order to respond to the difficulties they face in this period. On behalf of the Left Block, I wanted to reject an expression that was said here today because, when we talk about the difficulty of people, we should not use them as mere instruments for political demagogy. When, a few minutes ago, Mr André Ventura, on a sector of activity in difficulty, as is the case with the sector of restoration, he referred to the struggle of this sector as a « circus », I believe that he demonstrates as well as there opportunists everywhere, at the glance, who live from the misfortune of others in the name of his political benefit. This is unacceptable in this context and, from the Left Block, it has all our repudiation. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Yes, we must have a responsible attitude towards the country and people, not ignoring the difficulty of their lives and trying to find solutions to their problems. From this point of view, I insist on this point, Prime Minister : it is to the Government, first of all, that solutions should be presented for the measures to restrict freedoms and movement which will be adopted today. from the Left Block, we consider that there is a need for another aspect, which has been delayed and cannot be missed. We know that it is already announced that a vaccine will arrive in the country and that it will begin to be administered in the next month of January, but we also know, and this must be repeated, that this process will take months, so the necessary measures to contain the pandemic must be an individual and collective responsibility. We cannot lower our arms even during these months of vaccination. More: it is in the communication that we have often succeeded in sensitizing people to comply with these measures. If there is something the country has taught us all, even those who thought the law should be draconian towards individual freedoms, it is that individual responsibility has shown itself to be at the height of events. Therefore, a communication strategy that explains that we cannot reduce our care in relation to contact with others, even in family space, even during the holiday period that we are going to live, is fundamental. If we see this in so many other countries, it is strange that it has not yet happened in Portugal as well. I believe that this is one of the measures that the Government could put on the table. As I said, we have made it possible for previous states of emergency and we are now giving the government that possibility again.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u241	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u242	I will finish, Mr. President. Let these mechanisms not be lacking so that, not only in the public health sector but also in the economy, the government will not miss the country in this demanding period. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u243	Mr João Oliveira, from the CFP Parliamentary Group, spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u244	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister and other members of the Government : Repeating the proposal for a declaration of the renewal of the state of emergency, the CFP insists on the arguments for its rejection and insists on the need to respond to the epidemic with the strengthening of the SNS, with the definition of health safety rules in various activities and with support measures to ensure that these health safety rules are implemented and complied with in the various dimensions of our economic, social, cultural and civic life. It is necessary to put an end to the restrictive measures which have been implemented without certainty or confirmation of the effects that may result from them, except the ruin and bankruptcy of whole sectors, unemployment and the poverty of workers. We were left yesterday to know that there is no element that shows that restrictions on movement between municipalities have given some positive result in terms of contact reduction. And we also learned that the decrease in contagios, which has been occurring in recent weeks, began before the state of emergency was decreed. If so, what does the state of emergency really serve? For what purpose are restrictions on movement or compulsory collection, time limitation measures and the operation of trade, services or restoration establishments, measures to limit artistic and cultural activity? What did it all do if, even before these measures were decreed, the Portuguese had already adopted behaviors that allowed the reduction of the number of contagions? This is indeed the central issue of this debate. It is not possible to continue to discuss the renewal of the state of emergency ignoring that the arguments that are used successively to sustain it do not demonstrate, simultaneously passing along with all its implications, of all the problems that it is creating, of all the despair that it sows. This despair must be understood and overcome and not characterized as « circus», as we have heard today Mr André Ventura say. It is not possible in this House to support the declaration of the state of emergency and its restrictive measures, approving them, and then to go to the street lamenting the economic and social impacts they have, as hypocritically continues to do the PSD. The PSD, which here has approved all the statements of the state of emergency and allows all the restrictive measures which result there, then leads to slapping on the backs of the restaurants, hotels, tourism or trade entrepreneurs, which ruines their own decisions. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister : At the moment, there is a fundamental reflection on the problems we are already facing and on our collective future. It is more evident that even with the provision of vaccines already at the beginning of 2021, it will take a long time until the epidemic problem is overcome. And it is also clear that the country does not, for much longer, bear the economic and social impacts of the restrictive measures that have been imposed. It becomes increasingly evident what the CFP has been demanding for months now: the SNS is strengthened, they define themselves, they apply themselves and make themselves comply with the health security measures so that national life continues, but they are hampered by the restrictions that are sinking the country, economically and socially, without solving the problems of the epidemic.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u245	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u246	These decisions should be taken adequately into account for the coming weeks. We all know that the virus will not disappear because it is Christmas or because the year 2020 will finally come to an end. The festive court does not justify the disappearance of concerns that need to be maintained in public health, but it is in this plan that decisions must be taken, with the definition of the health safety rules that Portuguese must observe, so that possible normality in this period includes the guarantee of health and health security. Without impositions or restrictions, but with clear pedagogy and measures, so that everyone knows and all comply with the necessary rules for health safety, in a period of unmistakable family, social and also economic importance, we insist that the response to the epidemic, as before, must be found in strengthening the SNS, especially public health services. We insist on strengthening the ability to detect and interrupt transmission chains, the ability to enter, including in intensive care, the capacity of the SNS in the response that it has to continue to give to all other health problems of the Portuguese that cannot be delayed. At the same time, we must also consider the measures necessary to ensure that economic, social, cultural, civic or political activity continues, so that labour and social rights are respected, so that economic and social problems which will be so much more difficult to find in the future will not arise from the epidemic problem. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u247	It is the turn of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group. Mr João Pinho de Almeida has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u248	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are here today, once again, to pronounce ourselves on the authorization to declare the state of emergency, an absolutely exceptional instrument of restriction of freedoms. As the state of emergency is an absolutely exceptional instrument, it must be noted that we are here once again and that this renewal is almost an automatic act, that this is the application of what they sell us as a « new normal». We cannot accept, nor can we conform to this so-called "new normal". What we live in, as well as the declaration of the state of emergency, is abnormal, is exceptional and has to be fought so that, as soon as possible, we will recover what is effectively normal, that is, a life in which freedom cannot be challenged and in which health must be guaranteed so that freedom can be exercised. That is why the fact that the Government, as we have said in the analysis of the state of emergency report, has so far not inspired confidence in citizens compromises to a great extent the possible response to this situation. The government did not respond well and failed to prepare. at this time, the government clearly failed to prepare for the second outbreak, which seemed to surprise him, when it did not surprise anyone else because it was more predictable. But it also failed to prepare, when it did not propose, in Portugal, what many other governments have proposed in other countries, i.e. a law that applied to this situation, a pandemic law that clearly determined which measures and procedures to be applied in a situation like this and which would refer the state of emergency to what is specifically necessary, removing everything that may be out of the state of emergency and out of that exceptionality, also allowing the Portuguese not to be as limited in their freedoms as they are at present. But the government has also failed in response to homes; to public transport; to non-COVID patients; to parents whose children do not have a school and who do not know how to manage their family life, because the children are at home and the parents have to go to work; to the economy, leaving many sectors without any response to constraints not derived from their economic activity, but rather from the attitude and unilateral measures applied by the government. Let's see if the government doesn't fail in the vaccine against COVID, just as it failed with the vaccine against influenza. The Government has also failed, in the balance of the measures and this compromises confidence, in the lack of transparency of the measures, in the care it has not brought before them, with so many exceptions that no one already knew what the rule was, by its presentation late and late hours, without anyone really understanding its object, and also the most classic of the discrimination due to lack of balance in the differentiated treatment that it has always given the CFP in relation to the rest of Portuguese society, clearly saying that those who approve budgets of the Socialist Party can all that the generality of the Portuguese cannot. This has nothing to do with pandemics, it has to do with politicism and the way the government has managed this situation since the beginning. The government did not make the law that it should have done, did not prepare the answer that it should have prepared, was not transparent by giving knowledge of the measures and by applying them, changed its opinion, yes, not day. What was right and compulsory one day was no longer the next day; what had no effect on the prevention of the disease was, after all, essential the next day. When the government reacted, it reacted late and always expressed, yes, concerns about popularity and political sustainability. For the government, the popularity and governance that I wanted to maintain have become more and more important. Therefore, in order to decide at the moment whether or not we can make a new state of emergency possible and whether or not we vote in favour of it, there are two essential issues. First question: was there any alternative to this permanent remedy to the state of emergency? from our point of view, there was clearly whether the government had legislated and clarified rules. If the government, over the time it had, had come to Parliament to validate the solutions it wanted to implement, we should not always be resorting to the state of emergency. Secondly, since the Government has not done what it should do, is it possible to respond without resorting to the state of emergency? Responsiblely, we must say that we cannot guarantee that this response can be given, since it is incompetence of the government. Therefore, from our point of view, the Government has not done what it should, the Government is not a creditor of our trust and therefore we cannot pass a blank check on this new request for state of emergency declaration. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u249	For an intervention, Mr André Silva, of the NAP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u250	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : Today, no one doubt that, although we have taken COVID-19 as a "new standard" in our lives, the country continues to live a health emergency, which requires balanced, weighted, proportionate measures with a focus on effectiveness. It is estimated that 1 million citizens have already been in contact with the virus. Although, apparently, the peak of the second wave was reached in November, we arrived in December, the month of family life par excellence, with a scenario in which, at a table meal with five people, the probability of contagion is 20 % and 45 % if it is 10 people. In view of the risks of December, we must take measures to safeguard the National Health Service, which, particularly at the level of intensive care, is under high pressure due to the peak of the second wave, but above all, we must seek to safeguard those closest to us. We cannot make the mistakes that we have seen in the Czech Republic and in the Netherlands, which have taken effective measures of confinement and have greatly reduced the number of infected people but which, by lifting the restrictive measures too quickly, have laid down all efforts made, leading to a new and significant increase in the number of infections. The NAP understands the need for mobility and contact restrictions, which are fundamental to the increase in infection, but also understands that compulsory collection in terms of which it has been imposed, even if it is contributing to the containment of the virus, has, however, led to the asphyxiation of the services and restoration sectors, which, if they were ill, have become worse. We therefore appeal to the Government here to be concerned about the health emergency, but to adopt, in addition, rational and balanced measures that prevent the social and economic emergency from resulting in an acute socio-economic crisis. What is required is clear: the adoption of measures that contribute to effective containment and reduction of contacts, with schedules that allow the restoration and services sector to function, with safety rules, in conjunction with a direct support mechanism, the lost fund and in the form of a single provision, allowing these sectors to respond to their treasury needs. The NAP proposed the creation of this support with a value of 50 % of the verified average revenue loss compared with the 2019 register, but this proposal was dropped last week with the votes against the PS and the abstention of the PSD and the Liberal Initiative. However, we call on the Government to welcome this measure in a sensible way. And we ask for sensitivity to the entrepreneurs who, throughout the country, are despairing every day. on this occasion, we must point out that if the last statement of the state of emergency had clear negative effects on the economy, as regards compulsory collection, the truth is that in other cases we have seen that there are provisions that have not come out of the paper, such as telework, which is mandatory in the law, but that in practice is not being complied with in the lives of people and businesses. What will the Government do to ensure the effectiveness of these provisions? What do you expect to ensure an Act (Working Conditions Authority) with capacity for action? This state of emergency arises, for the first time, under the spectrum of hope of a vaccine that will arrive soon. And in this context, we cannot fail to alert the Government to three concerns. The first concern is the need to start preparing an effective system for monitoring the effects of the vaccine on all persons to whom it is being administered, since it is known that, as the experts defend, we are far from knowing everything about this process, namely duration of protection and side effects in the short and medium term. The second concern we leave to the Government is the fact that, in conjunction with non-governmental organizations and social economy organisations, we can ensure access to the vaccine and the follow-up of the socially most vulnerable populations. The third concern is the urgency of the Government to accept the measures recommended by Interpol and Europol and not to ignore the risks of corruption and crime associated with the vaccine. In the coming weeks, it is priority to avoid infiltration of criminal international networks into vaccine and drug distribution circuits, combat vaccine forgery, prevent the purchase and sale of vaccines on the Internet, sensitize citizens not to resort to parallel vaccine acquisition circuits and combat, without complacency, the potential bottlenecks of distributed vaccines door to door.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u251	A PAN supports Ana Gomes!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u252	In the weeks prior to the arrival of the vaccine, action and prevention are required, so that we do not see the political power again fail or arrive late, as it arrived at the second wave. in this state of emergency, the government and the President of the Republic preferred the comfort zone of the central block to a logic of national unity and broad consensus and opted for an emergency state without adherence to reality and to the effective needs of companies, people and the country. disproportionately, they have opted for a state of health emergency which does not provide clear guarantees that prevent them from walking in broad steps towards an economic and social catastrophe. For this reason, and in view of the lack of balance and proportionality of the proposed measures, the Abster-CL PAN will vote on the state of emergency declaration.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u253	Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Greens has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u254	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Assembly of the Republic is called again today to decide on the extension of the state of emergency, which, being an integral institute of our constitutional framework, does not, however, cease to be seen, up to the point of view of the Basic Law of the Country, as a solution of end of line, i.e. only possible to be used when all other legal and constitutional paths fail in the responses that are intended with the use of this extreme mechanism. And once again, this House is called upon to decide whether or not to renew the state of emergency, which, as two weeks ago, intends to extend the extraordinary legal framework to allow the government to take extraordinary measures to combat the pandemic caused by COVID-19. In view of these findings, it is important to ascertain whether the extension of the state of emergency is even necessary and essential for combating the pandemic, or whether, on the contrary, our legal system has legal mechanisms to enable such a fight, without the need to resort to a state of exception. This is, for us, the central issue. As we have considered two weeks ago, the measures that are in fact required to stop the pandemic continue to dispense with the use of this extreme mechanism and so the Greens will vote against the renewal of the state of emergency. And we vote against it because, being true that it is still early to realize the possible contributions in combating the pandemic of the declaration of the current state of emergency and its renewal, it is also true that, after all this time, we continue without identifying any tangible contribution, in this combat, due to the declaration of the state of emergency of spring and its renewals. In fact, a return to spring revives our memory and reminds us that the most important measures in this fight were taken outside the state of emergency, even before it was decreed, as was the case with the closure of schools and the voluntary confinement of Portuguese. We are going to vote against it because we believe that the measures that are required to take do away with the use of a mechanism as extreme as the state of emergency. We know that the health situation we live in requires the strengthening of urgent measures and, in view of the seriousness of the situation, it is imperative to continue and strengthen the containment measures. But once again, we affirm that it is important not to confuse the containment measures with the state of emergency, because they are different realities that cannot, nor should, be confused. Therefore, containment measures, yes, reinforcement of measures, yes, but state of emergency, no. We shall vote against it because it is not the state of emergency that allows the government to give the necessary answers. In order to ensure that patient beds are not lacking and to provide the SNS with more means, more capacity in health centres and hospitals, or to strengthen their response capacity, there is no need for emergency state. In order to strengthen the protection of working conditions at work, no state of emergency is required. In order to expedite the competitive processes exceptionally, both in the acquisition of technical means and in the hiring of health professionals, no state of emergency is required. In order to preserve the hospital response capacity at COVID-19, no state of emergency is required either. In order to create the conditions so that people can comply with the rules, for example in public transport — where, even if they wish, people cannot objectively comply with the rules of social distance — there is no need for a state of emergency. If we want to favour the present school, we need to guarantee the conditions for students to be able to comply with the rules. But for that, no state of emergency is necessary. Finally, the Government does not need the state of emergency to explain very well the measures being taken, because if people do not understand the reasons for the measures imposed on them, they naturally tend to devalue them. As useful as the measures are, people still do not understand, for example, because at the end of the week they have to go all together to the shopping in the morning and in the afternoon they have to stay at home. Just see the rows and agglomerations of people who joined the door of the large commercial surfaces in the mornings of the last weekend. Of course, people ask if it would not be more useful and effective if they would go to shopping in the morning and in the afternoon, rather than go to the morning. But the government did not explain the measure and what we perceive, about the closure of commercial establishments at 13 hours, is that this measure only helped to make life even more difficult for people and to push many small entrepreneurs, especially those of restaurants, hotels and tourism, for the definitive closure of their establishments, and they were forced to fire workers. The restoration sector — which for some may be a circus — is, for us, an important sector of our economy, which, like other sectors, is in a truly suffocating situation and is crying out for support that is more than justified. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u255	You have the floor, Mr Ventura, for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u256	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister and Mr. Members: This emergency state is a disaster — a communication disaster, in which we do not know what prohibitions are and what they are recommendations, or some think they are prohibitions and others think they are recommendations. This is the most disastrous state of emergency with regard to the classification of the level of municipalities and seems to be the largest Tetris game that the government has ever decided to apply, since terminology is between the « very complex », the « little complex », the « perhaps complex » and the « less complex tomorrow ». It is a disaster at all levels, with the face of Antonio Costa, Prime Minister of Portugal! It is also a communication disaster: with establishments to close at one afternoon and with supermarkets full all morning, in a level of concentration of people unthinkable for the protection of public health; with a vaccination plan that should already be done and that was presented lastly to the European Union, showing the lack of respect that exists in such a struggle for public health; and with support sites, such as the support program Support.pt, below for more than 24 hours, after it was said that it was the great tool to support restoration. But the PS found today a whole new argument: attacking the Arrival with the Turkish couple who invented the vaccine. It would be the same as saying that gypsies destroyed a coffee in Odivelas during the state of emergency. And, therefore, the arrival is right to say that in some neighborhoods around Lisbon the rate of non-compliance is higher. He's right. There is knowledge and decorum in what is said to the Portuguese. We said we wouldn't leave anyone behind, but we left.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u257	Oh, they're gone, they're gone!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u258	We left the elderly, in the homes, behind, with infection rates that shamed most of the countries of Europe; we left the restoration and trade behind, with support that would not be considered worthy in the countries of South America; we left the culture, the shows and the events behind, with a government that will be marked by destroying, once and for all, some of the sectors of Portuguese activity. Mr President, Prime Minister, 40 years ago Francisco Sá Carneiro disappeared. I believe that Mr. Prime Minister should heed the words that echo in the memory of the people and that they will not remain while your government is here: the system is not made for and for, for and for, for and for people, they are the people who must be there to be served by the system. This was said by Francisco Sá Carneiro!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u259	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u260	I hope, Prime Minister, that you will never forget that the state of emergency, your government, your measures and your laws are not to serve you, or your government, to serve people.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u261	Mr. Deputy, you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u262	Today, we should all pay tribute to Francisco Sá Carneiro!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u263	The PSD sticks the hat up to the heel!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u264	Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u265	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There may be those who think that everything is in the same way, when more than a fortnight passes, when there is more a renewal of the state of emergency, when the same presidential decree comes, when there is the same disorientation in the government, when there is the same lack of scientific or empirical basis for the measures taken. But it's not all the same. in this fortnight, more thousands of Portuguese were infected, many others lost their jobs and all — everyone! — they have seen their freedoms surrounded. However, the Government does not pay attention to the data already available on the essential balance between combating the pandemic and social and economic recovery. There is evidence that measures such as the limit to public transport or telework are on the right side of this balance, while measures restricting trade, alternate work, limitation on movement between municipalities or collection at one afternoon at the end of the week cause disproportionate damage and are on the wrong side of that balance. With all this, we have ended up not talking about what should be the priority at this time, the social and economic recovery of Portugal. in this recovery, the first and essential step will be vaccination, whose plan we know yesterday. In addition to a series of questions about logistics, the plan reveals, above all, a worrying lack of urgency, by limiting vaccination sites to SNS, without providing for time extension and without including pharmacy. This lack of urgency has costs. It has costs in suffering and in human lives and costs for the economy, about EUR 2000 million per month. In view of these values, not investing in an ambitious vaccination plan is a bad decision. Just think of what will happen to tourism if, at high time, Portugal is late in vaccination against its European competitors. But economic recovery, that is to say, of people's lives, is also not to fail in the instruments that allow people and businesses to start recovery, and these fail too often. For the most affected sectors, the Programmes Support.pt and Support Restoration require : organised accounting, leaving out half of the companies, which legally choose the simplified regime; having the regularized tax situation, which is like those who say, before paying, the State has first to receive; and being in municipalities where there was confinement, as if many businesses, especially those linked to tourism, did not exactly depend on visitors outside their municipality. Even the basic measures for all other economic sectors are already failing. We have the Development Bank that does not start and the European funds for which the PS has only now agreed, to change governance (with more than one Simplex) and the monitoring (with a transparency portal, which we proposed) of the application of European funds.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u266	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u267	I shall conclude, Mr President. All these discussions around the state of emergency prevent us from discussing the essential while restricting our freedoms. And it's exactly by talking about freedoms that I want to remember, here, what Francisco Sá Carneiro, who disappeared 40 years ago, wrote in 1973, and quote (listen because they can learn something!) « Free speaking in a free country leaves people simply indifferent ». It is against this indifference that the Liberal Initiative will continue to fight.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u268	Mr Joacine Katar Moreira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u269	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The effectiveness of measures against COVID-19 will also be assessed by how we will remain after the renewal of so many states of emergency, the limitation of rights and freedoms. It is urgent that the National Health Service should be strengthened today and that mental health bet should be put on. It is also necessary to support the essential workers and to fight together in order to prevent the overcrowding of the pandemics of inequality and poverty. At the same time, we need to unite to fight a wave, a wave that, by joining a wing, is rising on a day with more emphasis: the wave of populism, the wave of attacks on democracy and the rule of law. This is a wave that we have to fight against in order to prevent it from becoming aggressive, because it is necessary to remember that the fight against the pandemic is not objective, necessity and problem to be solved solely by the Executive. It is up to us, individually and politically, to unite our efforts in this direction. I cannot finish without welcoming the Prime Minister, the Minister of Health, the Director-General of Health and all those who have made a more or less effective effort, but a real effort, to save the lives of thousands of individuals and, at the same time, to relate and have to deal with political opportunism, negationism and media manipulation of individuals who would not do better. And they would not do better because these are the individuals who want to dismantle the National Health Service and who want to privatize everything that works in this country. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u270	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u271	in an environment in which we should be united, we are not, because there are individuals, particularly parties, who are in enormous anxiety, to see if they choose, to see whether they are razed, to see whether they are aggravating themselves, reducing democracy and opportunities. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u272	Hit your palms, hit your palms!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u273	For an intervention, you have the floor of Mrs.Cristina Rodrigues.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u274	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Finally, the results of the collective effort that we have all made begin to be visible. The studies show that we have already reached the peak, that the number of cases is decreasing and that the transmission rate has decreased. So it's important not to lower your arms. But, apart from the health crisis, we must not forget any other urgency that remains to be resolved. According to data from the ILO (International Labour Organisation ), Portugal was the European country which experienced greater losses in the mass of wages due to the crisis caused by the pandemic, mainly penalizing women. Women's wages fell by 16 %, the highest among the 28 countries analyzed. Moreover, the instability caused by COVID-19 has a particular impact on women who, in fear of exposing their children to the virus, fear of unemployment or economic crisis, are particularly vulnerable to situations of domestic violence. Inequality between women and men continues to be a reality that needs to be fought and for which women's associations have a decisive role, so it is also urgent to support them. Although telework is a fundamental measure to combat the spread of the pandemic, the fact is that the Ministry of Labour conducted an investigation of 10,300 companies and concluded that two thirds did not implement it. I therefore insist that it is essential to take measures that guarantee its implementation and that the ACT has the conditions to monitor this situation, without compromising its normal activity. We call again attention to sectors that are particularly affected by this crisis, including culture, restoration and even bars and discos. With the increase in unemployment, we cannot support these companies, so I call on the Government to think in these sectors, to listen to their concerns and to strengthen support, because the imposition of health measures, which we agree to be fundamental, must find a balance with the need to ensure business sustainability and consequently the maintenance of jobs. May we maintain this path of responsibility, with a view to the end of the pandemic, not forgetting those who are most needed at this time, nor those who work every day in the front line so that the rest can live their lives with the normality possible.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u275	To close the debate, Mr President-in-Office of the Council.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u276	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we are discussing the request for renewal of a third emergency period since, at the beginning of November, we have resumed the adoption of these exceptional measures of character that we have been adopting for the first time in our democratic constitutional framework throughout 2020. We do so in the context of what is the biggest global crisis, affecting the health, economic and social dimensions, in a true test to the affirmation of our collective values. I would say that we cannot trivialize the adoption of exceptional measures, but we must realize here today that we are at a decisive moment, when we have to mobilize all our effort, as in that most difficult phase of a marathon, in which the hope of reaching the goal begins to be within our reach, but in which difficulties can sometimes lead to our weakness in this collective effort. Today, what we are proving that we are on the right track. We are in what is a global challenge. Since I was here in early November, in the first debate on the declaration of an emergency state, more 15 million people have been infected and more than half a million deaths have occurred worldwide. In our country too, in November, we had a particularly difficult picture, marked by a high incidence of cases, a high level of hospitalization and use of intensive care beds and, worse than everything, a significant level of deaths. But I would say that the national agreement and cohesion we have seen, the cohesion of the sovereignty bodies, the President of the Republic, the Assembly of the Republic — here today, expressed by the feasibility, once again, of more than 90 % of the Members. Members of this state of emergency decree—and the Government, with the role of uniting the Portuguese around stable, clear and determined measures, have had the understanding and support of the Portuguese. First of all, Portuguese support in the exemplary form of measures, which have been determined in accordance with the President of the Republic's decrees, has been welcomed and has allowed a full intervention marked by a pedagogical dimension and awareness-raising by the security forces. And also a Portuguese adherence, which has been reflected in all opinion studies, a very high and very significant adherence to the measures that have been adopted. But fundamental are the results that we started to record. We reached, during the first emergency period, the highest number of active cases, since the pandemic reached Portugal: 88 000 active cases, on 15 November. Since then, we have been reducing this number of cases to about 73,000, which are being recorded today. And the implementation of this set of measures, proportionate, appropriate and necessary — marked by respect for fundamental rights, safeguard the right to work and, ensuring hope for new generations, safeguard the functioning of the education system, and marked by safeguarding the minimum impact of economic activities — has produced effects. We are now at a time when we cannot give up, until the extremely high levels of incidence have fallen in recent weeks. However, this does not allow us to stop following the course, with measures which, contrary to what some have said here, are clear, despite difficulties, and hence solidarity with workers and companies, with measures such as prolongation of layoffs and unemployment subsidies, and with exceptional measures to support the most directly affected sectors. We do not tolerate that it confuses restoration with arts and show, confuses, finally, all the areas of work that are legitimately worthy of our respect and support. That is why it is so decisive at this stage we make every effort to defend the National Health Service, mobilizing more professionals and concentrating the means to defend the health of Portuguese. But also mobilising about 1000 elements of the Armed Forces, security forces and civil protection, as well as officials from municipal chambers, teachers and other areas of the Public Administration to expedite screening processes. Just as by creating a national network of rear-end support structures (ERS), what has been done throughout the country and, above all, in the most affected areas, such as in the northern region and, in particular, in the port district, where they are in operation, allowing support to those who do not need hospital admissions need care. Finally, with the launch, in a framework of equality, in a framework of gratuitousness, in a framework of universality, of a broad vaccination programme that creates the path to hope from the beginning of next year, as soon as the European Medicines Agency takes the necessary decisions, making possible the example of a great European effort, an effort in which only by the fact that we are in the European Union, in the European Union of values, democracy and in an area of freedom, security and justice, allows us all to have the vaccine at the same time, in a framework of repetition, equality and solidarity. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is why, at the moment, nothing more absurd would be to do what the CDS defended, that is, instead of being united in this fight, we are involved in a legal-constitutional debate on the review of the law of the state of site and the state of emergency. It has never been a legal framework that has prevented us for decades here, such as the use of mechanisms of the Civil Protection Bases Act or the Public Health Surveillance Act, from mobilizing the efforts of the Portuguese. This renewal is therefore important and we must do so with stability and predictability. It is true that the declaration of the state of emergency, in accordance with the law of the state of emergency, will take place only within the next 15 days, but the decree of the President of the Republic already establishes a commitment of stability which extends until 7 January, including the period of Christmas and the New Year. It is therefore possible for the Government to take the appropriate and balanced measures that signal the continuation of this collective effort, this effort to mobilize the Portuguese that is understood and that it is nowadays showing its results with measures that are the least restrictive of all European countries that are close to us — measures that are the least affecting the right to education and that are more proportionate in safeguarding the defence of economic activities, but that respond to what is decisive. Without limiting the contagions, there will be no limitation on the growth of the disease, without limiting the contacts it will not be possible to safeguard the mobilization of efforts of the National Health Service. Therefore, in the coming weeks, it is so important that we create conditions not only to live Christmas as a family, to live Christmas with caution and defense of collective health, but also so that the new year, which began with the hope of the vaccine, will allow these results to be consolidated. May the new year allow us to open a path to fully regain the path to normality, to defend health and affirm freedom, in a framework where we say whenever this pandemic is made in cohesion, in solidarity, without jeopardizing democracy, without jeopardizing cohesion among the Portuguese. Here too no one will stay behind! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u277	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, as planned on the agenda, and as we have a quorum of deliberations, we shall proceed to the vote on the renewal of the authorisation requested by the President of the Republic for the declaration of the state of emergency. [[Submitted to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PSD and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues, votes against the PCP, the ENP, the CH and the IL and abstentions from BE, the CDS-PP, the PAN and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] The renewal of the state of emergency was approved, and thus it will follow its path. We turn to the sixth item on our agenda, which consists of the preparatory debate of the next European Council, under Article 4(1) ( a ). the Law of Monitoring, Appreciation and Pronunciation by the Assembly of the Republic in the framework of the European Union Construction Process. Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Antonio Costa, has the floor, which I take advantage of to greet and greet, since I have not done so recently.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u278	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The first issue the next week's European Council will have to deal with the COVID situation point. The first element concerns the six contracts for the purchase of vaccines already signed by the European Commission and the verification that all Member States are presenting their national vaccination plans, as we ourselves are doing - ensuring that there is a fair, balanced and simultaneous distribution of vaccines in all Member States. The second important element in the coordination of the anti-COVID struggle has to do with the rapid testing strategy. Portugal already has its national test strategy and we believe that it is essential to establish common criteria that allow and facilitate mutual knowledge. This is an essential condition for us to be able to have all the open borders and not have any further blocking situations regarding freedom of movement between the different Member States. The second key issue of the European Council concerns climate change. The objective is that there is a common commitment to reducing emissions by 55 % by 2030, compared with 1990 levels. Portugal, which was the first country in the world to achieve the goal of carbon neutrality in 2050, is well aware that the greatest effort has to be made is that of the next decade, and we clearly support the Commission's proposal that there should be a commitment from all Member States to 55 % reduction by 2030. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The third issue which will be taken into account at the European Council has to do with security and external relations issues. In the area of security, the debate on terrorism, radicalism and violent extremism, particularly in the virtual space, will be on the table. Portugal, in addition to expressing its solidarity with the Member States which have been the target of terrorist attacks such as Austria, Germany or France, also supports the development of counter-terrorism measures, in particular those proposed by the Commission and which will be the subject of strong momentum during the next Portuguese presidency. On the other hand, and with regard to external relations, there are several topics under consideration: first, the situation in the Eastern Mediterranean. Portugal, once again, in addition to expressing solidarity with Cyprus and Greece, believes that it is necessary for the European Union to clarify once and for all its relationship with Turkey, not continuing to feed misunderstandings based on false expectations, but on the contrary we can have a clear relationship. Turkey is our ally in NATO ( North Atlantic Treaty Organization ), neighbouring Turkey is fundamental within the framework of the European Union, we must have clear, transparent relations with Turkey, and this must be clarified once and for all. In terms of neighbourhood, and it will be another issue of international relations, the debate on relations with the southern neighbourhood will be developed. Portugal supports, in particular, the renewal of this relationship, but we believe that it cannot replace that which is the strategic partnership between Europe and the whole of the African continent, which should not, in any case, be harmed. As far as external relations are concerned, there is a new opportunity for the development of transatlantic relations, from the outset, marked by the joint work that can be done in the fight against climate change, especially since the Biden Administration has announced that on the first day of its new administration, it will return to the Paris Agreement. It is a partnership that is re-established and that is certainly a good wish for the future of humanity. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Finally, the Council of 11 will be marked by an enlarged euro area summit which will focus particularly on the issues of banking union and the union of capital markets. Above all, I would like to stress the importance of the European Council to endorse the historic agreement reached at the last meeting of the Eurogroup on the reform of the European Stability Mechanism and the early introduction of the Single Resolution Fund support mechanism, which will enter into force in 2022. Portugal has made great efforts as a Member State, and also as President of the Eurogroup, to ensure that these results are achieved, as an essential part of complementing economic and monetary union and taking a concrete step towards deepening banking union and strengthening market confidence in the European financial system. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In summary, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, these are the subjects on the agenda of the next European Council and which I have briefly stated here, thus giving room to answer the questions which will certainly not fail to put.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u279	For the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Capoulas Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u280	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The next week's European Council takes place at the culmination of a year in which events have taken place that well illustrate what Europe has to do better and worse. on the negative side, it would highlight the painful negotiation process of Brexit and the succession of expertise involved in this controversial divorce and the political significance of the fact that, for the first time since its foundation, the European Union has been watching the exit of one of its members, even above the most relevant, despite the long-awaited attitude of the United Kingdom towards the European project. It should be noted that the negotiating process of exit has proved to the point that, within just 27 days of its consumption, we do not know whether we are going to see a regulated exit or a chaotic exit. Less positive is also the Commission's initial reaction to the pandemic, which is hesitant and uncoordinated. But the most negative fact of all, which will mark the year 2020, is certainly the position of two Member States of the Union, taken in COREPER ( Committee of Permanent Representatives ) of 16 November, and confirmed on the following day in the General Affairs Council, from veto to the final version, improved, negotiated by the European Parliament, that the work carried out by the Portuguese Euro MPs Margarida Marques and José Manuel Fernandes on the multiannual financial framework and recovery plan to respond to the consequences of the crisis resulting from the COVID-19. On the other hand, fortunately, 2020 will also be marked by some extraordinarily positive fact at the European level, which highlights, in addition to the pleasant surprise of the Commission's new leadership, the historic agreement of July on the financial instruments referred to, not only by the high amounts involved, but above all by the financial engineering found and the underlying principles which, in practice, enshrine what was so far unthinkable, even for the most optimistic Europeanists, the mutualisation of debt, to which the Portuguese Government has made a significant contribution. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u281	Equally commendable are the Commission's new policy guidelines, which fit well into the priorities of the Portuguese presidency of the Council next semester ; resilience and response to the crisis, strengthening the European social model, integrating the Ecological Pact into all policies of the Union, strengthening digital sovereignty, affirming Europe at the global level with a particular focus on the EU / Africa, EU / Asia, India and China, and restoring the transatlantic relationship. Still worthy of positive registration are the steps taken in the right direction for a European health policy, the most immediate and visible aspect of which is the European vaccination plan, faithful to the principles of equity and solidarity that constitute the DNA (deoxyribonucleic acid) of the European project which, in our case, as Portuguese, we have endeavoured to build in the last 34 years. of the European Council's known agenda, and that the Prime Minister has just put forward a point to the point, there is no point which will certainly, on its own side, take on an inconsequential importance. This is the question of exceeding the Hungarian and Polish veto to the financial framework and recovery plan, in fact, decisions already taken favourably by these Member States last July. We are all aware of the complex decision-making process in the European institutions and often forget how admirable the institutional architecture of the European Union is, which has allowed for 70 years to make decisions mostly by consensus, in a geopolitical space as heterogeneous as what goes from the Arctic to the Mediterranean and from the Atlantic to the Black Sea and where there are co-existences of political realities and governmental solutions of the left, right, and coalitions of all colors, and a Commission, a Council and a Parliament that are their reflections. Decisions are therefore always slow, demanding patience and much imagination, so that, in the end, everyone can see them reflected. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group is therefore in favour of a position in Portugal, in the European Council, aggregator, not radical, contrary to what has been expressed in recent days by some European leaders, as we were still able yesterday to witness at the meeting at which the President of the Assembly of the Republic, the President of the European Parliament and the leaders of the European and national parliamentary groups took part. I would therefore like the Prime Minister to clarify this House, as far as possible, on the position he is going to take on this subject, most probably outside the European Council, so that this impasse is so worrying and negative to Portugal and Europe can be quickly overcome and initiated the necessary recovery of our economy, which is hard hit by the pandemic, and so that we can see our collective life also normalized. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u282	Mrs. Members, it is the turn of the PSD Parliamentary Group with two speeches. First of all, Mr Paul Moniz has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u283	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government: We will indeed have the most important European Council of all our lives. In the previous debate, we saw that the pandemic, in addition to the health aspect, is a very serious problem from an economic point of view and that needs to be resolved. Following the July Council, where tools, tools and mechanisms were found for addressing families, economics and businesses, and the « bazouca» that Mr. Prime Minister has spoken from July to now, by the end of the year, in December, in fact, the order of « fire to play » has not yet come. As you know, this is absolutely dramatic because this time no longer has time to wait for decisions that are from Europe, and that are going to meet the pillar discussed by the President of the European Commission, the sense of European citizenship is exacerbated by the effectiveness that citizens and businesses feel in solving their problems. I cannot fail to mention, as we have done many times, that the country will receive about EUR 57 billion over the next 10 years and there is a strategic policy option to be taken. In our understanding, we reinforce that these funds, mostly, should be addressed to businesses, families, but primarily to those who have the ability to create wealth. Only then can Portugal emerge from the vicious circle of being permanent and strongly dependent on European funds and, when these do not exist or are not available, resort to indebtedness. We must break this vicious circle that led us, in the first 20 years of this century, to anemic growth and to a situation of the weakest to face the crisis that we now have. Yesterday, the OECD ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ) said periodically that Portugal will be the most affected country, from an economic point of view, due to this crisis. Mr Prime Minister, I have heard you say that you only have Plan A. I can understand that, of course, within the interests of negotiation, this is a form of pressure that is being used, but the country cannot have a government that has only Plan A. The country wants a government that is hope, that is confident and that, if Plan A is to fail, Plan B is to have Plan C and, if it fails Plan C, it will have Plan D. The Portuguese country and people have to review in its Government the last link of hope and confidence in the future. Let me remind you, too, today in particular, because it is a special day, words of Sá Carneiro. He said here, in this Chamber, on 3 January 1980, in the possession of the VI Constitutional Government, and I quote : « Force forge in the struggle, firmness in the fight for principles, courage in the face of the crisis ». Mr Prime Minister, we need, more than ever, this courage, this confidence and hope. I cannot but speak on a subject which will be within the framework of the next Council meeting and which, including, you mentioned in your speech: the new agenda for transatlantic relations European Union / United States of America. In fact, the arrival of President Biden's government has opened up the opportunity to relaunch these conversations, to get closer to the United States, our important strategic partner. President Charles Michel made the next meeting of the European Council an intention to promote two summits, at the highest level, the European Union/United States of America, one in digital format and the other in face format. It is clear that the country with an Atlantic vocation and a presence that no one else has in the European context is Portugal, and this presence, this Atlantic dimension, historical, also comes from the geostrategic and geopolitical positioning of the Azores. The question I ask you, Prime Minister, has to do with the following: who will define the terms and the location of the physical summit will be the government which will have the responsibility to lead the European Union's destinations in the first half of 2021, i.e. Portugal. Will you be in unique conditions to promote the possibility of this conference taking place on the Lajes, on the Third Island, being that stage of this transatlantic dimension that we want to recover and that is very important for the country and for Europe? Oh, my God! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u284	Mr Luís Leite Ramos is still a member of the PSD, which is very little for an intervention, so you have the floor, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u285	Mr President, I would like to make an appeal to the Bureau because initially the time attached to the electronic panel was 9 minutes and, in the meantime, we decided to distribute it in function...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u286	Mr President, I will interrupt you now, just for a matter of clarification. It is that the panel was wrong and what is on the agenda page that has been distributed to parliamentary groups is very clear and that is what counts. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u287	I don't think that this interpretation is correct, because what was worth the previous interventions was what was affixed...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u288	I advise you not to waste too much time, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u289	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government : The next European Council comes back to the issue of climate change to try to agree on a new emission reduction target in the European Union in 2030. This agreement will allow the European Union to make an updated national contribution to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change by the end of 2030. Last October the European Council had already discussed a Commission communication on the same subject and, as Mr Prime Minister said, it had set a reduction in emissions to at least 55 % by 2030. Now, Mr Prime Minister has insisted, and in our view, the pandemic cannot be a justification for reducing and slowing down the fight against climate urgency. We fully agree and understand that, on the contrary, it is really a justification for us to be able to speed up this fight. But what is true is that the results and what we hear do not always work with the declarations of intentions and the announcements that have been made. For example, the European Climate Action Network, a coalition of NGOs (non-governmental organisations) for energy and climate, considered that the work being done in several countries, including Portugal, has huge additional concerns and problems, in particular in terms of capacity to achieve the long-term objectives of the Paris Agreement, and criticized national energy and climate plans for their inadequacies. And inadequacies are, for example, in matters such as energy efficiency, which the PSD has denounced and whose limitations it has underlined, in matters such as waste or very important matters such as monitoring and transparency of such monitoring. However, the problem of the lack of instruments and mechanisms to monitor, to follow what has been announced in the same plans, seems to us to be an essential problem. And, of course, these failures cause a lot of doubts about the country's ability to achieve its objectives. My question, Prime Minister, has exactly to do with that. How do the Prime Minister and the Government understand how we can ensure that these same goals are met and, in any case, re-enable the European Union and the country in this area? It is that we are full of good intentions and the results show that these good intentions will not help in that fight that is necessary. Anyway, Mr. Prime Minister,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u290	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President. The intervention was certainly prepared on the basis of the agenda rather than the electronic framework.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u291	... what we have in practice are the intentions of the Government and the words of the Prime Minister, but this, of course, does not leave us to rest. We have no good reason to rest solely with the intentions of the Government and the words of the Prime Minister. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u292	Mr Fabíola Cardoso has the floor for an intervention on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u293	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, Mrs. and Members of Parliament and other participants in this parliamentary work: Regardless of the official agenda, this European Council will be defined by how the 27 will be able to respond, or not, to the pandemic emergency, by approving the recovery fund, ensuring the next multiannual financial framework and thus the future of the European Union itself. A set of impasses has been created by the veto of Poland and Hungary, caused by the association of the State mechanism of the right to access to European funds. Regardless of the means used to overcome the impasse, the European Union has its own mechanisms, which are enshrined in the Treaty, in particular Article 7 thereof. the, which must be met, ensuring respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law, human rights, including those of persons belonging to minorities. A sanction process for Poland and Hungary is under way, although it has been blocked for too long. It is therefore strange what we are watching. Mr. Prime Minister, is this a way of putting in the drawer the sanction process that has been raised in Poland and Hungary? What is the Portuguese Government's view on this matter? It shall desist the Union from the penalties provided for in Article 7. , for a new form of economic penalty? Compliance with the rule of law has no price, it must be a condition of sine qua no of belonging to the European Union and not of exchange money for obtaining funds. In the face of the foreseeable impasse of the European Council, a 25 enhanced cooperation plan has been put forward as possible to advance with the Next Generation Recovery Fund. What is the Portuguese Government's position on this possibility? But there are other questions I wanted to ask you. The European Socialists agreed to include a sanctioning and punitive mechanism associated with the recovery fund. Does the Prime Minister consider it acceptable to introduce rules such as those in the recovery fund regulation of poor memory for our country, which remind us of the demands of the fulfilment of the Troika Memorandum? Is this not a challenge to democratically elected governments and an interference in the democratic choices of the peoples? Will you accept the Government, Prime Minister, a state of permanent troika? Third and last question: what is the position of the Portuguese Government on the maintenance of the support provided under the Recovery Fund to the polluting industries, which continue to base their operation on fossil fuels? The Socialists and even the Greens have abandoned this debate in the European Parliament. In order to manage its climate change policy, the European Union has hired BlackRock, one of the world's largest investors in the fossil fuel industry and in sectors associated with deforestation, which is to place the fox in the henhouse. Mr. Prime Minister, the pandemic crisis we are experiencing has not extinguished or solved the climate crisis that also threatens the present and the future of the planet. This is the right time to move forward, finally, with measures that will allow, once and for all, reduce the external dependence, food, industrial and energy of fossil energies and thus continue to a truly sustainable production and consumption paradigm. concrete actions beyond words: this is what we owe to the next generations. Don't you agree, Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u294	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u295	Mr Bruno Dias, from the CFP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u296	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Prime Minister : In addition to the important issues relating to tests and vaccines, I would like to ask the Prime Minister and the Government what is the point of the situation with regard to a broader approach — which is necessary and should not be reduced to these issues — in particular the coordination and coordination at European level of combating the pandemic. I ask, of course, whether there will be the creation of conditions for investment in public services such as the SNS in the case of Portugal and without the pressure of conditioning that we remember well and that happened with the famous specific recommendations by country and other interventions at the level of the European Union, which in recent times have tried to recommend, let us say, the budget cut in the field of health. Another policy is therefore needed in the European context that puts an end to these conditions which have cyclically emerged in relation to investment and development of public services. In other words, policy options are needed to promote and allow effective and concrete measures at this level for 2021. This is therefore the first question we would like to put, regardless of more conceptual approaches to European health unions and other related discussions. In concrete terms, it is also important to discuss and evaluate follow-up and coordination in combating the epidemic. On the other hand, there is the issue of the environment and climate change, which appears on the agenda. We have called attention to the perverse contradiction between the declared objectives of action for environmental protection and mitigation at the level of greenhouse gas emissions and the mercantilization of these environmental protection actions, in particular with the various emissions licensing trades. In practice, these trades, instead of leading to a more effective fight against these emissions, end up transforming them into marketable goods or securities where the most powerful economically end up benefiting from this logic and the ability to acquire the freedom to pollute others. This is an experience that we cannot ignore and a concern that we cannot fail to express at this stage of the debate. by looking at the agenda of the work that is defined for this meeting, it would be - if we are before another business meeting the usual ones, which in Portuguese would be "business of the custom". The fact is that there is an 'elephant in the room' which has to do with the Council's decisions on the recovery fund and the multiannual financial framework. With regard to this approach, the punitive approach within the framework of the Community funds on behalf of the rule of law, we have no good experience and history has given important lessons on the issue of the police in the world or the police in Europe. In any case, there is the complication and confusion that the government itself warned would be predictable! So in addition to reiterating the positions that have been stated at Council level, what prospects are there for the European Union to respond quickly to the mobilization of resources that are so urgent and necessary to address the problems and situations that are posed in relation to our country and other countries and peoples of Europe?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u297	Mr President, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u298	I will finish, Mr. President. On the UK exit process and at the point of the current situation, there is an approach that, not being on the agenda, would be interested in making progress on this process, until we are a few weeks away from the Portuguese Presidency and the concrete impacts, especially on our fellow citizens living in the United Kingdom.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u299	Mr João Pinho de Almeida, from the CDS-PP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u300	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Prime Minister : I would like to address three points regarding this Council and the Prime Minister's intervention at the beginning of this debate, and the first has to do with the recovery fund, the union budget and the rule of law issue. I believe that it is of all practical value, from the outset for the Government, that what is at stake and the position of the Government of Portugal is clarified. at this moment, knowing the intention of Hungary and Poland — although there has been a development in Poland, however — how and when can we expect this process to be resolved? This is because, as has already been said by other banks, the question to which Mr Prime Minister called the financial bazouca is essential for us to know when a lot of the Portuguese response is being implemented, which is also financed from European resources, to the situation we are living in. We knew that still this week we had a transfer of the SURE(Support you the mitigate Employment Risks in an Emergency) but this transfer essentially covers expenditure that is already done. Therefore, it is essential to know when and what instruments we will have for the future. Then the question of the Portuguese position on the rule of law. It was not us, it was not the Portuguese Parliament that caused some confusion about it. It would have been the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Poland, it would have been an opinion paper published in the Wall Street Journal, the clarifications of the Minister for Foreign Affairs in the Public. The important thing is to know what Portugal's position will be if it is faced with two options: whether there is no agreement or an agreement that involves a concession to the position of Hungary and Poland. If both options are these, what is the position of Portugal?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u301	And what's yours?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u302	Second point: Brexit. On January 1, the Portuguese Presidency began and the United Kingdom of the European Union emerged. Unless one month of this realization, the questions are obvious: what are the expectations that there will still be an agreement? What is the solution if there is no agreement and, for example, customs agreements within the WTO ( World Trade Organisation ) enter into force on 1 January? How are national authorities in each country prepared to deal with this? The third point concerns the reform of the Treaty on the European Stability Mechanism ( ESM ). in this reform, the EEM assumes the responsibility of backstop of the Single Resolution Fund ( FUR ). In other words, he is responsible for this obligation in the banking resolution. Does this have any consequences from the point of view of transfers to the Portuguese Resolution Fund which, in turn, then transfers to the New Bank or not? Is there any consequence of this reform in the New Bank situation or not? What structural question is the question for the future: if there is a need for a bank resolution that is part of the European system, will the resolution involve the use of funding by Portuguese taxpayers or will the European Stability Mechanism respond to that resolution?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u303	For an intervention, Mr André Silva, of the NAP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u304	Mr President, Prime Minister : As you know, the European project is about solidarity, but it cannot go over the rule of democratic law. The European Union is not satisfied when there are unprecedented attacks on LGBTI rights (Lesbics, Gays, Bisexuals, Transgender and Intersex ), when the freedom of choice of women is limited, when the borders of migrants are closed, when changes are promoted that limit the political rights of opposition parties and violently suppress peaceful demonstrations, when the freedom of the press is limited and when the independence of the judiciary and constitutional courts is called into question. Mr Prime Minister, Hungary and Poland do not meet the values of the European project. And there are no means here. Either it is on the side of the autocrats who want to undermine and destroy the European Union or it is on the side of those who want a European Union which is a union of law. Portugal cannot give in to the blackmail of Hungary and Poland. It must be firm and cannot accept that complacency with the attacks on the democratic rule of law is the exchange currency of the European bazouca. I therefore ask you what position you will adopt at the European Council meeting on this new blackmail from Hungary and Poland. Secondly, I would like to speak to you about the famous CbCR (Country-by-Country Reporting), a fundamental directive for abusive tax planning, since it will require multinationals to disclose information about where they get their profits and pay their taxes. At this stage, we are concerned that this directive has been blocked at the European Council for four years, so I ask you whether the Portuguese Presidency is planning to start the necessary efforts to unlock this impasse and thus make an unequivocal contribution to the fight against tax havens. Finally, thirdly, we have recently heard from the European Commission the reference to opening up to a tax system which, in addition to manufacturing and transport costs, also takes into account environmental costs, defending the creation of new carbon taxes for industry and aviation. The last budget by the NAP has made progress in this area with a carbon tax on air and sea travel, which is basically in line with the spirit of the European Union. In this way, what I am asking is what other industries will be involved in these taxes and whether it is expected that the Presidency will come to argue that they should cover intensive livestock, an environmentally devastating activity.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u305	Mr José Luís Ferreira of the ENP spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u306	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Prime Minister : The next European Council takes place in a framework of great instability and it is essential that it be assertive in its decisions. With regard to COVID-19, the Greens reiterate that the European Union has to provide responses free from any constraints and that they meet the needs of people and strategic sectors, allowing the development of States, the revival of the economy and the fight against asymmetries, using the potential of each Member State. Vaccine is one of the main priorities and it must be ensured that it reaches all countries and is distributed fairly and accessiblely. We're talking about human lives and the vaccine has to be seen as a real global public good. But this crisis is also an ecological crisis. Destroying nature and putting the climate in the background makes us more vulnerable and here there is no plan B or possible negotiation. It is true that greenhouse gas emission reduction targets have been set, but they cannot be just beautiful numbers on paper. The time is real action within the context of climate change, ensuring that the ecological transition leaves no one behind, because there is no ecological justice without social justice. That is why, Prime Minister, the question we are asking is whether there will be a quick and decisive action on the part of the Government, whose measures are up to this goal and which ensure that no one stays behind. In the field of security and especially in the fight against terrorism, it is urgent to reaffirm the values of tolerance, democracy and freedom, and to put an end to the interferences and aggressions against sovereign States, such as in the Middle East region, which has led to the growth of terrorist groups. The European Union's security vocation cannot undermine the freedoms and rights of citizens or the sovereignty of States, in a militaristic vision that ends up fueling hatred and racist and xenophobic forces. Finally, Mr Prime Minister, I would like to ask: how much is the Government willing to go for this change that is imposed, contributing to a policy of peace in the world and respect for international law?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u307	For an intervention, Mr André Ventura, of the Arrival, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u308	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister : today you have spoken about the European Union's relationship with its partners or at least its neighbours. I think it is time for the Portuguese to know what their definitive position on Turkey is and on their entry into the European Union. It is not enough to say, as I said many days ago, that Turkey has put forward a very ambitious proposal for the European Union. Mr. Prime Minister said he wanted to fight terrorism. Now, allowing a country with the characteristics of Turkey to enter the European Union is all the less to combat terrorism. In any case, it is appropriate for the Portuguese Prime Minister to have the opportunity before the whole country to say whether or not he agrees with Turkey's entry into the European Union, instead of playing the game that the other European leaders are doing, which is, or rather not, and let's see what this gives more forward. Have courage. Tell us! Do you agree or disagree with Turkey's entry into the European Union? We would also like to know what your position will be in the Council on Hungary and Poland. This is because, one day, you say here to your NAP allies that there is no European Union without the rule of law mechanism—we still hear Mr Silva stressing the same — on the other day he goes to Hungary and is praised by the Prime Minister and the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who says that Antonio Costa is a strong leader, who knows how to separate what has to be separated. I will not comment on the praise they make you, Mr. Prime Minister, but at least it is a little curious that someone who is attacked here by the Socialist Party, praises António Costa. So perhaps, what Mr. Prime Minister is saying in Hungary is not the same as you are saying here in Portugal. But he agreed to tell us whether or not he's going to stand in the rule of law clause or whether he's going to say this again: "I don't think things should be mixed up. One thing is disciplinary actions, another is Budget. As we need money, the rest doesn't matter anymore. Let's hurry up the money, then the rule of law's things will be resolved. In fact, these have been stopped for months, as it is known, without the application of Article 7. the, which long ago could have been applied,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u309	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u310	... but that the PS and PSD in the European Union have not yet been able to achieve. Finally, I conclude by asking just how the Government intends to deal with the many Portuguese immigrants in England and also with the English who reside in Portugal after Brexit. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u311	For an intervention, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u312	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretary of State : in this European Council — until it will be the last before the Portuguese Presidency next month — the Liberal Initiative would like to know how the PS will kick off two boots. First of all, it is good to see, this threat from Hungary and Poland to stop the European bazouca because they disagree on the conditionality of respect for the rule of law in access to funds. This is because the Prime Minister who is now saying that there is no plan B and the proportion in Hungary is the same Prime Minister of a government, who, as the public newspaper has recently shown, criticized the existence of this conditionality here a few months ago and is also the same Prime Minister who, in July, was to support Viktor Orbán in this matter. The fact is that this issue may not be decided next week and will fall into the Portuguese Presidency and therefore we would like to know how the Portuguese Government will act: if it will follow the path of forced cooperation from the other 25 countries, if it will resort to justice or if it is still expected to renegotiate the agreement. The other step to be taken is the priority taken by the Portuguese Presidency to defend the pillar of social rights, including non-discrimination and social inclusion. All right, here we go. It is no longer well when the relationship with India, a country with various human rights violations, recently known, and a country with a Hindu nationalist government, labeled by many as of extreme right and author of measures such as: the demand for the special autonomy of Kashmir and Jammu, the law of nationality, which discriminates on the basis of religious criteria, persecutions and arrests of human rights defenders and journalists. Mr. Prime Minister, I imagine you will speak to me about the importance of historical relations between Portugal and India,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u313	Don't!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u314	...but should we pretend that we do not see human rights violations in any country with which we have a common history? Because either in relation to the Narendra Modi regime in India, as in relation to the Chinese communist regime, the boot is the same: it is imperative to demand compliance with the basic rules of the rule of law and human rights which, in our view, are values that should not be sold.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u315	All right, John!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u316	For the closure of this debate, the Government, by Prime Minister Antonio Costa, has the floor. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u317	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, first of all, as regards India, has nothing to do with history, has to do with the present and the future. For Europe it is essential that the world is not a bipolar world. It is essential, in particular, that Europe has an increasingly strong presence in the Indo-Pacific region and that this relationship should be plural. And in the same way that for us it is a priority to conclude trade agreements, for example with Australia and with New Zealand, which are in progress, it is absolutely essential to value what is the second largest country in the Indo-Pacific and which is India. [[P.S.'s applause.]] On the question posed by Mr André Ventura, the answer is very simple : Turkey does not meet the Copenhagen criteria, therefore Turkey cannot enter the European Union. Mr. José Luís Ferreira stressed the importance of the vaccine, which, as I have already said, is fundamental and is a good example of how the European Union can act in a solidarity way, cooperating to face a problem that is also a global challenge. This year, or rather, next year, being the European rail year, is indeed an excellent occasion for the Portuguese Presidency to place at the heart of its priorities, to use this fundamental instrument to combat climate change. Portugal is in favour of the CbCR Directive ( Country-by-Country Reporting ), which will oblige multinationals to disclose their country-to-country incomes. As long as there are conditions in the Council for its approval, which requires a qualified majority, we will schedule it to the Council and we will move this issue forward. As regards the backstop issue, what guarantees is the ability to fund resolution funds when they do not have the ability to assume their obligations. It will enter into force in 2022 and is one of the key parts for the stabilization of the financial system, in the same way that the common deposit guarantee mechanism is absolutely essential to complete the banking union. We will be working on this second dossier, but it is important that this first dossier has already been closed. On the issue of Brexit, which is under discussion, there are two fundamental issues which still separate the European Union from the United Kingdom : one has to do with fisheries, another has to do with the conditions of access to the internal market. In any case, with regard to Portuguese citizens in the UK, the situation is guarded. at this time, more than 300 000 Portuguese citizens are registered, have until June of next year to do so and indeed the number of British citizens registered in Portugal has doubled since the beginning of the Brexit situation. On the two questions put by the honourable Members. Members of the PSD, I realize the concern of cleaning up the Lajes of bad summit memories. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It happens that the summits today are set at certain locations by the President of the Council. What is agreed between us and the President of the Council is that the summit will take place in Brussels or on the occasion of a NATO summit or taking advantage of the relocation of the future American President to the G7 meeting in London at the end of June. In any case, it will occur during the first semester of next year. Mr President, if you would like to see all the funds in the Portuguese strategy and resilience programme, you will see that about 50 % of the funds are available to businesses. As for Mr Luís Leite Ramos, I simply recommend that you read what the European Union said this week: Portugal is the closest country to achieving the 2030 climate targets.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u318	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u319	With the current measures, Portugal will exceed 23 % by the 2030 target. We have already reduced emissions by 40 %. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Finally, on the one who is the 'elephant', who is not on the agenda, but who is obviously in the Chamber, that Mr Capoulas Santos began by saying and then by a number of Mrs. Members here have stated: firstly, the European Council has established an agreement on the future multiannual financial framework, on the Recovery and Resilience Plan for the coming years at the Council in July. It is a closed agreement, which should not be reopened and which from then on provided the mechanisms necessary to ensure an effective rule of law in the control of the application of Community funds. The German Presidency has reached a consensus with the European Parliament which has created a conditionality mechanism for access to funds. This is a closed agreement that should not be reopened. Accepting to reopen any agreement is opening a door to the unknown, which we do not intend to open. No country in the European Union can accept that any other country in the Union will put the rest of the countries in a blackmail position. And, therefore, whenever one European Union country tries to put the others in blackmail, there is only one answer, which is to lose the bet and lose the blackmail. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Secondly, the agreement must even be reached in this Council, whose meeting may not end on 11 and extend until 12 or 13. But there must be an agreement in this Council and there must be an agreement in this Council for a fundamental reason, because what is at stake is not just the Recovery and Resilience Plan, which is at stake...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u320	It's the Budget!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u321	...is, of course, the Budget, which must enter into force at 0 p.m. on 1 January next year. The European Union's mechanisms are not as dramatic as the American shuntdown, but they are quite dramatic. Only for an idea will there be payments for the first pillar of the CAP, only payments for the functioning of the European institutions, but, for example, payments under the Cohesion Fund will almost disappear. Therefore, it is not only that there is no « bazouca», that even the rifle that we already have will no longer be able to shoot. And this is happening in Portugal and all other countries. Therefore, it is not worth having illusions that it is possible to postpone what simply needs to be resolved. On the fundamental question, it is very clear: the mechanisms have been created, are approved and should not be changed. You can work on them, but you cannot work on the review of the mechanisms that are established. And also on the fundamental issue, what I say here, which I say in the Council, as I said in Budapest, is very simple: the Copenhagen criteria, which serve for accession to the European Union, are the criteria which are also mirrored in the fundamental values set out in Article 2. that of the Treaty of Lisbon and which are not merely requirements for access to Community funds, are requirements for membership of the European Union. For a European Union country which does not comply with the values set out in Article 2. the issue is not to be unable to have funds, but simply to be unable to be part of the European Union. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is also the case in Article 7. the Treaty of Lisbon. And therefore Article 7. that of the Treaty of Lisbon must be applied...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u322	But it's not!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u323	... where there is any suspicion of any Member State having a breach not only of the principles of the rule of law but of any of the fundamental values contained in Article 2. o. There are two processes that are open...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u324	And stop!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u325	...and what we've said is that, if they're open, it's time for them to stop and submit to a decision. [[Protests by BE Member Fabíola Cardoso and CH Member André Ventura.]] And if someone does not schedule because he is afraid that there is no necessary majority, this political consequence must also be assumed.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u326	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u327	Now, what is not possible is this mirror game, in which you want to solve a bias problem instead of taking the problems forward. from then on we have said, from the beginning, that the values are not marketable. Therefore, the creation of strengthened cooperation does not solve the budget problem — it can solve the recovery programme problem, but it does not solve the budget problem — and, above all, it does not solve the problem of the violation of the rule of law. [[P.S.'s applause.]] What we want is not only that there is a budget, but that there is a budget in which the rule of law is met and guaranteed in all Member States.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u328	Thank you, Prime Minister. You have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u329	Finally, Mr President, I would just like to recall the following: I hope that in Portugal no one will doubt what this and any other Portuguese government stand for. This is because what led Portugal to apply for membership of the European Union was not to have a single currency which, at the time, did not even exist, was not to join the internal market, which at the time did not exist and I am sure that it was not to join a customs union that already existed. What determined the submission of Portugal's application for accession to the European Economic Community in 1977 was neither the currency nor the market nor the customs union, it was even the values, it was to consolidate our democracy and our freedom. That is why we enter the European Union and that is why we are in the European Union. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u330	We have thus reached the end of this debate on the sixth point of our work. We now have the seventh point on our agenda, composed of the timeless assessment of the Assembly's report and management account for the year 2019. This is followed by the eighth point, which consists in the general assessment of Resolution Proposals Nos 5 / XIV / 1 without time. a ( GOV ) — Approves the agreement on Croatia's participation in the European Economic Area, signed in Brussels on 11 April 2014, 8 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Protocol on the Privileges and Immunities of the Unified Patent Court, held in Brussels on 29 June 2016, 9 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Agreement on Air Transport between the Portuguese Republic and the Republic of Peru, signed in Lisbon on 26 February 2019, 12 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Framework Agreement between the Portuguese Republic and the United Nations on United Nations Meetings to be held in the Portuguese Republic, signed in New York on 11 May 2020, 14 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Convention on the Suppression of Illicit Acts Related to International Civil Aviation adopted in Beijing on 10 September 2010 and 15 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Approves the agreement between the Portuguese Republic and the Republic of Paraguay on the transfer of convicted persons signed in Lisbon on 11 May 2017. As they are points without allocation of time for discussion, we will go directly to the electoral votes, to which we have quorum. We begin with the Vote Project No 410 / XIV / 2. a ( submitted by PAR and subscribed by PSD, BE, PAN, and IL, MP not registered Joacine Katar Moreira and PS members ) — Regret of the death of Eduardo Lourenço, who was a person with whom I had a relationship for many years. I would ask Vice-President Edite Estrela to read.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u331	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « On December 1, the professor, philosopher, critic and essayist Eduardo Lourenço died at the age of 97. Born on May 23, 1923, in São Pedro do Rio Seco, Guarda, Eduardo Lourenço de Faria found at the University of Coimbra the conditions conducive to the reflection that would continue throughout his life. Graduated in Historical-Philosophical Sciences in 1946, he is Assistant to the Faculty of Letters between 1947 and 1953, the year in which he took on the role of Portuguese Culture Reader at the University of Hamburg and Heidelberg, performing identical functions at the University of Montpellier between 1956 and 1958. After a brief passage through Brazil, as a Invited Professor of Philosophy at the Federal University of Bahia, he returns to France, where he lives from 1960. Reader of Portuguese Language and Culture at the Faculty of Letters of the University of Grenoble between 1960 and 1965, at the invitation of the French Government took the position of assistant master and later master conferences at the University of Nice until 1987, retireing as professor of the Faculty of Letters in 1989. in this year, he is appointed Cultural Councillor of the Embassy of Portugal in Rome by the Portuguese Government, which occupies until 1991. Long-standing collaborator of the Calouste Gulbenkian Foundation, was its non-executive manager between 2002 and 2012. In the following year, 2013, with Annie Salomon's death in Faria, the four-year-old companion—of shared destiny—is definitely located in Lisbon. Eduardo Lourenço leaves a legacy that goes far beyond the vast published work, on a wide variety of themes — philosophical, political, cultural, religious and literary —, translating into the intervention of a whole life in the areas of education, culture and citizenship, just recognized by numerous prizes, including the Camões ( 1996 ), Pessoa ( 2011 ) and the French Academy ( 2016 ), and decorations, distinguished four times by national orders, with emphasis on the Great Cruz of the Order of Freedom in 2014, and recognized abroad, particularly in France, that he received it for three decades, as the Cavalier of the Order of Arts and Letters ( 2000 ) and the National Order of the Legion of Honor ( 2002 ). Since April 2016, he joined the Council of State by personal designation of the President of the Republic, Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa. From an unparalleled intellectual dimension, Eduardo Lourenço was no doubt the one who best reflected the national identity, often deconstructing, about what it is to be Portuguese, in Europe and in the world, about what differs from us and resembles us with other peoples. Man of immense culture, enriched by a huge thirst for knowledge, his disappearance was an irreparable loss for Portugal and for the Lusophony, of which it was one of his greatest intellectual references. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its deep regret at the death of Eduardo Lourenço, a fundamental figure of contemporary Portugal, paying tribute to the teacher and thinker and conveying to his family and friends the most deeply felt condolences. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u332	Let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let's keep a minute of silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we continue with the vote on draft vote No 374 / XIV / 2. a ( presented by the PSD ) — Congratulations on the title of World Marathon Vice Champion BTT achieved by the rider Tiago Ferreira. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The draft vote No 409 / XIV / 2 is followed. a ( submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees and subscribed by PS Members ) — Greetings for the International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women. I would ask Mrs Lina Lopes to do her best to read.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u333	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the draft vote is of the following content: "On 25 November, the International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women is signed, with the aim of denouncing and condemning the various types of violence against women in the world — whether physical, psychological or symbolic violence, committed in both domestic and public areas — sensitizing public opinion and encouraging the promotion of public policies to prevent and combat this scourge. The COVID-19 pandemic and the measures associated with its fight, including social distancing and isolation during confinement periods, as well as the combination of economic and social tensions arising there, leave women more vulnerable and more exposed to situations of domestic violence, but also children and the elderly. Fighting and overcoming the serious public health crisis we live requires concrete measures and redoubled attention to better protect victims of violence. The numbers were already alarming before the pandemic - 249 million women and girls from 15 to 49 years old were victims of violence in the last 12 months, according to UN data - and they went up in times of confinement, becoming a true 'hidden epidemic'. Studies promoted by the European Commission show that confinement, by promoting isolation and greater contact between victims and aggressors, increases the level of violence that women are subjected to, and should trigger an increase in alert and surveillance levels in order to combat domestic violence and protect victims. in this sense, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary, welcomes the International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women and reaffirms its continuing commitment and commitment to prevention and combat with a view to eliminating this serious violation of human rights. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u334	Let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 653 / XIV / 2. a (BE) — The appreciation of the teaching career. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the CDS-PP were rejected in favour of BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD, CH and IL abstentions.]] We continue with the vote on draft resolution No 660 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Valuation of teachers and educators and improvement of their working conditions. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from CH and IL.]] We proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 716 / XIV / 2. a (PV) — Allocation of rights due to teachers. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstention of CH.]] We proceed with the general vote on the Bill No 63 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Exceptional suspension of periods associated with the survival and expiry of the collective working convention. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PAN and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the IL and abstentions from the PCP, the ENP and the CH.]] The bill goes down to 10. the Commission. We will move on to the general vote of Bill No. 10 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Replies the most favourable treatment principle, eliminates the expiry of collective bargaining and regulates the succession of collective labour agreements ( tenth amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP, CH and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, ENP and MP not included Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from PAN and non-registered MP Cristina Rodrigues.]] Let's move on, ladies and gentlemen. Members, with the general vote of Bill No 74 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Promotes collective bargaining by amending the sixth amendment to the Labour Code adopted by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February 2009. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP, CH and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, ENP and MP not included Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from PAN and non-registered MP Cristina Rodrigues.]] We will generally vote for Bill No 130 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Consecrates the replacement of the principle of the most favourable treatment for the worker and the elimination of the expiry of the collective contract ( tenth amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP, CH and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, ENP and MP not included Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from PAN and non-registered MP Cristina Rodrigues.]] We now proceed to the general vote on draft resolution No 729 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Recommends to the Government a set of measures for the more effective and efficient use of EU funds, in particular within the framework of the Cohesion Policy, the Strategic Plan for the Common Agricultural Policy and the European Union Recovery Plan. [[We voted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PCP, ENP and CH.]] The draft resolution goes down to 6. the Commission. We proceed with the general vote of Bill No 589 / XIV / 2. a (IL) — Creation and maintenance of the Transparency Portal by an independent entity. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and BE were rejected, votes in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the CH, the IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the PCP and the PEV.]] We will now vote, in general, on Resolution Project No. 714 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government submit quarterly reports to the Assembly of the Republic on the negotiation and implementation of the European funds allocated to Portugal under the Next Generation Programme and the multiannual financial framework 2021 - 2027 and its implementation of the economic recovery plan Portugal 2020 - 2030. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN, CH, IL and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues, votes against the PS and abstentions of the PCP, the ENP and the non-registered Vice-President Joacine Katar Moreira.]] The draft resolution goes down to 6. the Commission. We turn to the general vote on draft resolution No 748 / XIV / 2. a (BE) — Recommends that the Government establish a public platform, demonstrating, transparently, accessible and territorially, the allocation of European funds allocated to Portugal through the multiannual financial framework 2021 - 2027 and the EU Next Generation Recovery Fund. [[We voted in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against the PS.]] The draft resolution goes down to 6. the Commission. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we shall vote on the Report and Management Account of the Assembly of the Republic for the year 2019. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstention of the IL.]] We now turn to the overall vote on the motion for a resolution No 5 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Agreement on the Participation of Croatia in the European Economic Area, signed in Brussels on 11 April 2014. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PCP and ENP abstentions.]] We shall move on to the overall vote of the motion for a resolution No 8 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Protocol on the Privileges and Immunities of the Unified Patent Court, held in Brussels on 29 June 2016. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, CDS-PP, PAN, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and Abstaining from BE, PCP and ENP.]] We shall move on to the overall vote of the motion for a resolution No 9 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) - Approves the Agreement on Air Transport between the Portuguese Republic and the Republic of Peru, signed in Lisbon on 26 February 2019. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We shall move on to the overall vote of the motion for a resolution No 12 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) - Approves the Framework Agreement between the Portuguese Republic and the United Nations on United Nations Meetings to be held in the Portuguese Republic, signed in New York on 11 May 2020. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We shall move on to the overall vote of the motion for a resolution No 14 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) - Approves the Convention on the Suppression of Illicit Acts relating to International Civil Aviation, adopted in Beijing on 10 September 2010. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PCP and ENP abstentions.]] We shall move on to the overall vote of the motion for a resolution No. 15 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) - Approves the Agreement between the Portuguese Republic and the Republic of Paraguay on the Transfer of Condemned Persons, signed in Lisbon on 11 May 2017. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PCP and ENP abstentions.]] We will vote for the Resolution Project No. 644 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) - Recommends to the Government the involvement of the Armed Forces in the planning and operational actions of the measures and actions that are being adopted in this new phase of combating pandemic, in particular in support of citizens with greater vulnerability and risk, such as support for homes and social institutions throughout the country providing services to this strip of the most vulnerable population. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PSD, CDS-PP, PAN, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PS, BE, PCP and ENP abstentions.]] Mr. João Paulo Correia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u335	Mr President, I would like to inform you that the PS Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u336	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We will vote for the Resolution Project No. 739 / XIV / 2. a ( CH) - By setting up an independent entity to monitor the implementation of the European funds allocated to the recovery and resilience plan of the European Union. [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, the PCP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and votes in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN, CH, IL and Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues.]] We will vote for the Resolution Project No. 689 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) - By setting up a sports support fund for which there is a request from the PSD for separate voting on points 1 and 2. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us then vote on point 1. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PS and IL abstentions.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us vote on point 2. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against IL and PS, PSD and CDS-PP abstentions.]] We shall proceed to the comprehensive final vote of the final text presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on Bills Nos 196 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) - Change the composition of the National Council of Firefighters, enabling the representation of the Portuguese Association of Volunteer Firefighters ( 1. the amendment to Decree-Law No 45 / 2019 of 1 April ), and 203 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) - Change the composition of the National Council of Firefighters, regulated by Decree-Law No 45 / 2019 of 1 April( 1 ). the amendment to Decree-Law No 45 / 2019 of 1 April ). [[The vote was taken in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the CDS-PP abstention.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we must also vote on an opinion from the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of the Members of whom Mr Nelson Peralta will report.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u337	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the request of the Court of Justice of the Comarca de Leiria - Juiz Central Criminal de Leiria - Juiz 1 - Case 2160 / 18.5T9LRA, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mr João Gomes Marques ( PSD ) to give written testimony as a witness within the framework of the cars in question.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u338	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mr. Secretary will also report to the House for further information. You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u339	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the Drafts of Law Nos 590 / XIV / 2 have entered the Bureau. a ( PEV ), which dropped to 10. the Commission, and 591 / XVI / 2. a ( PSD ), which dropped to 1. the Commission. Finally, I would like to make it clear that the following Members were present at this plenary session, via videoconferencing. Members : Marta Freitas, PS, elected by the electoral circle of Madeira, and Sara Madruga da Costa and Sérgio Marques, PSD, also elected by the electoral circle of Madeira. In prophylactic isolation are the Mrs. Deputies Miguel Matos, Marques Perestrelo and Sofia Araújo, of the PS, and Telmo Correia, of the CDS-PP, who also participated by video conference.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-04.u340	Thank you very much. It is only to be announced that the next plenary meeting will take place on Thursday, 10 December, at 3 p.m. of the first item on the agenda is the joint assessment of Bill No. 579 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Change Article 36. the -A of the Statute for Tax Benefits, approved by Decree-Law No 215 / 89 of 1 July, in order to extend the period of admission of new entities to the Scheme of the International Centre for the Business of Madeira or Free Zone of Madeira until 31 December 2023, in accordance with Commission Regulation ( EU ) 2020 / 972 of 2 July 2020 and draft resolution No 648 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government adopt a set of measures to combat tax havens and carry out a cost-benefit assessment of the overall economic, social and fiscal impact of Madeira's Free Zone. of the second point is the joint assessment of Bill Nos 165 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Reduction of the age of reform of persons with disabilities and 588 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Conditions of access to reform for people with disabilities. of the third point is the joint assessment of the Bill Nos 523 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Extension of the time limit for the holding of safe houses by firearms holders(1). the amendment to Law No 50 / 2019 of 24 July ), and 554 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Consecrates an extraordinary period of voluntary delivery of unexpressed or registered firearms and of the Resolution Project No 526 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government prohibit the use of lead in munitions of kinetic activity and in firing camps. In the fourth point 4 the Resolution Project No 693 / XIV / 2 will be appreciated. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government disclose information on COVID-19 in a school context and develop a screening programme. At the fifth point we shall proceed to the joint assessment of Bill No 134 / XIV / 1. a (NAP) — Visa for the prohibition of the manufacture, possession, use and sale of devices that serve only for the capture of wild birds not subject to the chinetic exploitation of the Bill No 215 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Removes the bream rabbit from the species subject to kinegetic exploitation, from the Resolution Project No 140 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends to the Government that it establish a temporary moratorium regime for the common roll hunt of draft Law No 158 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — It prohibits fox hunting, excludes this species from the list of kinetic species and amends to Decree-Law No 202 / 2004 of 18 August of the Bill No 159 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — It prohibits hunting of raspberries, excludes this species from the list of kinetic species and amends to Decree-Law No 202 / 2004 of 18 August of the Bill No 160 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — It prohibits hunting at honey, excludes this species from the list of kinetic species and amends to Decree-Law No 202 / 2004 of 18 August of the Bill No 161 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — It prohibits hunting for black darts, excludes this species from the list of kinetic species and amends to Decree-Law No 202 / 2004 of 18 August of the Bill No 162 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — prohibits hunting, excludes this species from the list of kinetic species and amends to Decree-Law No 202 / 2004 of 18 August of the Bill No 163 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — It prohibits the hunting of prey and excludes this species from the list of kinetic species and amends to Decree-Law No 202 / 2004 of 18 August of the Bill No 586 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ) — condition the pursuit of the hunt to non-threatening or near-threatening kinegetic species that have known conservation status( 8 ). the amendment to Decree-Law No 202 / 2004 of 18 August ) and Draft Law No 587 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ) — prohibits the production, possession, use and marketing of the means and forms applied exclusively for the capture or slaughter of non-cinegetic specimens of wild birds ( 3 ). the amendment to Decree-Law No 140 / 99 of 24 April ). of the sixth point is the assessment of the draft resolution No 429 / XIV / 1. a (PV) — Information to citizens on the best practices of the current use of personal protective material, such as masks, visors or gloves, and encouragement to the option for reusable material. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have come to the end of our work today. I would remind you that we have a meeting of the Conference of Leaders on Wednesday and that on the fifth we will have a plenary meeting with this ambitious agenda. The session is closed. [[It was 18 hours and 11 minutes.]]
