ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, let's start the session. [[It was 10 hours and 3 minutes.]] Mrs. Officers of authority, I ask you to open the gates of the galleries. of the first item on our agenda is the joint discussion, in general, of Bill No. 3 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) and the Bills Nos 180 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) and 193 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Approves the Statute of the Former Combatant. To open the debate, you have the floor of the Secretary of State for Human Resources and Former Combatants, Catarina Castro. The Secretary of StateResourcesHumanosisAnti-combatants ( Catarina Sarmento Castro ) : — Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Former combatants present in the Hemicycle, Mr. Former Combatants and their representative associations, who accompany us in the galleries and from here I greet: I rise today to this forum on behalf of the Government and, in this quality, on behalf of the Portuguese, firstly, to pay tribute to the former combatants, in a gesture that is intended to be recognized and of solidarity. If the immediate objective of my words is to present the Government's proposal for a law on the Statute of the Old Combatant, my presence in this gallery, first of all, must pay deep tribute to sacrifice, self-denial, loyalty and courage in the face of the indispensable dangers and difficulties of all those who fought by the Fatherland in the Colonial War. The Statute of the Old Combatant that presents itself wants to be an expression of the duty of justice of a country to those who have given the strength of their youth to the service of Portugal, to all dignifying and strengthening the support to whom most needs. For this reason, this public intervention should only be understood as a political act in the only meaning in this matter: in its most noble form, the one that respectfully bows to those who have given so much of themselves and deserve it, the one who intends to intervene with those who need it most. This design of recognition and solidarity will be, I am sure, what, in this House and in the country, unites us all: the tribute and recognition of Portugal to those who have given their best years to a brutal war that has torn them to their homes and their families; to the many boys of their mother who have not returned; to those who bear in themselves the perpetual physical marks or the heavy silences of the pain of the soul that time does not erase, in a waste of images, gestures, smells, sounds, names of comrades who do not forget, on the contrary; to those who constitute, today, a generation that has aged and that has been indelibly marked by a cruel and miserable time lost, who has ruined so many lives — their own and that of many around them, including the life of those who want them well. The proposal presented by the Government to Parliament is based on the projects submitted by the various parliamentary groups many common denominators. On many points, this proposal goes beyond what is proposed in those drafts, which leads me to believe that this bill of law can be the way to find a broad consensus that requires this tribute and dignity of a life course that no other generation has suffered, goals that have done with what the government, instead of approving a decree-law in this matter, to bring it to this House of Democracy—and, therefore, plural— by seeking through this proposal to commit the effort of all and the recognition by everyone, in a collective gesture. I wish and believe that together — Government and Parliament — we will achieve this. It is much more what unites us all in this proposal than what separates us. The present statute systematizes existing social and economic rights, facilitating their knowledge, but without excluding others who may, in the future, be consecrated. It also proposes new rights, wishing the Government to grant these war veterans free of charge in public transport in metropolitan areas and inter-municipal communities and free entry into national museums and monuments. It is also defined as a Day of the Old Combatant, and with the statute is created the Card of the Old Fighter, a personal and vital document that constitutes a facilitating element in the relationship with public services. In addition to its symbolic character, the card aims to be an instrument for simplifying access to social and economic rights enshrined in the legislation. The status presented also gives force of law to existing instruments, but which, by this way, are based in the legal order and more responsible to the public authorities for their functioning. This is the case of the Military Deficit Support Action Plan (MAP), the Stress Resource Centre in Military Context or the Single Defence Balcony, with presenceal, telephone or electronic assistance. On the other hand, the protection granted by the national support network is extended and the medical, psychological and social support granted to the family is legally enshrined. They are also created innovative instruments, such as the Technical Unit for the Old Fighters, or the Plan of Support for the Old Fighters in the Situation of Homelessness, all initiatives accompanied by the projects of many parliamentary groups. This is a responsible proposal, and it is, however, particularly supportive of former combatants who need more support, since, in parallel with the creation of the Statute of the Old Combatant, it responds to the demands of their associations, by increasing the value of the special pension supplement for twice as it has so far been established. This improvement solution is accompanied by some of the projects presented by parliamentary groups or even improves the proposal of others, which I believe is an important sign of what unites us — the improvement of the lives of the former combatants in greater need. On the other hand, it is also a proposal that corresponds to the desire of the Association of Armed Forces Deficiencies, by introducing an amendment to Decree-Law No 503 / 99, in order to remove the application of this decree from the law to those who have contracted diseases and injuries in the performance of military service, when the facts giving rise to the pension or disability occurred before the entry into force of this 1999 diploma, and in such cases the provisions of the Staff Regulations of Appeal are applied, and this is more favourable, which is a long-claimed claim and which translates into a significant increase in the benefit granted to these disabled persons. This is the example of a very just solution, in which all projects converge with this bill. The proposal has also not forgotten those other young people who have joined the national forces highlighted in the missions of the United Nations, the Atlantic Alliance and the European Union, ensuring compliance with Portugal's international obligations in the context of military missions with humanitarian objectives or the establishment and maintenance of peace, some of which have high levels of danger, especially in countries or territories in situations of war, internal armed conflict or generalized insecurity. It is also fair that the contribution of these military, although of the first well distinct but valuable, is recognised by the Portuguese State. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, "comparison" is one of the words we have heard most among the former combatants. The Government's proposal for the Statute of the Former Combatant is, however, a record of recognition, dignity and solidarity and the appreciation of these soldiers. We have worked — the Government, the Minister of National Defence and myself — to meet, around the proposal of the Old Combating Statute presented to Parliament, as much consensus as possible. Since this is the moment when Parliament, and not the government, will give its opinion, and for that I have no doubt that Parliament will work very hard, it will not let the government compete for this design by presenting the clarifications and the contributions that you can make. Members agree that it is necessary for a debate on the subject to be held. I hope that we will all join in this joint work now begun, that Parliament will continue, and that we will all be embroiled in the common and strong purpose of honoring and dignifying those young soldiers who were then called to fight for their homeland, have given it the best of themselves in the horrors of a long war, in a sacrifice that so far all marks and that remains in their families. when presenting the Statute of the Old Combatant, we wish to dignify those young soldiers, recognize their sacrifice and courage and underline their dignified place in history. I'm sure we're all together for this purpose. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u2	Mr. João Vasconcelos, of the Left Block, was registered to request clarification from the Secretary of State. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u3	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, once again we are here discussing the status of the former fighter, a fairly old claim, in particular for all those who have been violently removed by the fascist regime, their families and their lands and thrown into an unjust and criminal colonial war, a war that has caused enormous suffering and thousands of fatal, wounded and disabled victims on both sides. Even today, there are many thousands of ex-Militaries who, after returning, suffer from serious diseases and sequelae. A large part lives with miserable pensions that in no way dignify their stocks parks. They have been unjustly forgotten, not by society, but by successive governments over all these years. Having said this, it is legitimate for the State to do justice to them and to give them due recognition and solidarity, unfortunately for many to already tread an advanced age and in which many others are no longer among us. The Left Block considers that there has been a loss in the past legislature of an opportunity for the creation of an effective statute for these military. The Government of that time submitted a proposal that was late and very insufficient. The Bloc was one of the political forces who presented a set of amendments to improve this proposed statute and which met the demands of the former military, but when everything indicated that a statute would be created, the government, inexplicably, withdrew the document. It was a situation that caused great frustration and discontent within the former military. Even today, Madam Secretary of State, we do not know the reasons that led the Government from then on to withdraw the document. I don't know if you can point to some of these reasons. Mr Secretary of State, the Government's proposal provides for the establishment of a Stress Resource Centre in Military Context, with which the Left Block agrees. This resource centre will have as objectives the collection and analysis of knowledge related to the post-traumatic stress of military war, the development of studies and research, the development of recommendations and protocols with universities. If so, it will be clearly insufficient. This resource centre should, in our view, link itself with the National War Stress Victim Support Network and go much further, with the strengthening of funds to support the former military in these conditions and to extend this support to their families. The Left Block, in the State Budget for 2020, made these proposals for addition, which merited the vote against the PS and the abstention of the PSD, thus leading to its rejection. The question I would like to leave to you, Madam Secretary of State, is whether you agree that the status goes against the demands of former soldiers suffering from post-traumatic stress of war, reinforcing support, including their families. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u4	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Secretary of State for Human Resources and Former Combatants.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u5	Mr President, Mr. João Vasconcelos, the issue concerning the resource centre is indeed very important and is quite right when he says that it must be linked with the National Support Network. This is an issue that I myself am taking into my own hands and, therefore, I am going to move forward the issues concerning the National Support Network. With regard to the specific question you have asked me, I suppose these proposals were put forward during the debate on the Budget. Now, it turns out that there was already a proposal for a bill on the Statute of the Old Combatant on the table, so it made all the sense that it would be discussed at this time and not in budget. With regard to the issue of the bill previously submitted, it is true that the bill now under discussion has been strengthened, improved and goes further in terms of social benefits for the former combatants. I must remind the honourable Member that we took possession of this bill on 26 October and that, five weeks later, this bill was passed in the Council of Ministers and soon thereafter, with the Budget and Christmas in the middle, we are discussing it here.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u6	To present the bill of the Left Block, Mr. João Vasconcelos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u7	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Left Block Parliamentary Group presents a bill with a view to the creation of the Statute of the former Combatant. The same contains a very substantial set of positive proposals that meet the legitimate aspirations and demands of the former military, most of them already over 70 years old and which have long been expected to be brought to justice. These proposals, together with others from various parliamentary groups and from the Government itself, constitute a sound basis for drawing up a serious, valued, dignified and fair status. Thus, our bill will go down to the Defense Commission for this work to be done. The Left Block hopes that the other political forces will work in this direction and do not empty this future law, although the temptation may be great, particularly on the part of the PS, PSD and CDS, because « cold water heated cat is afraid ». If that happens, the country and especially the ex-military and their families, ex-military who still remain today, would not forgive them. I refer to the former military who, in the 1960s and 1970s, when they were at the beginning of their youth, were brutally torn, by the Salazarist regime of the New State, their families, from north to south of the country and also from the Azores and Madeira islands and sent to colonial wars in Angola, Guinea-Bissau and Mozambique. But they were also sent, against their will, to other colonial territories, such as the so-called « State of India », Timor, Macao, Cape Verde and Sao Tome and Principe. Many thousands of these military and many thousands of other natural people from these territories died in these criminal wars, were injured or victims of accidents and diseases. Those who have returned and who are still among us bear the marks of these dark times of the dictatorship of Salazar and Caetano. Many suffer from disability. Unfortunately, how many of these former soldiers do not take very low reforms, what aggravates their difficult existence? the recognition and solidarity of these persons by the State shall be legitimate. For the Left Block, the statute should cover all those who participated and were forced to go to all the former colonies, even where there was no war. in these territories, there was certainly another type of violence that left apples and caused diseases and accidents, because the incorporation was mandatory and led to the military being so long away from home and their families. It is more fair to include all these soldiers in the future status than to consider only those who voluntarily participate in missions and “war games” at the service of NATO ( North Atlantic Treaty Organization ), a military organization serving the warlords of the United States of America and Europe and which is not used to make peace because it was created to make war. In the project of the Left Block, a set of rights and benefits to be considered in the statute for our former military, to be emphasized: the exemption of moderate rates in the SNS (National Health Service ) ; medical and free medical support in various diseases or for those who take low pensions; legal support and protection; free use of public transport; free entry in museums and other cultural public spaces; access to the hospitals of the Armed Forces. On the other hand, these former soldiers should not take pensions below the national minimum wage and the special pension supplement should also be revalued. These benefits should be transmitted to the surviving spouse of the holder, including in a de facto union. Our bill also does not forget the ex-Militaries who eventually became disabled—without, of course, prejudice to the approval of their own statute for them still in this legislature—, not being applied to them as required by Decree-Law No 503 / 99. We also propose the creation of a single defence counter, a national support network and a stress resource centre in the military context, which goes against projects that were presented by other political forces. As I said recently, one of the aspects that should be of particular interest to the government, where the status regulation is concerned, is the post-traumatic stress of war, which, after more than 45 years after 25 April, continues to affect more than 100 000 people. It is not enough for the statute to provide a resource centre, and concrete measures must be taken. As you know, post-traumatic stress of war has no cure, but its effects can be mitigated. As one said, it is "a kind of bomb to the retarder in the person's brain" and "can explode months or even years later", and it can seriously affect the person himself and even family and friends. The Left Block Parliamentary Group received an e-mail from an ex-military who was forced to spend 39 months in the Angolan war and was eventually reformed by post-traumatic stress of war. His report is very painful and traumatic: he told us that he remained with permanent marks due to the noise of the fire of weapons, that his hearing system was seriously affected and that, all these years, he continues to hear permanently, day and night, the noise of ammunition, which is a real hell. He also told us that, last year, twice as he slept, he was pushed from the bed against the bodyguard, having been quite mistreated. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, like this former military, there are thousands of others who do not receive any support from the State and who put hope in the creation of a true status, just as they put hope in a true status many other ex-military who are still among us. They can, of course, count on the Left Block. Finally, I return to the previous testimony of Mr. João Silva, who gave permission to be a citationr. I would then like to quote a few verses which he sent to the Parliamentary Group of the Block of the Left, with the title Alma Morta : “I look at the mirror and I see mine” dead soul/participate the mirror and my soul remains in a thousand pieces/step with feet the thousand pieces until they disappear on the ground/outside / anger causes the heart to bleed/ this bleeding took the earth/ and the thousand pieces of the mirror remained at the exhibition / regrouping/ the mirror was back to my face/ to see again / minh ’ dead soul! Do I exist? Evil and cursed war/ many million you win/ no matter how you stay/ even those who are going to bury! As life would be different/ if war hadn't gone/ today would be like everyone/ and wouldn't be a living dead! Do not keep on seeking. ” [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u8	To present the PSD bill, Mrs Ana Miguel dos Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u9	Mr President, Mrs State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members, Dear former combatants here today: Last December 12, the Social Democratic Party stated in this Chamber that it was available to work constructively with all political forces to be able to adopt a Statute of the Old Combat that was as consensual as possible. The PSD, I reaffirm, remains available to achieve this consensus, however it will fight for this diploma to meet the aspirations and, above all, the needs of our former combatants. We will have the right recognition, necessary and unequivocal recognition of these women and men, which must be realized once and for all without political propaganda. However, considering that almost all parties with parliamentary seats have presented diplomas on this subject, including very similar ones, we are sure that the House is in a position to approve this status as soon as possible. However, the PSD argues that an Old Combating Statute should be more ambitious and go beyond proposals such as free entry into museums or presentation of cards that require a condition. The Statute of the Old Combatant cannot forget the military family, especially the widows and widows of the former combatants, to whom the sacrifice of their own life was imposed without giving them anything in return. We reiterate that the military family cannot be a concept used to fill a simple preamble to a diploma. Support for the military family must be a reality materialized in concrete measures that represent real changes in the lives of these people. More important than we produce virtual platforms that signal the condition of homeless is to offer these people a decent housing.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u10	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u11	These people expect more from us, and if we are not able to give more then we fail as society. For all this, the diploma of the Social Democratic Party, in addition to following the proposals of the various parties and the Government, goes further, presenting measures that seek to contemplate the old claims and needs of the former combatants, as well as measures that improve the living conditions of these people. We propose: the right of preference in social housing for former combatants or their widows who are in a homeless situation; the extension of the special pension supplement and special pension supplement for widows or widows of former combatants; the exemption of moderate rates for former combatants as well as widows or widows; and the inclusion in the Citizenship Card of the designation of 'national recognition holder'. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Portugal has a debt of gratitude to the former combatants who have been at the service of our country and who have been in service for more than four decades. The former fighters and their families have done a lot for Portugal. They can't even wait anymore. We cannot let it be the time to resolve this matter. It's time to act, because every day it happens will always be too late. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u12	For an intervention, Mr Marcos Perestrello, of the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u13	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, Mrs and Mrs. Deputies, Portuguese combatants, Portuguese combatants' representatives, the verses of a Portuguese fighter in the Colonial War say: "I was what others did not want to be/ went where others were afraid to go and realized facts that others could not fulfill/ saw the face of terror/ felt the cold pain of fear/sacrifice/suffry/s prayed/ but, above all things/live intensely time and were that others / cowardly and unjustly / want to forget". Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, these anonymous verses, attributed to a Portuguese soldier fighting in Africa in our colonial war, evoke the horrors of war, but above all, call for the absolute need to never forget them. Nearly 1, 5 million Portuguese served Portugal in the Armed Forces during the 13 years of the Colonial War. A generation of Portuguese, some of European and others, also many of African origin, fought side by side in distant territories and suffered side by side, sacrificing their youth, accumulating memories and, in many cases, receiving permanent marks and profound consequences for the rest of their lives. Some patriotic volunteers, others in the fulfilment of a duty no less patriotic, all fighters from Portugal, who therefore deserve to be recognized, respected and deserving of public gratitude, recognition and solidarity of the Portuguese State. In modern and democratic Portugal, the Armed Forces continue to play a relevant role, in particular in supporting foreign policy and public-interest missions to serve the people. in these days of democracy we have participated with a new generation of combatants, men and women, in various scenarios of stabilising conflicts resulting from the new political and strategic framework such as the Baltic Sea, the Mediterranean, Africa or the Middle East. Older fighters and younger fighters, all served their country and all deserve public recognition. The Socialist Party welcomes the Government's initiative to present a bill in this House with a view to the creation of the Statute of the Old Fighter, thus correcting a collective failure of decades, failed without justification at the end of the last Parliament but now resumed in good time. Mr President, today we are debating three initiatives that join three other initiatives already discussed last December in this House : a proposal for a government law and draft laws of the PSD, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the Left Block and the PAN. We have been used in Parliament, Mr President, to dig deep trenches and to worry - above all, to accentuate the differences and to look for the points of cleavage between each of the parties, but a balanced and cohesive society also needs points of convergence and, when reading the six diplomas under discussion, I understand, Mr President, that we are facing a subject where we will be able to find a broad political convergence and that will allow us to build a common and unique text in which we will all recognise and which will be adopted by a large majority. We are thus able to materialize the recognition of the Portuguese State to the soldiers who fought for the service of Portugal by means of a statute incorporating instruments of social and economic support into a financially sustainable framework. Mr. President, the time goes by when the return of the war was left to his luck. The country was different and today it's different and better. The society so demands, the political power also does so, but on this occasion we must remember, in particular, the 100 years of history and work of the League of Combatants, the 45 years of history and work of the Association of Armed Forces Deficients, who, before all, began to struggle for the dignity of the Portuguese combatants, and therefore deserves our tribute here today. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u14	For an intervention, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u15	Mr. President, Mrs. and Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs. Deputies, Dear Old Combatants: The Liberal Initiative will vote in favour of the proposed law of the Government and the draft law of the PSD relating to the Statute of the Old Combatant. We do so for reasons of establishing justice and in recognition of the struggle and sacrifice of these men and women of the military forces, in our name and in our defense. This recognition is only a sin of late, but we will vote in this way mainly for deeper reasons. To lead our lives in coherence and integrity requires courage; to propose unpopular choices requires courage; to face interests and ideas installed requires courage; to reform the existing immobilist and statistic system requires courage; and to persist and persevere in these fights requires courage. These men and women, whom we recognize here today, have demonstrated this courage and must be an example for all of us. This example that we are left with deserves more than just the approval of the Statute of the Old Combatant, a "thank you very much" meaning and sound.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u16	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u17	I shall conclude, Mr. President. It is our deep conviction that we will not honor the example of these former fighters if we are, in life and politics, without courage. Beshajam!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u18	For an intervention, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u19	Mr President, Mrs State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members: I begin by greeting the representatives of the associations of former combatants and disabled armed forces present here today for the tireless work they have done, bringing to this House and to all of us, as elected, a fair concern in which their rights are recognized. I also begin by congratulating the Government, the Left Block and the PSD for joining in with that concern, which has already been brought here by other political forces, such as the NAP, to recognize the status of the former fighter. We all, as a collective, are in fact in debt to the combatants, to their widows and to their families, being imperative to respond to the righteous demands of those who, one day, were forced to serve the country and who today are voting for forgetfulness. This means that there is at least today a political will to have a minimum consensus on what your claims are, however, that minimum consensus cannot be translated into a minimum of recognized rights. For the former combatants and their families, but also thought for those who are now serving the country again, the minimum rights and also concerns must be enshrined in this statute that respond to their remunerative appreciation, to the one who is their right to specialized health and who meets what is not only their physical pathologies, but also their mental health needs. We therefore need to go further, such as the allocation of the ex-combatant card, access to museums, access to passes and public transport. All this is complaints that we cannot forget. But we must not forget that there are more than 400 000 combatants, some 100 000 of whom are vulnerable or poor. For these also there must be a particular and special intervention of the State. Today, we are here with this minimum common denominator of concern, which means that social benefits, particularly disability benefits, must also be updated. No one lives with 11 € or 16 € disability allowance. An ex-combatant who is in post-traumatic stress will not be able to recover his life, so it is enough what the state has taken from him. It is, in fact, imperative that justice be done today by advancing to what is an appropriate status for ex-combatants and their families who today also play a role of their caregivers, also ensuring the provision of health care, including mental health. In fact, we must move forward quickly with the status of the former fighter without forgetting those who are, in fact, disabled by the Armed Forces, creating, in parallel, their own status. This means that Article 55 itself. the paragraph 1 of Decree-Law No 503 / 99 shall not be applied to the military when the facts that originated, for example, the allocation of their pension occurred before the entry into force of this diploma. Here are particularities and specificities of these people who have, in fact, to be adjusted to our times. At the same time, it must be established, during this legislature, that there is indeed a specific status both for one situation and for another, and move forward towards that which is the just and historic replacement of the rights of these people who served the country. The NAP is strongly committed to contributing to this dialogue and we hope that, in the field of expertise, it will be possible to meet what has historically been denied to them. We cannot come here, in a proclaiming manner, to evoke the memory of ex-combatants or the testimony of the people who have experienced the trauma of war. We often thought about what even personally they conveyed to us and we could see in their eyes what weighed down their lives and then not have the force of law. Thus, it is of the most fundamental justice to do so and they count on us for this demand. [[Congratulations on the PAN and on the PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u20	Mr António Filipe, from the CFP, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u21	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, Mr. Members: On behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, I begin by associating myself with the greetings here made to the former Portuguese fighters and in particular their representatives, who today attend this debate in the galleries and from here we warmly greet. The former Portuguese fighters have been the target of various homages in the essential symbolic. Not that symbolism is not important and that these tributes are not deserved, but obviously not enough. We are talking of a generation that was sacrificed, of all the young people who performed military service during those long 13 years of colonial war, from the beginning of the 1960s to the independence of the former colonies, following the Revolution of 25 April 1974. It was indeed a generation sacrificed in harsh scenarios of war, a war they did not wish for, but for which they were effectively dragged. Many of these young people lost their lives in the Colonial War, they all delayed their life plans, they all went through a traumatic experience, many returned with severe physical sequels and mutilations, but many of them, too, with serious psychological problems, notably traumatic war stress and many of them, over the years, have asked for recognition of this situation, lacking the support that the State has never given them. Therefore, the former fighters, more than deserved symbolic homages, need concrete support not only symbolic but also material, and that is also what we have discussed here. As it is known, the CFP presented its bill already last November, having been discussed here during the discussion of a petition precisely on this matter of the approval of the Statute of the Old Combatant. We would like to welcome both the Government and the other parliamentary groups that have presented the initiatives currently under discussion and which make today the start of a decisive stage: that of the approval, in the specialty, of the Statute of the Old Combat, which gives them not only a symbolic recognition, but which also reflects concrete aspects that can be reflected in the improvement of their living conditions. Therefore, from today onwards, we are in a position to begin in the National Defence Commission what we hope will be the decisive debate on this matter, which culminates in the adoption of the statute, and which does not happen as unfortunately happened in the previous legislature, in which there were expectations that were frustrated. Now we are in time, we are not at the end of the legislature, we have conditions to do so, but we must do so without unnecessary drags. Let us move on to the discussion, in our specialty, of what is concrete. It is that there are rights that should be recognised to former combatants, from the very outset, as regards the exemption of the moderate rates of the National Health Service, in medical and medical support for the health problems they have. In the field of justice, the Statute must recognise its situation in terms of judicial costs and legal fees and also in respect of its retirement pensions. in this regard, there is one aspect that should be taken into account that has to do with the application of Law No 9 / 2002 of 11 February, which has created a fair expectation of recognition of the Statute of the former fighter in the area of retirement pensions. What happens is that this Law was never effectively applied as it was supposed to be and, a few years later, it came to be completely deverted, which created a situation of great discontent among the generality of the former fighters. It was a Law of the Republic that was never effectively fulfilled as it should have been, this legislative process being the opportunity to revisit this diploma, to revisit the changes that have distorted it and put things as they should be placed in relation to the pension supplements of the former combatants and, in particular, those who were exposed to situations of great danger, situations that the law had foreseen that they were contemplated, but that indeed they were never as they should have been. It is also the time for, once and for all, to solve the problem of the disabled armed forces who were included in the application of Decree-Law No 503 / 99 of 20 November, which determined that their situation was comparable to other types of deficiencies than that which effectively resulted from the fulfilment of military service in a war situation.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u22	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u23	I shall conclude, Mr President. Therefore, this is the time for, once and for all, they are excluded from the application of Decree-Law No 503 / 99 of 20 November, and are recognized for the retirement status. We cannot stop taking that action in this process. Mr President, I would like to end by voting once again so that, in the field of expertise, this work will begin swiftly and that, as soon as possible, the adoption of the Statute of the former fighter, which is well-deserved and which is only late, will be concluded. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u24	Mr Joacine Katar Moreira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u25	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I will vote in favour of legislative initiatives to create the status of the former fighter, for recognition, solidarity and justice for the military who have been sent, often against his will, to fight in the name of a fascist and authoritarian regime against peoples fighting for freedom and self-determination. That'll demand something from us. It will require no political party to call "military campaigns" what we believe to be colonial war. And it will also demand that we not forget the former combatants, recruited in the old colonies, the African Commands of the Portuguese Armed Forces, many completely abandoned to their fate.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u26	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u27	It is the responsibility of the State to safeguard the well-being, monitoring and recognition of all former combatants, whether or not they are on national territory.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u28	For an intervention, Mr Raul Miguel Castro has the floor by the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u29	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, dear comrades: It is fair to honor the former combatants and disabled of the Armed Forces. I believe it is unanimous and it is fair to leave a recognition to these people, just as it is fair to pay tribute to the families and the people closest to these combatants who, by virtue of the war, have seen their outlook on life altered and profoundly destructed. But it is also essential, since we are discussing the status of the former fighter, to look at the Portuguese military that have integrated the UN ( United Nations ) national forces, NATO ( North Atlantic Treaty Organization ) or the European Union, ensuring compliance with Portugal's international obligations. It is also for this reason that its contribution is recognised by the Portuguese State and is now enshrined in the proposed statute submitted by the Government. Madam Secretary of State, Mr Prime Minister, very well has led the Secretary of State for Human Resources and the Former Affairs, and very well has led the Secretary of State who, in a short time, has drawn up a bill that includes an increase in the value of the special pension supplement for the beneficiaries of the old-age social pension; that creates the single defence desk; that also creates a plan of support for former combatants in a homeless situation; that develops the Stress Resource Centre in Military Context (CRSCM) and the national support network and that establishes the Action Plan for Support for Military Deficients (PADM) and creates the technical unit for the former combatants, which has the task of precisely coordinating the implementation of the status we are now discussing. Mr President and Mrs Secretary of State, this proposal is undoubtedly a good starting point. We must recognize that the Portuguese State has a debt of gratitude which, for many years, has not been able to recognize. This proposal is a good starting point for us to make this status with the contribution of all, since there seems to be an understanding on the part of all parliamentary groups in order to define once and for all the best status for the former combatants and disabled armed forces. That is what we hope will happen already in the work on the following speciality and for which the Socialist Party will contribute actively, responsible and committed. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u30	Mr Telmo Correia, from the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u31	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: First of all, I would like to stress the importance of this discussion, its relevance, to greet those who are here and to join us today, being former combatants or representatives of associations of former combatants, and whose presence highly prestigious these works, and to tell them that, from our point of view, the former fighter is who served the homeland, who honored our flag, who fought, who was exposed to risk situations, who did not desert, who did not betray. These are the former fighters and the former fighters served Portugal. They did not serve in function of a certain moment of our history, according to a certain regime, served Portugal, as was their obligation at that time, honoring our history, our homeland and our flag.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u32	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u33	The CDS, in this debate, had the primacy, was the first party to put the matter on the agenda and to present a proposal on this matter, even in December last year, immediately followed by the Portuguese Communist Party and the NAP. The government is now also presenting its proposal, as well as the PSD and other parties. That is, from our point of view, positive. It was, Mr. Marcos Perestrello, that such consensus that existed at the end of the past legislature had been broken. The consensus existed and was broken was by the Government and the Socialist Party. Otherwise, this question could have been settled in the previous legislature and not passed on to it. But, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it's worth more late than ever. And if we are now going to solve the question, then let us move forward in this solution and be resolved, for example, the question of the accumulation of support which was precisely revoked by a Government of the Socialist Party in 2009. It is time to resolve this matter and the accumulation of support is possible. It is good that, as has already been said, the question of equalizing support for those who have served on other occasions or in other circumstances, other than military, and have had accidents or professional problems. It is important that this is also resolved in this statute. The old fighter's card is relevant. There are very important proposals which now appear, including those of the CDS — and, as I have already mentioned, we have been the first to put the subject on the agenda — and which bring more detail, go further and I am glad to say so. I would therefore like to congratulate Mrs PSD on her presentation here on behalf of her party. It is good to go further in some of these matters. Mrs. Members, it is gratifying for us, that we have always considered the prestige of the military institution and the relevance of those who serve it as fundamental, to verify, for example, that the Block of the Left itself, which is normally against everything of the military condition and even managed to vote against the National Defence Day, now also joins us with the presentation of a legislative initiative. And it is gratifying, even from the historical point of view, considering the responsibility so negative that their ancestors had, especially at the time of the Prec (Revolutionary Process in Course), in what happened, for example, to the Portuguese who were in our colonies in transition to independence. It is gratifying to see that they also present these types of proposals now. I'm glad they do. The question here is what we are going to do, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, with these various proposals. What we are advocating is that, within the Commission, if more and no less, more housing can be achieved, more transport, more health, more extension to the families of the former combatants, when necessary, of these same rights. That is to say, we are in favour of it — without attempting to make any political advantage — a crowd of what the various parties are presenting, not remaining to the minimum proposal presented by the Government and the various parties. That's the challenge we're facing. The CDS, in this matter, is absolutely coherent. Our commitment is to those who served the homeland. What we want is to see the matter solved and now.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u34	Doesn't look like it! Doesn't look like it!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u35	We will not vote against a proposal on behalf of those who present it. It's indifferent to us. We are prepared to find the best solution, regardless of the political force it presents. We want this solution to be found not in this Parliament, but already in this Legislative Session. In other words, until the summer there is a status of the worthy, just and right fighter. That is our commitment and that is our commitment.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u36	Mr Sérgio Marques of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u37	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, dear former combatants: The greatest and most intense expression of citizenship is to be prepared to fight for the homeland, as a result of our military service obligations. We may consider the conflicts in which we intervene as deeply unjust, but it is unquestionable that Portugal has a huge debt of recognition towards the thousands of Portuguese who, by virtue of their citizenship duties, have fought in defence of our flag, risking their physical and psychic integrity and life itself. All the former combatants are therefore worthy of our greatest respect and admiration, for the example of citizenship each one constitutes. It is never too much to take advantage of any opportunity to thank them for the self-sacrifice, sacrifice and courage they have shown at the service of Portugal. Adopting the status of former combatants is a national imperative. We cannot delay it any longer and it is the least we can do in the way of recognition and solidarity. But this status cannot be merely symbolic, it must be endowed with real content in terms of economic and social rights and benefits. It is for this purpose that the PSD presents its bill, while welcoming the government and the various other political forces that have also done so. The PSD has already demonstrated its full availability for a concerted effort leading to the preparation, within the specialized committee, of the National Defence Commission, of a replacement text, alternative to the various legislative initiatives. We hope that this text will be able to incite the greatest political support. We also hope that the Government will be available for this financial year. This is not a matter for political confrontation and political-party dispute. On the contrary, we must make use of our greater sense of institutional responsibility. We have an indispensable duty to approve the status of the former combatants who correspond to their aspirations and who do not give up those which other countries have already adopted. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President José Manuel Pureza took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u38	You now have the floor for an intervention on behalf of the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group, Mr Manuel Afonso.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u39	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, Mr and Mr. Members, ex-combatants: As a Member and former fighter in Mozambique, I cannot fail to point out to myself and to all ex-combatants the fact that we are, at a distance of two months, discussing the status of the former fighter for the second time in this Chamber. The country owes much to a generation of thousands of Portuguesemen who fought in an unjust war but who, in performing compulsory military service, honored their military duty, honored their country, honored their homeland. Honoring the former combatants is therefore nothing more than a duty of the Portuguese State, which we now see being fulfilled with the status of the former fighter. There are many former combatants in very complicated situations, who suffer from physical and mental difficulties, who have serious social and economic shortages and who need support according to their needs. There are many combatants in homeless situations and it is our duty to ensure that they have a decent home to spend the rest of their lives. There are many combatants who suffer from post-traumatic stress, as a result of their military duty in Africa, on behalf of the Portuguese State. We should try to guarantee them the information and the necessary referral so that they are not forgotten and lost in their traumas. This statute will certainly not forget them. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a very important time for the former combatants. We have the historic opportunity to achieve, for the first time in this House, a statute that contributes to improving support for health, quality of life, its autonomy and its aging, making social isolation and exclusion not a reality, either for former combatants or for the disabled of the Armed Forces. The Socialist Party is here and is next to the old fighters. It is time for us to work together and all of us from the CFP to the CDS, in the National Defence Commission, to do our part, by making our contribution, so that we will soon have an approved status, which will dignify the work of this Parliament and, above all, dignify the former combatants. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u40	We are thus finishing this first item on our agenda. We move on to the second point which consists of the joint discussion, in general, of Bill Nos 1 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves the new legal regime for the establishment and operation of pension funds and pension fund managers by transposing Directive ( EU ) No 2016 / 2341, and 8 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Adapts the sanction schemes provided for in the legal arrangements applicable to investment fund managers and credit institution managers. To speak on behalf of the Government, Mr. Under-Secretary of State and Finance, Ricardo Mourinho Félix.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u41	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The bill we present to this House today is another example of the government's priority in encouraging savings. In the case of this initiative, do so to the extent that it contributes to the preservation of greater Portuguese income after the contribution career and to a strong pension system, based on the diversification of savings products for reform, as well as effective supervision. We therefore propose that the House improve the pension scheme and transpose the directive on occupational pension plans. Having a modern legal framework for pension funds is also promoting savings, without jeopardizing the social security system, which is, and will continue to be, the central element of our social model. We want to ensure that savers are more protected when saving through a pension fund. Therefore, the bill we present strengthens the governance of managing entities and guarantees greater protection of savings and greater transparency. This proposal lays down detailed rules on risk control and also on the adequacy of managers, including eligibility requirements. Pension funds are subject to the most demanding marketing rules. Manager companies will be required to define product design policies appropriate to the saving profile, as well as to monitor and evaluate the adequacy of the distribution strategy. Information duties are also strengthened. The new information document should include the identification of benefits, performance guarantees and description of the assets in which the fund invests. Historical profitability will also be required, so that the savers decide with all the information. Limits shall be set on transfers of applications from a pension fund to another company. On the other hand, this committee cannot exceed 0, 5 % of the value, ensuring greater choice and healthy competition. The supervisory framework is also strengthened. The Insurance Supervisory Authority and Pension Funds ( ASF ) will start carrying out effort tests and will have the means to implement corrective measures. It shall also have powers to punish the failure to fulfil the obligations of the management companies where the pension fund is not suitable for the profile of the supplier or does not identify the risks. With this proposal we also transpose the directive on occupational pension plans which harmonise rules at European level, in particular for transfers of pension plans between companies from different Member States. To this end, procedures are clarified, enhanced safeguards, rules for cooperation and information sharing are laid down, in particular among supervisors in the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the bill we present here takes measures to increase the robustness of this sector, strengthen governance mechanisms, ensure more and better information and increase transparency. With regard to the legal regime applicable to investment fund managers and credit fund managers, the proposal that we present is the final stage of the review of the supervisory regime for these companies. In 2019, we reviewed the Prudential Regime which simplified rules, concentrated powers and gave the Securities Market Commission ( CMM ) the competences of prudential and behavioral supervision. The amendment to the scheme ended with entropies and the CMVM began to monitor financial soundness, assess suitability and monitor compliance with the rules. Therefore, this is undoubtedly another step in building confidence in the financial system. What we are now proposing to this House is to update the sanctions regime applied to societies managing prudential rules, an initiative that strengthens the sanctions framework; it simplifies, by harmonizing the sanctions regime, which is the same as for other offences on the securities market; it strengthens, by expressly typifying the illegals for non-compliance with rules that were previously dispersed, and which further strengthens by exacerbating, in various cases and conditions, sanctions for the practice of illegals. This will in particular be the case in serious counter-ordinations, the fines of which may amount to EUR 2, EUR 5 million, when they were previously limited to EUR 1, EUR 5 million. The very serious counter-ordinations will be punished with fines up to EUR 5 million. This is therefore an initiative to simplify and strengthen our financial system, which reduces the complexity and regulatory inefficiencies, gives the supervisors capacity, means and powers, but also brings greater responsibility to the supervisor in this case to the Securities Market Committee. That is what our citizens deserve, and that is what they all demand. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u42	You have the floor, for an intervention on behalf of the Social Democratic Party, Mr Eduardo Teixeira.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u43	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Under-Secretary of State and Finance, Mr State Secretary for Tax Affairs: Today we have under consideration two Government Bills presented in this Legislation, paragraph 1 / XIV, which aims to transpose the European Directive 2016 / 2341 into a new legal regime of pension funds and their management entities, and paragraph 8 / XIV adapting the sanctions schemes provided for in the legal regimes applicable to investment fund managers and credit fund managers companies. In the first document in question, the Government comes — with more than one year's delay, Mr Secretary of State! — transposing the European Directive which should have been transposed as has already been done by other Member States, in most cases by 13 January 2019, in order to strengthen the supervisory powers of the CMVM ( the Committee on the Market in Securities) and the ASF ( the Insurance Supervisory Authority and Pension Funds ) over pension funds, with a new governance model and new requirements for the use of depositors. We receive from the Committee on Budgets and Finance, from the ASF and the DECO ( Portuguese Consumer Defence Association) written requests which we consider relevant and which should be assessed in part and considered in the specialty. We believe, however, that the application of this European Directive to Portugal, as regards the pension fund, gives access to more transparent, clearer and relevant information to workers' participants and beneficiaries. Furthermore, some barriers and limitations to the commissions applied to transfers by equalization to the reform savings plans are necessary, thus ensuring that supervisors are better tools to supervise the sector. However, it should go further in the system of capitalisation and individualization of contributions over a whole contribution career, through pension funds. As regards the second diploma, on the sanctions schemes, according to the technical note of the services of the Assembly of the Republic, annexed to the report of which I was rapporteur, it would be appropriate to make an assessment in the specialty, taking into account the matters under consideration, introducing, with transparency, at the end of the title, not only pension funds, but also the general scheme of collective investment bodies, venture capital, social entrepreneurship, specialized investment, the legal system of appropriation and the securities code. Moving the Government, in this way, into financial supervisory models, passing powers from one to the other, where is the proposal that the PS provided in its 2015 electoral programme, a single supervisory entity with less associated costs? Or the change they wanted later in 2018 from the creation of a single dome: the national board of supervisors? Are you waiting for Mário Centeno's departure for supervision? In any case, we do not oppose the diplomas proposed by the Government today, because we generally consider them to be positive vis-à-vis those in force and derive from European directives. However, we believe that they lack improvement...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u44	Sir, I wanted to ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u45	...and consulting entities. That would be timely. thus, the PSD will abstain from voting generally, in order to ensure the sustainability of the reform system, but intends to involve unions and employers in hearings concerning the documents under consideration. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u46	Mr Duarte Alves of the CFP now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u47	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : The Directive transposed by the Proposal for a Law No 1 / XIV / 1. it is part of the European Union's set of guidelines to deepen the European market for occupational pension plans, enhancing cross-border management of pension funds and greater liberalisation of investment policy, thus becoming very dependent on the actions of managers. For the CFP, pension funds cannot be treated as a banal financial product and that is what makes this directive. The highest governance requirements and requirements for the various pension fund managers, especially managers, auditors and actuaries, could be seen as positive aspects, but for the CFP, the problem lies in the basic objective of this directive: the possibility of management and the place of deposit of pension funds being channelled outside the country. Pension funds are also instruments for the dynamisation of the national economy resulting from the investment criteria. With this direction of financing and the creation of a European pension fund market, there is no guarantee of national management interests. We also point out our opposition to the introduction, to the ride of this transposition, of the possibility of an equivalent mechanism, alternative to the Labour Compensation Fund, to be financed through pension funds, which distorts the rights of workers. With regard to Bill No 8 / XIV / 1. the, which essentially transfers the supervisory powers over investment fund and credit holding funds to the MVC, the CFP considers, once again, that the problem is not so much whether it is the Banco de Portugal or the MVC which supervises certain types of companies, but rather the independent supervisory model, which, in its entirety, has revealed its ineffectiveness. Whether the Banco de Portugal or the CMVM, what is needed is to ensure that the responsible entity has the possibility to verify the actual origin and ownership of natural persons who participate and control these funds, not admitting in Portugal any fund manager companies based in or originating in tax havens. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u48	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr Nuno Sá, of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u49	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: The pension system is based on three pillars, the Pillar I being the Social Security System or the General Pension Fund ; Pillar II being the Supplementary Pension System and Pillar III being the products of individual investment pensions. With these legislative initiatives, the Government gives legal form to a new scheme for the establishment and operation of pension funds and pension fund managers by transposing the IORP Directive ( institutions for occupational withdrawal provision ), and equates the regulatory framework applicable to pension funds to other investment products available on the financial markets, and the pension funds were the sector of the financial markets that needed to be changed, following the changes introduced in the previous legislation. These initiatives also move forward with the adaptation of the sanction schemes applicable to investment fund managers and credit institution managers. IORP II Directive, transposed by the bill, focuses on Pillar II, but we have found that the Government has been able to update the legislation in force, in particular Decree-Law No 12 / 2006 of 20 January, which combines the regulation of Pillars II and III. This option is timely and is seen because it is necessary to ensure the level of demand and competitiveness of the regulation of Pilar III products with other competing products, such as investment funds or life insurance products. The Law proposals under consideration meet the new challenges of the pension funds sector and the financial instruments sector, which has followed a path of progressive relevance to citizens and businesses. In the previous legislation, the Socialist Party achieved the stabilization of the banking system and carried out the revision of structural diplomas of the financial sector and the capital market. The Government once again demonstrates its ability to comply with the new requirements and to present the relevant initiatives for the safety and development of the market in capital and financial products because, with these diplomas, the Government of the Socialist Party pursues a path of consolidation and enhancement of the financial system by strengthening regulation, better supervision, more integration and consumer protection. In addition, the solutions enshrined in the legal regime applicable to pension funds and their managing entities are also updated in the light of the developments in the pension funds sector and the acquired supervisory experience in order to align with the legal system of access and the exercise of the insurance and reinsurance activity. All this improves — and I shall finish, Mr President — the financial system, in particular the pension sector, with very positive effects for citizens, investors and customers, as this diploma promotes good governance, imposes duties, protects rights, requires fitness, increases guarantees, strengthens supervision and increases transparency. We have recorded the intervention of the PSD, its concern with the speed in...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u50	Mr. Deputy warned me he was going to finish, but...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u51	I even end with a challenge to the PSD, to, in the field of expertise, with the speed that you have shown here to want, we will finish the work. We are open to all proposals to pursue the objectives of these diplomas. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u52	You have the floor to speak on this point, Mrs Mariana Mortágua.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u53	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: There are essentially two models to structure the pension systems in society, which are the capitalisation system, where there are huge financial funds that will finance future pensions, and that of distribution, in which today's contributions to pay pensions are financed. The advantage of the distribution model is the fact that it is solidarity between the different generations and solidarity intragenerations. That is why the whole contribution system makes an effort to correct labour market inequalities when it increases low pensions slightly above inflation and increases the rest at the inflation rate. The second advantage of the distribution model is to protect pensioners from inflation, because the financial funds are not losing value over time, and above all to protect from the moods of the financial markets. In 2008 private pension funds in OECD countries ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ) lost 23 % of their value, i.e. equivalent to $5.4 billion. Imagine what it would be like to tell a pensioner in 2008 that a quarter of his pension had been lost in financial markets! In 2018, these investment funds managed 74 trillion dollars worldwide and 18 trillion are in the three hundred largest pension funds. Pension funds are the financial markets and that is why insurers, banks, investment funds want to promote a transition from public systems to private systems. This is your business and pensions are the assets you want to manage. As a transition from a public capitalisation system to a private system is too expensive and implies pension loss, all these actors have unfolded in lobbying activities to develop and promote complementary private pension systems. The best example of this is the creation of a European RPP (reform saving plan), followed by BlackRock, which is the largest investment and pension fund in the world, having lobbyed with European institutions. Therefore, this initiative can improve market rules, it can improve transparency rules, it can give more powers to regulators, it can even reduce committees on RPPs and pension funds, but what is being done here is to encourage the private pension market to deliver billions of workers' contributions to private financial funds. This is all that is being dealt with and done by creating a false sense of security, telling people: "Your money is safe, because there is one more regulation, one more rule of transparency." But this is all about: pensions for workers to be managed by private systems. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the directive is very clear on its purposes.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u54	Mrs. Deputy, you want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u55	Finally, Mr President, saying that the Left Block will naturally vote against this initiative, bearing in mind that there are already complementary public pension and capitalisation systems. In addition to what has already been said, I would like to say that one aspect of this directive is to put workers' pensions in order to ensure compensation for the same workers in the event of dismissal. That is, of course, not acceptable. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u56	The Bureau does not register new entries for interventions concerning these Bills, so we move on to the third item on the agenda, which consists of the discussion of the Bill No 7 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Harmonizes and simplifies certain rules in the system of value added tax in intra-Community trade by transposing Directives ( EU ) Nos 2018 / 1910 and 2019 / 475. To that end, you have the floor on behalf of the Government, Mr. Secretary of State for Tax Affairs, Mr. Antonio Mendonça Mendes.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u57	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Through this bill, we are implementing two directives. The first includes the Italian municipality of Campione d’ Italia and the Italian waters of Lake Lugano in the customs territory of the European Union, the second, most significant, makes an amendment to the VAT rules (value added tax ), with a view to simplifying the operation of this tax in cross-border and intra-Community transactions and also combating fraud in this tax, which according to studies by the European Commission, VAT(value-added tax) gap is currently around EUR 150 million. What we do, through this proposed law and the transposition of the directive, is this simplification through three essential measures in clarifying the role of the tax identification number for VAT purposes, which is no longer a formal condition to become a substantial condition. It is also clear that there is no double taxation or double non-taxation in the treatment of chain operations and, finally, the system of sales is simplified. I am at the disposal of the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, for some matter you want to put.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u58	Mr Alberto Fonseca, from the PSD, has the floor for an intervention. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u59	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries : The Community Directives under discussion in December 2018 and February 2019 aim at harmonising and simplifying VAT in intra-Community trade, also in order to combat tax fraud, as the Secretary of State has well mentioned. Although we know that the PS is not often on the Portuguese side, as we have seen in the last week, we agreed that the subject here is relatively simple, even more so for the government, which boasts of the Simplex and wants to put the idea that it is next to the companies but once again has made life difficult for businesses and entrepreneurs, creating many doubts and an emptiness for several weeks. The directives should have been transposed to enter into force on 1 January — which has already happened in the overwhelming majority of the countries of the European Union — but we are already in mid-February and in Portugal we are still discussing them. Question: What has the Government been doing all this time, not to the point of not having done any hearing or annexed any study, document or opinion that have substantiated the submission of the bill? If this is the case of a government that wants to bet on the economy, then I don't know what not bet on the economy! Even at the last hearing of Mr Mário de Finanças — Mário Centeno, The Cactivador, who could soon be Mário Centeno, The Desertor, had the opportunity to question the problem of stagnation of competitiveness and the lack of measures in the State budget to combat it. In his long response, he had the opportunity to speak of everything: the lack of investment in rail in the last 100 years, in the increase in the qualification of young people, when compared to the 1980s; finally, he spoke of everything less than what the government has done in the last four years and what he wants to do this year. As a rule, the PSD is in favour of all simplifications and also of combating fraud and tax evasion, but I cannot fail to take advantage of the government's presence to question the application of these directives, especially the first directive. Most likely due to doubts and complaints from taxpayers, the Tax Authority has been obliged to issue an order to clarify the implementing regulation — which, as we know, is of direct application — before even the law is published, but there are still some concerns, in particular, if the transport is made by the seller himself, it becomes somewhat bureaucratic to prove the transaction, in particular because there is no transport document — for example, a CMR (road haulage letter) — much less an invoice or receipt of such transport and the document issued by a notary will certainly not be a solution to current exports. Another of the concerns we have concerns is the deadline for submitting the customer's statement, which is 10. the day of the following month, which is quite short, in particular for cases where there may be clustering of the goods, when it is used to several suppliers, not knowing the exporter the exact date of exit of the goods. These are some of the concerns we have. We would like to know what the government thinks and did about it, because companies need time to adapt and that's what they don't have. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u60	Mr Duarte Alves of the CFP spoke for one speech. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u61	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : The Bill No. 7 / XIV / 1. a, of the Government, transposes two European directives. One of them concerns the consideration of the Italian enclave of Campione d'Italia and its waters in the customs territory of the European Union for VAT purposes, at the request of the Italian Republic, to avoid unfair competition between the economic operators established in Switzerland and in that Italian municipality, and that is why we must not object. The other Directive concerns the VAT system in intra-Community trade in goods. The proposal makes the identification number a substantive condition for the application of the VAT exemption scheme, establishes harmonised criteria for the transmission of goods in chains and creates a system for the sale of goods to the storage of goods in intra-Community transfers of goods. On these amendments in particular, we have nothing to object to either. However, we draw attention to the fact that there are still practical impediments to the application of the VAT system in intra-Community transactions which harm Portuguese companies and other countries in southern Europe in the face of the great powers of Europe. Not in this directive but in others on the same subject, new bureaucrats are still being introduced, that the maximum example is the requirement for confirmation, through a notary, of the arrival of the goods to the Member State of destination. Whether the VAT scheme is in other fields, the Government must take a position to defend the interests of the national economy against all the mechanisms designed in Brussels to benefit the large powers and their businesses. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u62	For an intervention, Mr Fernando Anastácio of the Socialist Party now has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u63	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: As already mentioned here, today we are considering the Bill No 7 / XIV / 1. the, which aims to harmonise and simplify certain rules in the system of value added tax in intra-Community trade, transposing two directives which have already been referred to here. In particular, the purpose of these Directives is to amend, from January 2020, the VAT regime in intra-Community transactions, as well as the Tax Code on Added Value and the Special Consumption Tax Code, with regard to these types of transactions. On this point, I would add that there is the Socialist Party — and we believe that it is also the other parties — that the whole availability should, as a matter of specialty, trigger a process as quickly as possible in order to resolve this issue and to ensure that the directives come into force in the domestic legal order as soon as possible, taking into account that they are in the context of matters relating to intra-Community transactions, I repeat, within the scope of the Tax Code on Added Value and the Code of Special Consumption Taxes. The purpose of one of the directives, as mentioned above, is to implement three concrete measures, which have already been referred to here, but which I will not fail to repeat, in particular, the creation of the tax number, which will allow the articulation and clarification of intra-Community action operations. Another objective, which is included in the context of chain operations, is the elimination of situations of non-taxation or double taxation in respect of these transactions, as well as the simplification of the system of sales in storage, thus finding the most appropriate mechanisms. In short, one of the European directives — and I am no longer referring to the other, because it is not relevant to us in this matter — makes it a matter of harmonisation and simplification of intra-Community VAT, which we are concerned and very pleased with. It is also noted that it aims to clarify some aspects of the treatment of chain operations. We therefore recognise the importance of being able to do this work as a specialist in order, in fact, to ensure the entry into force of the directive. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u64	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, having no further entries for intervention on this point, we will move on to point 4 of our agenda, the announcement of Bill No 2 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Transposition of Commission Delegated Directive ( EU ) 2019 / 369 of 13 December 2018 in order to include new psychoactive substances in the definition of drugs by introducing the twenty-fourth amendment to Decree-Law No 15 / 93 of 22 January approving the legal regime applicable to the trafficking and consumption of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances. There was no time for discussion on this item on the agenda. We will move on to point 5, last and last of the order of business, of which the assessment of Petition No 603 / XIII / 4. a ( Ricardo André de Castro Pereira et al.) — They request the adoption of measures with a view to correcting the monthly declarations of remuneration of all teachers hired with incomplete schedules, together with the Lein Projects 85 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Accounting for days of service for the social protection of teachers placed in incomplete hours and 97 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Special scheme for accounting for the working time of teachers in incomplete hours, in general. To present the legislative initiative of the Left Block, Mrs Joana Mortagua has the floor. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u65	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Left Block presents a bill on the accounting of days of service provided by teachers hired with incomplete hours for social protection purposes. Every year there are thousands of hired teachers and teachers who are placed in hours less than 22 hours of schooling. This placement does not stem from the will or convenience of teachers, due to the need for schools and the construction of timetables. From 2011 onwards, these teachers, who have always had the right to see accounts for 30 days for contributions and discounts for social security, saw their schedules equal in part-time and ceased to be counted 30 days for access to social benefits, even though they spend the whole year at school. According to the new calculation made and after many confusions with the various arithmetics, a teacher who in his career only gets hours of 11 hours of schooling reaches 40 years of discounts when he is 80 years old. This injustice is a mistake: the idea that it is possible to compare part time with incomplete time. The mistake is to think that there are teachers at part-time and thus harm teachers in access to reform and access to social benefits, such as unemployment benefit. It is not possible to compare because, despite these teachers have fewer hours of educational component—and therefore also receive less pay—in the non-formal component they are available for school all the time. They are available for meetings, for support to students and for all activities for which the school calls them. More: If a time comes higher than the one that fits them in competition, these teachers will not be able to accept it. This project that the Left Block here presents only seeks recognition of a reality that stems from the Statute of the Teaching Career and wants to give these teachers the right to a contributing career. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this is not a technical detail, it is not a technical issue, it is a political problem, because while these teachers are denied basic rights there is a lack of teachers of many disciplines in schools throughout the country, and in most of their hours incomplete. There are students without a teacher who are not second grade students. However, what the system tells teachers is that there are teachers of second grade. What is asked of these precarious teachers is that they move to the Serpa, Almodóvar or Santiago do Cacem to have a reduced salary, without the right to link and give them a hole in their contribution career.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u66	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u67	I will finish, Mr. President. The budgetary impact of this measure is very low. It is only a matter of recognizing the rights of teachers with incomplete hours that meet the permanent needs of schools and of beginning to solve the problem of the lack of teachers that Portugal has and that it is impossible to solve if it is not with the recognition of respect for rights and justice that is due to all teachers, with complete or incomplete schedules, linked or precarious. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u68	For an intervention, Mrs Ana Mesquita of the CFP has the floor. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u69	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP begins by complimenting the more than 5000 petitioners who addressed the Assembly of the Republic on this situation of incomplete schedules. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, by 2030 more than half of the teachers will retire. There is a lack of teachers in various disciplines. They are less and less students who want to be teachers and the reasons are more than many. As if the enormous blockage in career access was no longer reached, there is also the wrong accounting of the hours of service of teachers hired with incomplete schedules for accounting for the period of guarantee and access of social benefits. 5480 teachers are currently in this situation, a situation whose resolution is of low budgetary impact. Why, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, infernating life to these people and moving more people away from teaching in our country? We say and we will continue to repeat it: incomplete hours are not the same as part time. The full-time recruitment scheme provided for in the Staff Regulations of the Teacher Career makes it impossible to apply the part-time recruitment scheme to which the Labour Code refers. These teachers are called for the same group, department, evaluation meetings as any other full-time teacher. A time is complete or incomplete in relation to the educational component, because, as regards the non-formal component, there can be no such distinction about the nature of the time. These teachers are summoned to the service of the non-lethal component at any time and at any time of the hours of operation of the school, to which they may not be missing for no valid reason. These teachers have a time imposed by direction, scattered on both shifts and that can change every month, to each new placement in the recruitment reserve, which reinforces this exclusiveness in relation to the Ministry of Education. In fact, it is not a part-time schedule. These teachers cannot even terminate the contract after the experimental period. The truth, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is that during the whole school year, they open vacancies with full, larger hours, but teachers who are already in place are prevented from competing under the Statute of the Teaching Career, and, above all, adding to this situation, they cannot have 30 days a month declared to social security. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, at the moment, there are teachers hired under a time accumulation regime of more than 16 hours in two schools, which do not see the corresponding working time for social security purposes. If they were in one school, they would be able to reach the accounting of 30 days, but in this case they are not counted 30 days for the purposes of access to social benefits. These teachers cannot be prevented from reaching the 360 working days accounted for in social security in each calendar year by an administrative conversion by the Government of a year of work in half a dozen working months declared to social security. These teachers were in schools and deserve that time to be fully counted. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u70	The next intervention was Mrs Bebiana Cunha of the NAP. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u71	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, we would like to welcome the citizens and citizens who bring this issue to the House of Democracy. In fact, the hiring of teachers has specific characteristics. Unlike other public professionals, whose working hours are clearly defined, teachers are included in the group of professionals who, annually or several times a year, are subject to changes in the hours corresponding to the educational component of their work. But this is not an option for teachers. The distribution of schedules is something that does not depend on them, insofar as they have to accommodate the needs of each school. The variability and time flexibility associated with this profession limit the possibility of other parallel professional activities, since teachers, even being free of their educational component, must be available at school time through their non-formal component. in this sense, it is not comparable the professional teaching exercise with part-time work, which can be provided only a few days per week, per month or per year, and the number of working days should be established by agreement. We therefore recall that, in national competitions, teachers are required to compete at full-time times and, therefore, the principle of part-time workers, which allows them to have either set the time at departure or the possibility of moving to another more advantageous job or time at the same time, does not apply here. The discounts of teachers with incomplete hours for social security have been made as if part-time work were being dealt with, which is incorrect in the light of applicable rules. On the other hand, there has also been accounting only for leisure time, not counting non-leaving time, although teachers have to be available in that period. The government has not yet warned about this situation of teachers, including a mathematical formula that considers only the 22 working days per month, when, for social security, every month has 30 days. In the past legislature, the NAP has accompanied all projects aimed at resolving this injustice and will continue to act towards the resolution of a situation that is of the most elementary justice. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u72	The next intervention is for Mrs Carla Madureira of the PSD Parliamentary Group. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u73	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by welcoming the signatories and promoters of this petition, which aims at correcting monthly statements of teachers' salaries contracted with incomplete hours. I also address a special compliment to all those who, year after year, are the result of the specific circumstances of the hiring of teachers, who perform their duties with incomplete hours. The Social Democratic Party, sensitive to the inequalities that these professionals were and are still subject to, presented in the last legislature a draft resolution recommending to the Government the fair and proportionate accounting of every day declared by teachers, regardless of whether they result from work in a single educational institution or in more than one, and the harmonization of school procedures regarding the calculation of working days to be declared for social security purposes. The Assembly of the Republic approved by a large majority this initiative of the PSD, to which the Socialist Party did not join. Although some progress has been made, the PSD believes that, in this dossier and in this petition, there will be issues that need to work and deepen, in order to ensure more justice and fairness to these teachers, so as not to harm their future and access, for example, social benefits. This is a matter of the clear sphere of government competence. A government that continues to fail with the teachers and with the school. A government that invests in facilitation but does not invest in works in schools. In schools, equipment is switched off and there are obsolete computers. Missing staff, closing the school gates. Strikes and protests happen. The Minister of Education is still absent and facing the side. The government disappoints the teachers, and if it persists in not correcting the unequal treatment in relation to those who are hired with incomplete schedules the most likely is that there are fewer teachers available to fill vacancies with reduced hours and that we have even more students without classes. Therefore, it is time for the Government to undertake to ensure fair treatment of these professionals, remedying the inequities and situations that persist with teachers placed with incomplete schedules, many of which are reflected in the petition we are considering today. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u74	The next intervention will be by Mr Eduardo Barroco de Melo, of the Socialist Party. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u75	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Bureau, Members of Parliament and Dear Members: The PSD bench tried to turn this discussion, which is about our public education service, into another debate, but forgot when it stopped works in schools or when there was no money or toilet paper in schools. at that time, it was all right with the education service! Open... [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr President, the Socialist Party's bench would like to greet the petitioners first. Moreover, the Socialist Party welcomes the use of all mechanisms available to citizens to participate in the public debate, so these are our first words in this debate. The petition calling on us for this debate was delivered at the Assembly of the Republic in March of last year, with the aim of challenging the rules in force for the declaration of the working time of teachers with incomplete hours, i.e. those who have less than 22 or 25 hours a week. This claim is, in fact, addressed in the Lein Projects 85 / XIV / 1. a, the Left Block, and 97 / XIV / 1. the Portuguese Communist Party, which proposes that any teacher, regardless of exercising this function temporarily, be counted a time of 30 days for the effects foreseen in the declaration of working time. Now, the central argument, both the petitioners and the proponents, is based on the idea that teachers with incomplete hours are, in fact, full-time workers who fill the rest of the time with non-lethal activities.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u76	Assent in the Statute of the Teaching Career!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u77	But this argument in Decree-Law No 132 / 2012, which regulates competitions for the selection and recruitment of teaching staff and which provides that the non-formal component is proportional to the number of hours of the educational component, which does not correspond to a full-time schedule, as the proponents say. [[Protests by BE MP Joana Mortagua and PCP MP Ana Mesquita.]] In fact, the same diploma also states that the monthly salary of teachers is precisely the result of the calculation of the hours of the two components, both academic and non-formal, of their work. Hence, from here it is concluded that the equality between teachers with incomplete hours and teachers with full hours is disproposed, since it is not similar for worktime purposes... [[Protests by PCP MP Ana Mesquita.]] Madam Member, I have heard your speech and thank you for doing the same with regard to me.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u78	Don't be bureaucratic! The problem is political!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u79	Mr President, there are no conditions for this intervention. [[In the meantime, President Eduardo Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u80	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to keep quiet.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u81	Therefore, not being similar situations, they obviously cannot be equated. We understand that the petitioners have this claim because they delivered their petition in March of last year. But it is not understood that the tenderers are unaware of the implementation agreements of the State Budget for 2019, which were adopted only in June of last year, which regulate this situation and clarify the differences that existed from the point of view of the interpretation of the law. In fact, contrary to what Mrs Ana Mesquita said, at 16 hours at this time, and after the implementation of the rules for the implementation of the State budget, it is already a 30-day accounting. The Portuguese population would not understand that the Assembly of the Republic not only considered the same things as it also hurt the principle of equality, treating in different ways teachers and non-teachers who do not have full hours in their schools. Therefore, the Socialist Party does not follow these projects, because they ignore the legislation in force and intend not to contribute to a better school but rather to create a situation of injustice in Portuguese schools. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u82	Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Greens has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u83	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Every school year, in view of the organization of the education system and the hourly burden attributed to each discipline in each educational institution, many teachers are placed in hours with a number of hours lower than the so-called full hours. However, these teachers, in addition to providing for the needs of schools in a precarious way—a situation which, in large part, drags on for many years, in which they are hired annually—are still subject to the allocation of incomplete hours, not by their own will, but because the desire and the need to legitimately find a placement, even with a lower wage, so obliges. It happens that, not enough of their working precariousness, these teachers are still faced with another issue, not of lesser importance, since until 2011 these incomplete hours were recognized as equivalent to full hours for the purposes of the time declared to social security as days of service provided. From that date on, however, it became clear from some schools that social benefits due to those teachers should be applied the scheme which governed the Code of Contributing Regimes of the Preventive System of Social Security, which defined that «times are declared in days, regardless of the activity being rendered full-time or part-time», which corresponds to the declaration of a working day for each set of six hours. In other words, the part-time recruitment regime has been applied to teachers, which is totally incorrect and, in our view, unfair, because teachers do not exercise part-time teaching but, rather, with incomplete schedules, in which their educational and non-formal hours of establishment are recorded, in a total of 35 hours. Thus, the educational component is mainly intended for teaching, with compulsory presence, and the non-formal component is intended for the preparation of classes, meetings, training and work of the individual component, and consists of a part of not more than 150 minutes, marked at the time. The educational component may be complete or incomplete, but non-formal is always due to availability for full-time service, so it is of the most basic justice that these teachers are applied to the accounting of working time corresponding to 30 days per month, for the purposes of declaration as to the Code of Contributions of the Preventive Social Security System. Therefore, in view of what has been said, the Greens follow the legislative initiatives that have been brought to this debate on the basis of a petition signed by thousands of citizens, which, on behalf of the Greens, are to be welcomed.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u84	With no further inscriptions, we are finishing this item on the agenda. We shall now proceed to the vote on the Rules of Procedure, and I ask the honourable Members to do so. Members who register electronically for quorum purposes, as soon as the system is prepared for that. In the meantime, Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha has several announcements to make. Please, Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u85	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, information that they gave entered the Bureau, and were admitted, Resolution Projects Nos 243 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government comply with the conditions of agricultural workers in the Perimeter de Rega do Mira with the fundamental principles patented in the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, which falls to 11. the Commission, in connection with 7. a and 13. a Commissions, 244 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of measures to combat obesity by means of health promotion and disease prevention actions that support healthy lifestyles, which falls to 9. the Commission, 245 / XIV / 1. a ( IL) — Due to the proximity to access to the medicinal product, which falls to 9. the Commission, 246 / XIV / 1. a ( IL) — For the sustainability of access to the medicinal product, which falls to 9. the Commission, 247 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — The creation of a working group that promotes the monitoring of the law that determines the end of the slaughter and the creation of the national strategy for errant animals, which falls to 7. the Commission, 248 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Ensure a National Quality Health Service, which falls to 9. the Commission, 249 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Suspension of expansion of Humberto Delgado Airport, which falls to 6. the Commission, in connection with 11. the Commission, 250 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends to the Government the nationalisation of TTCs, which goes down to 6. the Commission, 251 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — By regulating cabin crew activity, with a view to reducing the wear resulting from the activity and ensuring the safety and health conditions at work, which falls to 10. the Commission, in connection with 6. the Commission, 252 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recommends to the Government that it overcome the labour problems in the surveillance and cleaning sector, which falls to 10. the Commission, 253 / XIV / 1. a ( CFP ) — Recommends that the Government extend the public response to palliative care, which falls to 9. the Commission, 254 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recommends to the Government the creation of a career as a single collective transport agent, which falls to 13. the Commission, 255 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of cross-border and integrated birth support and incentive measures which fall to 10. the Commission, 256 / XIV / 1. a ( IL) — By extending palliative care, which falls to 9. the Commission, and 257 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recommends the creation and operation by the Government of a centralized programme for the recovery of second dwellings in municipalities affected by large forest fires or other exceptional events, which falls to 7. the Commission, in connection with 13. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u86	Thank you very much, Secretary. In the meantime, we will confirm the quorum for discussion to proceed with the vote. We've found that there are Mr. Members who, for any reason, have not been able to register electronically, so they will have to signal to the Bureau that they are present. [[Pause.]] The presences recorded in the electronic table are added to those of the Members. Deputies Carlos Brás, Miguel Matos and Sonia Fertuzinhos, PS, and Duarte Alves, PCP, which makes a total of 208 Members. We therefore have an appropriate quorum to vote. Let's start with Vote No 174 / XIV / 1. a ( submitted by the PSD ) — regretting the death of Eng.o Álvaro Barreto, which Mr Duarte Pacheco will do the favor of reading.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u87	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « It was with great regret that the Assembly of the Republic received, on 10 February, the news of the death of Eng.o Álvaro Roque de Piinho Bissaia Barreto, at the age of 84. With a life dedicated to the development, competitiveness and progress of Portugal, Álvaro Barreto was a learned and multifaceted man, with a remarkable intervention over several decades in the civic, business and political plane. Graduated in Civil Engineering, Álvaro Barreto has built a vast and experienced professional journey, leaving its brand of competence and business vision in some of the most important national companies and thus contributing to the affirmation and consolidation of the Portuguese economy. Vision and experience that has been able to transport in an exemplary way to political life, to which it has always printed a vision of reformist realisation and credibility. Historically militant of the Social Democratic Party and Member of the Assembly of the Republic, however, it was as governor that Álvaro Barreto most pointed out, from the end of the 1970s to the mid-2000s. Integrou seven Constitutional Governments : as Minister of Industry and Technology in Government led by Carlos Mota Pinto ; Minister of Industry and Energy in Government led by Francisco Sá Carneiro ; Minister of European Integration in Government led by Francisco Pinto Balsamão ; Minister of Commerce and Tourism in Government led by Mário Soares ; Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food in Governments led by Aníbal Cavaco Silva, and finally Minister of State, Economics and Labour in Government led by Pedro Santana Lopes. Meeting in plenary session, the Assembly of the Republic pays its tribute to the memory of Eng.o Álvaro Barreto, addressing its sense of sorrow to family and friends. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u88	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Let's vote. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the CH was recorded.]] We now have Vote No 175 / XIV / 1. a ( submitted by BE and subscribed by a PS member ) — Despite the death of Zuraida Soares. Mr Pedro Filipe Soares is going to read this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u89	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « He died on February 8, 2020 Zuraida Maria de Almeida Soares. Zuraida Soares was born in Lisbon on 26 July 1952. He was a mother of four. In adolescence, it was located in the city of Espinho, where it completed secondary studies. He graduated in Philosophy and later graduated in Education Sciences and graduated in Contemporary and Medieval Philosophy. Since early on, he has been engaged in civic and political intervention. At the university, he was involved in the anti-fascist struggle, which created disappointments with the PIDE. In Braga, where he lived an important part of his life, he was the founder of the Arc-Iris Association, an association to which he was to preside. It is close to party policy and adheres to policy XXI, being one of the founders of the Left Block. After a course as a high school teacher, he arrived at the Azores in 1995 to teach at the University of Azores. Years later, he took the lead of the Community Support Centre for the Immigrant of the Cresaceor. In 1998 it was one of the main faces in the Autonomous Region of the Azores of the struggle for the decriminalization of voluntary interruption of pregnancy in the referendum of that same year. At the time, she was persecuted, even being brutally assaulted one night at the door of her house. That, however, did not bring her back to silence, nor did it prevent her from continuing her struggle. In the Left Block he was the Coordinator of the Regional Commission, he joined the National Bureau and the Political Commission. Autonomist convinced, defended that the Azorian constitutional autonomy is a ‘delegate daughter of democracy’ and has always fought for its deepening. It was the first Member elected by the Left Block to the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of the Azores, where he was parliamentary for three term. He finished his last intervention in the Azorian Parliament with a phrase that summarizes his way of life: ‘There is nothing more colourful and forceful to life than fighting for a society more worthy, more democratic, more human, more tolerant, more decent, and, above all, a society and a land without masters’. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its regret at the death of Zuraida Soares and expresses its grief to its relatives and friends, and to the Block of the Left. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u90	Thank you very much, Mr. Let's vote this regret vote. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the CH was recorded.]] We proceed with Vote No 176 / XIV / 1. a ( presented by PS ) — I regret the death of Dino Monteiro, which Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha will do the favor of reading.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u91	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « He died in France, Dino Monteiro, founder of the Socialist Party and anti-fascist activist and committed to the implementation of the democratic regime. Born in Lisbon in 1941, he began working at the age of 12. In post-laboratory terms, he studied languages and commercial techniques. Already in France, at 19 years of age, he continued his work and his studies, becoming fluent in six languages. Communist militant for a short time joined the French Socialist Party, where he contacted Mário Soares in 1972. He took up the mission of ‘mail’ with the socialists of the interior, taking advantage of French nationality. Arrested by the PIDE, only the efforts of French diplomacy freed him. Dino Monteiro ordered the purchase of the Portuguese Library of Paris. Because of its generosity, it became a bulwark of Portuguese culture in Paris. Project considered vital by Mário Soares, the Portuguese Library of Paris joined names like Coimbra Martins, Liberto Cruz, Tito de Morais, Rodolfo Crespo, Salgado Zenha, Joaquim Barradas de Carvalho, Raúl Capela and Carlos Monjardino. Dino Monteiro is worthy of fair and public tribute for his contribution to democracy. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its sorrow for the death of Dino Monteiro and transmits its condolences to its relatives and friends, and to the Socialist Party. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u92	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for the vote that has just been read. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the CH was recorded.]] We now have Vote No 177 / XIV / 1. a ( submitted by PS ) — Regret of the death of Fernando Tavares Loureiro. Mrs Alexandra Tavares de Moura, PS, will proceed to the reading of this vote. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u93	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « Born in March 1935, Fernando Tavares Loureiro died last January. Founder, with the number twelve, of the Socialist Party, militant in Oeiras, was resistant to the dictatorship and builder of the first years of Portuguese democratic and party life. Participant in the founding meeting of the party in 1973, in Bad Münstereifel, Germany, Fernando Tavares Loures was, throughout his life, a reference to his party structure, always showing, in the exercise of the most diverse functions, his attachment to the values of democratic socialism and humanism. Doctor and trade unionist of the CGTP-IN, the Union of Doctors of the South Zone and the National Federation of Doctors, the National Council of the CGTP-IN, in the mandates of 1983 - 1986 and 1993 - 1996, and member of the National Council of the CGTP-IN, in the mandates of 1986 - 1989 and 1989 - 1993, its life course has always highlighted belief in the defense of democracy, a stage where it fought for the rights of all. The delivery with which he exerted his civic and political intervention, with total commitment and defense of the values of democracy, is an example and an inspiration for the continuation of the construction of this collective path. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its regret at the death of Fernando Tavares Loureiro and transmits his condolences to his family and friends, and to the Socialist Party. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u94	Thank you, Mrs. Member. Let's vote. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the CH was recorded.]] The following vote No 181 / XIV / 1. a ( presented by PS ) — I regret the death of Professor Malaca Casteleiro, who Mrs.Secretariat Sofia Araújo will do the favor of reading.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u95	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « He died last Friday, February 7, at the age of 83, Professor Malaca Casteleiro, Portuguese professor and linguist of high recognition and national and international merit. Natural de Teixoso, Covilhã, Professor Malaca Casteleiro graduated in Romanic Philology in 1961, having obtained the doctorate in 1979, by the Faculty of Letters of the University of Lisbon, with a dissertation on the syntax of the Portuguese Language. Having been one of the main responsible for the elaboration and negotiation of the 1990 Orthographic Agreement, the open public debate of which was dedicated at various moments of his civic and academic life, was equally noteworthy in his course to the continued defense of the Portuguese Language in the world and in particular the scientific coordination, as assured, of the Dictionary of the Contemporary Portuguese Language, published by the Academy of Sciences of Lisbon. His teaching career for several decades has spread through numerous higher education institutions, with special emphasis on his functions as Professor Professor of the Faculty of Letters of the University of Lisbon, having also served as a guest teacher at the University of Macau and at the University of Beira Interior. During his long and fruitful scientific career, he was a member of the Academy of Sciences of Lisbon and Scientific Counsellor of the National Institute of Scientific Research, being author of a vast bibliography in the areas of the syntax and lexicon of the Portuguese language and still in the field of teaching Portuguese as a foreign language. The recognition of its course was reflected in the award by the French Government of the Order of the Academic Palms Degree, in 1986, in its thanks to the President of the Portuguese Republic with the Grand Official Degree of the Order of the Child D. Henrique, in 2001, and by the award by the Municipal Chamber of the Covilhã da Medalha de Mérito Municipal, in 2001. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic pays tribute to the scientific memory and legacy of Professor Malaca Casteleiro, addressing his sense of sorrow to family and friends and to the various academic institutions to which he over the years dedicated his research and knowledge. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u96	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the CH was recorded.]] We now have Vote No 179 / XIV / 1. a ( presented by CH ) — regretting the death of a user after six hours of waiting in the urgency of the hospital in Lamego, which will be read by Secretary Sofia Araújo.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u97	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary, has thus expressed its deepest regret over the death of another SNS user, addressing his deepest condolences to his family and friends. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u98	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, votes in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP, the PAN and the IL and abstentions of BE, the PCP, the PEV and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u99	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u100	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u101	Mr President, it is to inform that the PS Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u102	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We will move on to Vote No 173 / XIV / 1. a ( presented by the PCP ) — In spite of the victims of Nazi-fascism in the 75 years of liberation by the Soviet army of the Auschwitz concentration camp, which will be read by Secretary Ana Mesquita.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u103	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: “Last January 27, 75 years of the liberation, by the Soviet army, of the Auschwitz concentration camp, where they were murdered — in gas chambers, famine and disease, in rifles and under torture — more than 1 million and 100,000 human beings. As a result of the Nazi policy of extermination, millions of human beings were murdered, including in concentration camps, in their majority Soviet prisoners of war and civilians, Jews and Slavs, among many others. The concentration camps were also slave labor camps at the service of the great German monopolies who played a decisive role in the rise of Hitler and Nazism to power in Germany. Fields where the exploitation of work was taken to the extreme—to death—and where those who were considered unfit for work were cruelly eliminated. when marking this date, it is fair to recall the contribution of the USSR and the Soviet people—who suffered more than 20 million deaths—to victory over Nazism in World War II. 75 years later, it can only be cause of concern and indignation for the emergence in countries in Europe of forces that rehabilitate fascism and glorify collaborators with Nazism, while destroying monuments to the Soviet army and chasing communists and other Democrats. To never repeat the horrors of Auschwitz, Nazi-fascism and war, it is pressing the awareness and mobilization of democrats in defense of peace and truth, rejecting the whitening of fascism, the banalization of fascist ideology, lies and historical falsification. Thus the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary: Recalls and honors the victims of Nazi-fascism, as well as all those who resisted, fought and defeated the Nazi-fascist barbaria at the expense of irreparable sacrifices; It rejected the whitening of fascism, the banalization of fascist ideology and the promotion of fascist chariscist forces. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u104	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and the PSD, the CDS-PP and the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u105	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u106	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u107	Mr President, it is to inform me that I will present a statement of vote on the last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u108	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr António Maló de Abreu has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u109	Mr President, it is to inform us that we will present a statement of vote on the last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u110	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr Telmo Correia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u111	Mr President, it is also to inform us that we will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u112	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u113	Mr President, it is to inform us that we will also present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u114	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Let us now proceed to Vote No 178 / XIV / 1. a ( submitted by PAR and subscribed by PSD and PS Members ) — Despite the fact that the Holocaust Memory Day is being evoked, either will be read by Ms. Maria da Luz Rosinha.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u115	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: “ No one should leave here, for it could lead to the world, along with the brand engraved in the flesh, the terrible news of what man had the courage to do to man in Auschwitz. After 75 years on the day, on January 27, 1945, the liberation by the Soviet Union army of the camp of concentration and Nazi extermination of Auschwitz-Birkenau, Primo Levi's words about the fate of the most one and a half million people who lost their lives there continue to echo in history and to confront the present with the crimes against humanity that marked the end years of the first half of the 20th century. After seven and a half decades, it is, however, with the emphasis that in Europe and the outside world it is evident that the historical record of the success may not have been sufficiently rooted in the collective memory of democracies, when we are confronted with the obvious increase of phenomena of anti-Semitism, racial hatred, homophobia, refusal of the other, whether foreign or different, as we watch the escalation of negationist speeches of the holocaust and the lives of its victims, whose testimony in the first person will, by virtue of the law of time, begin to disappear. In 2020, it is through the example of those who then knew to be up to their values and who all risked and lost that we can inspire ourselves to signal this memory preservation mission. In the year in which 80 years have been recorded about the acts of Aristides of Sousa Mendes, consul in Bordeaux at the time of the Nazi invasion, a major figure of the 20th century Portuguese, right among the nations, must remember and value his refusal to comply with the expressed orders of his superior hierarchicals, placing the dignity and life of thousands of people before any other considerations and opening a road of salvation that allowed so many people and families to escape the horror destinations that Shoah would reserve them. Aristide's acts and life, the light in the darkness that illuminated his contemporaries, can and should continue to serve as a lighthouse in times of new difficulties and challenges for collective memory, demonstrating the value of resistance to injustice and inhumane. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, pays tribute to all the victims of the holocaust, renewing its commitment to prevent forgetting and promoting the education of younger generations in the observance of fundamental values, freedom, equality and human dignity. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u116	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the CH was recorded.]] Mrs. Members, the President of the Assembly of the Republic is associated with all the regrets that have been adopted today. Let's keep a minute of silence. The House kept, standing, a minute's silence. We shall proceed to the vote on vote No 172 / XIV / 1. a ( submitted by IL ) — Congratulations on the 200-year celebrations of the Liberal Revolution in Porto. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP, the IL and the Member of the CDS-PP João Pinho de Almeida and the abstentions of the PSD, the CDS-PP and the Member of the Commission not inscribed Joacine Katar Moreira.]] Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u117	Mr President, it is to announce that we will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u118	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mrs Joacine Katar Moreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u119	Mr President, it is to inform me that I will proceed with the delivery of a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u120	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mrs. Members, we will generally vote on Bill No. 24 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) - Determines the preparation by the Government of an annual report on regional asymmetries in Portugal, prior to the presentation of the State budget, with a view to its presentation to the Assembly of the Republic. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, the CFP, the NAP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD, the CDS-PP and the IL.]] We will vote for draft resolution No. 211 / XIV / 1. a (BE) - Invest in territorial cohesion and combat desertification within the country. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the CDS-PP were rejected in favour of BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the PSD and the IL.]] We will vote for draft resolution No 218 / XIV / 1. a (BE) - Digital Platform in Geographic Information System (SIG). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, the PCP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from PSD, CDS-PP, PAN and IL.]] We will vote for draft resolution No 237 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) - recommends to the Government the implementation of a development plan for the national territory with measures to enhance the interior and to combat the abandonment of the rural world. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the CDS-PP and the IL were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the PSD and the NAP.]] We will vote for draft resolution No 193 / XIV / 1. a (PV) — Adoption of the necessary mechanisms to prevent the purchase of the Media Capital Group by Cofina and to prevent conglomerates in the area of social communication. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP, PAN and IL were rejected and votes against BE, PCP, ENP and MP not registered Joacine Katar Moreira.]] Mr. Marcos Perestrello asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u121	Mr President, I asked for the floor before the vote that was just taken because I was a co-worker of the Cofina Media Group in accordance with Rule 27. that of the Statute of Deputies, I wanted to register a particular interest.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u122	It is recorded, Mr Deputy, and I regret that I have not seen it in due course. Mr Sérgio Sousa Pinto also asked for the floor. To what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u123	Mr. President, it is to record my presence. [[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u124	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Let us then proceed to the vote of Parliamentary Inquiry No 1 / XIV / 1. a (CH) — Establishment of a parliamentary committee to investigate Pedrogão Grande's fraud in the allocation of subsidies. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the ENP were rejected, votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP, the PAN and the IL and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 189 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Amends Decree-Law No 113 / 2013 of 7 August, strengthening the rules of protection and animal welfare in scientific research. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD, BE and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the NAP and abstentions from the PCP, the ENP, the IL and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We will vote for draft resolution No 78 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Valuation of the National Committee for the Protection of Animals Used for Scientific Purposes. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, ENP and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and CDS-PP and IL abstentions.]] We shall vote on the application submitted by the NAP, asking the Committee on Agriculture and the Sea to be discharged without a 60-day vote of draft resolution No 208 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Strengthens animal protection and welfare rules in scientific research. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the CH was recorded.]] The draft resolution is down to 7. the Commission is thus being adversely affected by its general vote. We will now vote for draft resolution No 87 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recommends the adoption of concrete and immediate measures in the field of the use of animals in scientific research. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and IL were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and the CDS-PP abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u125	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u126	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u127	Mr President, that is to say, we will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u128	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We shall proceed with the vote on draft resolution No 233 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — By safeguarding the heritage and rehabilitation of the House of Fisheries in Oeiras ( Lisbon ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the PSD and the IL.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to apologize for the fact that there is a PSD Member who is in the front row, in a place where I am used to seeing the CDS, and every time she gets up I say she is CDS, but she is PSD Member. [[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u129	You better come from orange t-shirt!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u130	I will carefully examine Mr. Deputy's gestures. We will now vote in general on Bill No 190 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Altera o Decree-Law No 75 / 2008 of 22 April approving the regime of autonomy, administration and management of public institutions of pre-school education and basic and secondary education. [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against PS, PSD and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, IL and MP not registered Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We proceed to the vote on Bill No. 192 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Democratic management of pre-school establishments and basic and secondary education.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u131	Mr President, we have submitted a request for a discharge to their committee.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u132	Sir, is the CFP asking for your bill to be brought down to its committee?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u133	Yes, Mr President, we had made a request to draft Law No 192 / XIV / 1. downgrading to its committee for 90 days.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u134	I have no information on the delivery of this request, but I take your words as good.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u135	Mr President, if it has not been distributed, I am now doing so orally.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u136	Therefore, the PCP submits an oral request to the Education, Science, Youth and Sport Committee for a discharge without a 90-day vote of Bill No. 192 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ). Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, does the Commission just have to do with the PCP bill or does it also have to do with the NAP draft resolution?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u137	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u138	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u139	Mr President, we are now in a caricature situation. Normally, bills go down to their committee by related political topic. Now, Bill No. 190 / XIV / 1. a, the Left Block, which would be in this set of low-level initiatives to its committee, without a vote, has just been voted on.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u140	You are right, Mr, but the Bureau has no responsibility, because no written request has been made to you. Thus, the vote on Bill No 190 / XIV / 1 is annulled. a, from BE, and we will vote on the request. Mrs. Members, I would like to ask again whether draft resolution No 206 / XIV / 1. the NAP, on the same subject, is also to be brought down to the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u141	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u142	We will then vote on the oral requests submitted by the BE and the PCP, respectively, to the Education, Science, Youth and Sport Committee, without a vote for 90 days on Bill Nos 190 / XIV / 1. a (BE) — Other or Decree-Law No. 75 / 2008, of 22 April, which approves the regime of autonomy, administration and management of public institutions of pre-school education and basic and secondary education and 192 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Democratic management of pre-school establishments and basic and secondary education. [[When put to the vote, they were adopted unanimously and the absence of the CH was recorded.]] The Bill Nos 190 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) and 192 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) therefore falls to 8. the Commission. Let us now vote for draft resolution No 206 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government evaluate and consider a model for democratic management of public institutions in basic and secondary schools.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u143	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u144	We are in the middle of a vote, Mrs Deputies. I asked whether the legislative initiative of the NAP was also to go down to the Commission and they replied that they did not. They therefore intend that draft resolution No 206 / XIV / 1. Is it the lowering of the commission, too?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u145	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u146	It's good that the ladies. Members in the first row and those in the second row are converging. in this case, we will not vote on the Resolution Project No 206 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) and the same lower than 8. the Commission. We shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 71 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends to the Government the abolition of tolls in A28. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, the PCP, the PEV PAN and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD, the CDS-PP and the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u147	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u148	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u149	Mr President, it is to give the indication that we will present a statement of vote on draft resolution No 206 / XIV / 1. a, of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u150	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u151	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u152	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u153	Mr President, it is only to inform that PSD Members Emília Cerqueira, Eduardo Teixeira and Jorge Mendes will present a statement of vote on draft resolution No 71 / XIV / 1. a ( BE).
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u154	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u155	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u156	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u157	Mr President, it is also to say that I will present a statement of vote, along with Mrs Anabela Rodrigues and Mrs Marina Gonçalves.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u158	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We shall vote on the application submitted by the PS, asking the National Defence Commission to be discharged, without a 60-day vote of the Bill No. 3 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Statute of the Former Combatant. I believe that the Left Block also calls for its legislative initiative to be dropped to the same Commission without a vote, but I do not know whether the PSD also requests it.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u159	It's in the vote script.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u160	Mr President, the PSD also requested the Commission to be discharged without a vote of its draft law.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u161	Mr. Deputies, but we have nothing written. Be registered orally. [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u162	No, Mr. President. Our written request is there, somewhere,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u163	It's somewhere, but not at the table.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u164	...at the Bureau, in the support service... [[It's in the script, page 10.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u165	I'm sorry, 'cause it's my mistake. It is on page 10 of the vote script. You are absolutely right, Mr Adam Silva. With my apologies, we shall then vote on the requests made by the PS, BE, and PSD, respectively, asking for the resignation of the National Defence Commission, without voting for 60 days of the Bill No 3 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) and the Bills Nos 180 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) and 193 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Approves the Statute of the Former Combatant. [[When put to the vote, they were adopted unanimously and the absence of the CH was recorded.]] These legislative initiatives therefore go down to the National Defence Commission without a vote for 60 days. We will move on to the general vote on the Bill No. 1 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves the new legal regime for the establishment and operation of pension funds and pension fund managers, transposing Directive ( EU ) 2016 / 2341. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PS, the PAN and the IL were adopted against the BE, the PCP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] The bill therefore falls to 5. the Commission. Let us now proceed to the general vote on the Bill No 8 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Adapts the sanction schemes provided for in the legal arrangements applicable to investment fund managers and credit institution managers. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PS and the IL were adopted against the BE and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the PSD, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the PAN and the ENP.]] The bill goes down to 5. the Commission. We turn to the general vote on the Bill No 7 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Harmonizes and simplifies certain rules in the system of value added tax in intra-Community trade by transposing Directives ( EU ) 2018 / 1910 and 2019 / 475. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PSD, PAN and IL and abstained from BE, PCP, CDS-PP, ENP and MP not registered Joacine Katar Moreira.]] The bill also goes down to 5. the Commission. We shall now vote, in general, on Law No 2 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Transposition of Commission Delegated Directive ( EU ) 2019 / 369 of 13 December 2018 in order to include new psychoactive substances in the definition of drugs by introducing the twenty-fourth amendment to Decree-Law No 15 / 93 of 22 January approving the legal regime applicable to the trafficking and consumption of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the CH was recorded.]] The bill goes down to 1. the Commission. We will generally vote for Bill No. 85 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Accounting for days of service for the social protection of teachers placed in incomplete hours. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, the CFP, the NAP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD, the CDS-PP and the IL.]] We will generally vote for Bill No. 97 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Special scheme for accounting for the working time of teachers in incomplete hours. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, the CFP, the NAP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD, the CDS-PP and the IL.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 151 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Amendment of the portal on the sharing of formulas for children with an allergy to cow's milk protein ( APLV ). Having been requested by the NAP to vote in points, we began by voting on point (a) of the draft resolution. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the ENP, the IL and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira and the PSD and the NAP abstentions.]] We are now voting on point ( b). [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the CH was recorded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u166	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u167	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u168	Mr President, it is to announce, on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, a statement of vote on the draft resolution which has just been voted on.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u169	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We will vote for draft resolution No. 188 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — For a network of breast milk banks in Portugal and better access to shared alternatives. The request of the PAN and the BE will be put to the vote by points. Let us therefore vote on point 1. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PS and abstentions from the CDS-PP and the IL.]] Let us now vote on point 2. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and BE were rejected, votes against the NAP, the IL and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the PCP, the CDS-PP and the ENP.]] We shall proceed to the vote on point 3. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the CFP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from PSD, BE, CDS-PP and IL.]] Let us finally vote on point 4. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the PCP were rejected in favour of BE, PAN, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD, CDS-PP and ENP.]] We shall now proceed to the electronic vote of the final text presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on various draft amendments to the Rules of Procedure, submitted by the Arrival, the PS, the CDS-PP and the Liberal Initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u170	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u171	Sir, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u172	Mr President, regardless of the vote that will take place, I just wanted to ask the Bureau to consider my presence in the previous votes, since I did not register.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u173	You are present, Mr. José Soeiro. Mrs Alexandra Moura, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u174	Mr President, I wanted to request the same because I was not registered in the previous votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u175	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, these requests should be made only at the end of the vote and not in the middle of the vote, but it is recorded. We shall therefore proceed to the overall final vote of the final text presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on draft Rules of Procedure No 2 / XIV / 1. a ( CH) — Amendment to the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic, eliminating the qualitative difference between the political parties represented in this Assembly, paragraph 3 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Fourth amendment to the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic, No 5 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Fourth amendment to the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic and No 7 / XIV / 1. a ( IL) — Fourth amendment to the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic No 1 / 2007 of 20 August in order to regulate the issue of votes. The adoption of this final text requires an absolute majority of the Members present by means of an electronic vote in accordance with Article 267 ( 4 ). Article 94 ( 4 ) and ( 4 ). the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic ( RAR ). I'm asking the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen who carry on their own button and stand up. [[Having put to the vote, he obtained the votes of the absolute majority of the Members present, with 162 votes in favour (PS, PSD, PCP and PEV) and 28 votes against (BE, CDS-PP, PAN, IL and MP not registered Joacine Katar Moreira).]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u176	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u177	Mr. Cotrim de Figueiredo, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u178	Mr President, I will also present a written statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u179	All right, Mr. Deputies. Be registered. Mrs Joacine Katar Moreira, I believe she is asking for the same word, i.e. to make a statement of vote, so it is recorded. Ladies and gentlemen. Members are in favour of paragraphs 1 to 20 of the Journal on plenary meetings held on 25, 30 and 31 October, 6, 13, 14, 15, 20, 21, 22, 27, 28 and 29 November and 4, 10, 11, 12, 18, 19 and 20 December 2019. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] We also have to vote on an opinion from the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of the Members, which Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha will do well to read.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u180	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in accordance with the request of the Court of Justice of the Comarca de Lisboa, Juiz 3, Case No 2874 / 19.2T9LSB, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Deputies decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mr Jorge Lacão ( PS ) to intervene in the proceedings in the field of the cars in question.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-14.u181	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of our work. It remains to be borne in mind the agenda for the next plenary session, which, as you know, will be next Tuesday at 3 p.m. Thus, from the first item on the agenda, there is the debate with the Prime Minister under Article 224 ( b ). the Rules of Procedure, which means that parliamentary groups will take the initiative of questions. the second point is the preparatory debate of the European Council with the participation of the Prime Minister under Article 4 ( 1 ( a ). the Law of Monitoring and Pronunciation by the Assembly of the Republic in the field of the European Union Construction Process. I wish everyone a good weekend. Yes, the session is closed. [[It was 12 hours and 54 minutes.]]
