ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, Minister for the Environment and Climate Action and Mr. State Secretaries. Let's start our work. [[It was 10 hours and 4 minutes.]] The first item on today's agenda is an urgent debate required by the Left Block Parliamentary Group on climate justice and crisis exit. Before we start the debate, I remember that the quorum is already being checked for the purpose of the legislative votes to be held at the end of the sitting. At the stage of the debate, Mr Nelson Peralta, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister for the Environment and Climate Action, State Secretaries : Today, the World Environment Day is celebrated and, for this reason, the Left Block brings here this urgent debate, precisely to point out the urgency of responding to the climate crisis. The history of climate change is made of inequality. The poorest populations have contributed less to climate change, have benefited less from this development and are those who are now more suffering from the effects of the climate crisis. In Portugal and in the world, we recognize this social dimension, the importance of common goods and historical responsibilities. The current production model led the planet to the climate chasm. There are 100 companies responsible for 70 % of global carbon emissions. A minority benefits from the profits of this system of continuous extraction of natural resources. The back of the medal is the unprotected communities, biodiversity at risk and an environmental disaster. We don't play in the championship of false solutions. To say that the problem is only individual behavior is to try to eliminate the systemic dimension of the climate crisis. Creating new carbon markets is just insisting on speculation. Making the polluter-payer principle the centre of environmental policy is to confer pollution rights to those who have the most. To put workers to pay for the crisis is to repeat the failed recipe of austerity. The problem is even this economy and our goal is to create an alternative. The path to carbon neutrality is not socially neutral and we choose a more solidarity and equality society. We are also familiar with the lessons of the 2008 financial crisis: austerity has deepened the crisis itself, inequality and poverty. We are now going through a difficult moment in our collective life. The COVID-19 pandemic claimed several lives and caused a social and economic crisis. Here too, the most impoverished layers of the population are the most unprotected. The COVID-19 crisis has led to a drastic reduction in emissions. But the solution is not intervals in pollution, we need structural changes. The response to the COVID-19 crisis must also respond to the climate crisis. At a time when economic recovery will be made with public funds, we cannot repeat the mistakes of the past. We need an ecological and energy transition that creates employment for the needs of society and the planet: in renewable energy, in housing, in public services, in food security, in the protection of biodiversity. The European Commission has defined the energy and environmental transition as the priority in the allocation of funds. It is to answer how they can and should be used that money that we are starting this debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u3	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u4	In Portugal there are those who die cold in winter and 23 % of the population do not have the capacity to warm their home. Let's start with public investment in the transition to renewable energy. The transition cannot be subordinated to the profits of EDP and Galp, which create social exclusion. It is necessary to recover a public energy sector for renewables and we need to guarantee jobs in all areas that become obsolete, such as coal plants. We need more public transport and more rail, for fewer cars and more air quality. We need short circuits of consumption and sustainable production, with less waste. The transition must also mean that we leave unexplored reserves of gas and oil on the ground.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u5	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u6	In addition to reducing emissions, it is necessary to protect natural carbon sinks. Our forest cannot continue a monoculture of eucalyptus. The defence of the territory and populations implies an adapted and protected territory from the effects of extreme climate phenomena, such as fires. Much is said about the sea and the blue economy. But the government has forgotten the marine ecosystems, which can be 40 times more effective in carbon capture than land forests and which feed on resources small fishing communities.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u7	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u8	The Left Block contributes to solutions. Today, we present our climate-based law, which provides that most of the emission cuts are already made by 2030 and that it is possible to anticipate the date for carbon neutrality. in this law, we include central policies to achieve these objectives. Some say this is not the time to have environmental concerns. She's wrong! He will be building again a castle of letters, waiting for the sale of the next crisis. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u9	The response to the pandemic crisis must also respond to the climate crisis. The alternative is to create jobs that respond to social needs and the climate crisis. A more robust model that ensures that employment is not destroyed in the next cyclical crisis, employment to get out of the crisis, to guarantee social rights and to save the planet. I conclude by saying that the market has created the problem and will not solve it. That's why we need to change the system, not change the climate. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u10	At the opening stage of the debate, Mr President, on behalf of the Government, the Minister for the Environment and Climate Action.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u11	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Yes, the debate is urgent, so it has been convened, and this discussion on post-pandamy environmental policy will be urgently discussed, on the date on which the World Environment Day is celebrated. But for this government, the urgency of environmental issues began long before and will not even end this debate. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u12	Urgent was the decarbonization of the Portuguese economy. For this reason, the Government approved exactly one year ago the Roadmap for Carbon Neutrality 2050, which defines the 2020 / 2030 decade as the key period for achieving our objectives. I remember that we are the first country in the world to affirm this political commitment. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Urgent was the energy transition and the climate action. For this reason, we have approved the National Energy and Climate Plan 2030, which, with ambition, traces the guidelines that will guide us already in this decade. Urgent was an Action Plan for the Circular Economy, which we made and presented to Portuguese society, as we are concluding a plan for sustainable bio-economics. Urgent was the revision of the National Territorial Planning Policy Program, integrating strategic options for the territory and the enhancement of natural capital and influencing landscape policy. Urgent was the change in Portuguese forestry policy and, therefore, two weeks ago, we approved a set of diplomas that alter the paradigm of the use and economic exploitation of the forest, diplomas that aim to transform the landscape, in order to ensure the sustainability, valorization and development of vulnerable territories. It was urgent to intervene in the waste sector and therefore this government temporarily prevented landfilling waste from abroad and is in the process of presenting its strategy for bio-residues. Urgent was the paradigm shift in the management of our protected areas and, thus, three years ago, we introduced and started a set of pilot projects and started our co-management policy. Urgent was the strengthening of intervention capacity in low-density territories and, in this way, we created more nature watchers and a new National Body of Forest Agents. Urgent was the intervention on the coast and, therefore, three years ago, we approved the XXI Coastal Action Plan, with more than 1000 shares mobilising more than EUR 1, 1 billion of investment. Urgents were the investments to recover the supply and demand for collective transport and, thus, we mobilized national and Community resources of EUR 1, EUR 2 billion for the meters of Lisbon and Porto, to over 700 high-environmental buses, for the purchase of new ships for the Transtejo and, perhaps most important, for the PART(Tax Reduction Support Programme) in order to reduce the turnover of the users of collective transport, which is even a great measure for a fair transition. Urgent was the intervention in Lower Mondego and the proof that Portugal did not stop is that the works were done during the pandemic. Urgent was the inclusion of our country in the group of green hydrogen producers, accelerating the energy transition with which we are committed and, therefore, two weeks ago, we were once again the first country in Europe to conclude this strategy for hydrogen. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : It was urgent and is, for us, the construction of a more sustainable and fairer society. Therefore, with this urgency, after consulting more than 30 specialists, we prepared our governance areas for the post-COVID period. We did not do so for lack of planning, but because the intensity and magnitude of the pandemic crisis forced us to achieve objectives. We urgently believe that the responses to this crisis require an increase in public investment, aimed at financial and economic recovery. And we urgently believe that the response to the crisis will have to be simultaneous and immediate, but it must take into account a long-term vision. We urgently need to address the major societal challenges that are taking place today at national, European and global level and that generate long-term benefits for society and the economy. This is how we establish our vision, which is to create wealth and well-being for society from investment projects that are generators of employment and social inclusion, that benefit the reduction of emissions, that promote energy transition, sustainable mobility, the circularity of the economy and the adaptation and enhancement of the territory. This vision, which lies within a mission: to ensure that environmental projects are commonly accepted as those that can best contribute to the recovery of the economy and to the fight against poverty in the short term, and simultaneously to the construction of a more just society and a more sustainable territory in the long term. And, with pleasure, we have verified that this is also the understanding of the European institutions in the construction of the recovery programme of our economies. We urgently consider it necessary to design new lines of production, distribution and consumption, betting on short chains, which guarantee the use and sustainable use of endogenous resources, as well as the competitiveness and growth of our economy. We urgently consider the use of biodiversity and natural and geological resources to be crucial, and therefore we have prepared a set of short- and medium-term transformational actions, financed from public but also private funds, whose realisation could mobilise around EUR 4 billion. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, our sense of environmental urgency has never faded. We are well aware of how fundamental it is to decarbonise the economy, we are well aware of how we must have a more efficient use of resources, betting on the circular economy. We have never hesitated to make our infrastructure more resilient. We will never forget or forget the need for the modernisation and digital transformation of our strategic sectors. We never doubted the duty to preserve biodiversity and eliminate pollution. Today, the World Environment Day is celebrated, and it is celebrated a few days after we have known that Portugal has already reduced 21 % of its emissions by 2018 and that last year in provisional numbers, when Europe has reduced its emissions by 4 %, 3 %, we have reduced them by 8 %, 5 %,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... making it absolutely clear that there is no link between economic growth and emissions. Don't! Portugal was one of the first countries in Europe to show that. Thank you very much and a good debate, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u13	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us now move on to the first round of requests for clarification. Mr Ricardo Pinheiro has the floor by the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u14	First of all, I welcome Mr President of the House. Members, the Minister and the Members. State Secretaries. The current moment requires institutions with political responsibility for environmental protection to use legal mechanisms in order to continue to encourage models based on value creation, but at the same time to protect the environment and biodiversity.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u15	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u16	Today, it is World Environment Day, but it is not enough to introduce, in the organization's demonstration of results, an environmental protection-affected value and to make it relate to the operational outcome at the end of each year. It was manifestly little, it is manifestly little, for the planet's protective exercise. Strategic areas of the country's operation, such as high water supply, waste water treatment, waste treatment or public transport treatment, after a time as difficult as the one we have lived in the last three months, were guaranteed by an absolutely extraordinary work of the team of the Ministry of the Environment. The strategic energy and climate plan that the Ministry of the Environment has developed and the National Roadmap for Decarbonization are fundamental documents, with scientific rigor and which clarify how carbon neutrality should happen. The Action Plan for the Circular Economy maintains that we must have the ability to value materials, even in the end of life in a given use, and to create knowledge to reuse them. It is at this point that makes the whole point a plan where investment in scientific knowledge in the areas of bio-economics enables a new value chain, from material research, to the design of new products. We should favour the use of national technology in the process of decarbonisation of the different sectors. The energy transition must happen at different levels. In forests and agriculture, we must increase the country's forest area and clearly reduce the burning area. Innovation programmes such as the Landscape Transformation Programme and the Partnering Programme for Sorting are strategic for the introduction of concepts such as the « ecosystem services ». In electricity and fuels, we should have an ambition to reduce the import of 65 million barrels of oil per year, introducing capacity and increase of approximately 5 GW in solar technology and 4 GW in wind. It is an enormous ambition on the part of the country, but we will certainly achieve it. In mobility, we will implement the green hydrogen production project in Sines and support synthetic fuels produced from hydrogen, in addition to advanced biofuels. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group has worked on a draft climate-based law and we should focus on fundamental issues such as the effect of climate change on human health and a new structure of costs and benefits in business contexts. Whenever the economy is decarbonized, we must understand how we regulate the market and how we correlate the most massive and developed areas of the national territory with the low-density territories, which generate a tremendous balance to meet the country's goals internationally. [[P.S.'s applause.]] this week, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group produced a legislative initiative addressing the Tejo River, the air quality in Portugal, the parameters of quality control and operation of landfills in Portugal and projects such as the certification of origin of biomass in the plants used in Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is the moment when we will counter the definition of progress and when parameters such as the amount of built concrete or the amount of waste, which defined the growth of a given region, are no longer aligned with the concept of carbon neutrality. Mr Minister, the pandemic has brought a sense of urgency that urges us to anticipate the fair transition, but the highly dependent fossil fuel industries have people and jobs. How will we be able to ensure that this transition is achieved and adapted to models, whether in consumption habits, whether in the way we pack the products or in all areas and sectors where we value the most emissive fuels to the detriment of the least emissive ones, to continue to introduce value into this global chain? this week, a draft resolution was introduced by the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, which recommends that the Government strengthen the State's incentive to use bicycles. The annual socio-economic benefits of bicycle use in the European Union are approximately EUR 150 billion, i.e. close to 1 % of its gross domestic product. It is extremely important that we have this conscience. The Parliamentary Group and the Socialist Party have this conscience and know clearly that to decarbonise the economy is also to decarbonise the political process. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u17	I am aware that there is already a quorum for the votes, so I ask the benches to be organized in such a way that there are no more than 120 ladies and gentlemen. Members present in the plenary. It is now the turn of the PSD Parliamentary Group. Mr. Luís Leite Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u18	Mr President, Mrs. Secretary of State for the Environment, Mrs. State Secretary for Parliamentary and Deputy Energy Affairs, Members of Parliament and Members of the Commission. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are celebrating the World Environment Day, dedicated this year by the United Nations, to the nature, resources, to the food we eat and to the water we drink, to the air we breathe, to the climate we need to live in. If the alarm has been sound for some time now, the last few months have shown in a cruel way the responsibility that lies with us in managing the resources indispensable to the survival of mankind. We have an obligation to return to future generations a planet where they can live. The health crisis we are undergoing has further accentuated the climate emergency in which we have lived for several decades, and has shown us how urgent and decisive it is to change policies and behaviors, accelerate transformations and reforms. We need to create a more efficient, more sustainable, more resilient « new », we need to bet on policies, processes and initiatives that ensure greater sustainability and resource efficiency and we need to replace and mitigate what is most degraded and polluted. This is our conviction, the conviction of the PSD. It was this same conviction that led us, more than 30 years ago, in 1987, to adopt the first Environmental Bases Act in Portugal. Since then, the environment and climate have been a constant priority in our political action, such as the Green Growth Commitment — which brought together the Academy, civil society, companies and public administration around this same objective —, missions for the internationalisation of the green economy, the reform of green taxation, the reform of electric mobility, the reform of the spatial planning, the restructuring of the waste sector, among many others. Climate security and justice must be a collective, national and European priority. This is the time to show that in fact a resilient and sustainable economy is the way to recover the effects that this pandemic created in Portugal. We believe that climate justice must go hand in hand with economic justice, territorial justice and social justice. Topics such as air quality, soils and water masses, economic decarbonization, water, energy and resource efficiency, sustainable production, circular economy, sustainable mobility and smart cities or reduction of waste production and recovery must be much more than plans of intentions and announcements to feed the media foam of the days. The planet needs protection and Portugal needs action.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u19	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u20	This is the time to bet on a development strategy aimed at correcting the country's structural imbalances, starting with the environment and climate action, which implies making choices and setting priorities on bets and investments that we will support with public resources. It was with this concern that the PSD presented, this week, a set of proposals and measures for the recovery of the economy, focused on sustainable growth. Portugal should favour investments in areas that promote a structural transformation of the economy, which create qualified employment, which reduce social and territorial inequalities. It should also wager in the digitisation of the economy, the circular economy, short circuits, more sustainable mobility, energy efficiency, the wider use of renewable energy, or also in the promotion of projects and legislation that encourage the reduction, recycling and reuse of waste. This is the time to implement a central and municipal procurement policy that favours sustainable products, services and businesses. This is the time to bet on the rehabilitation of the building and on the effective improvement of energy efficiency. This is the time to increase the production of renewable energy, especially solar, which will reduce the level of external dependence on energy, especially fossil, and will also stimulate the economy with the development of technologies, construction, installation and maintenance of infrastructure and the creation of qualified employment. This is the time to bet on digital transformation and on encouraging the circular economy, promoting the efficient use of resources and the reduction and recycling of waste. This is the time to promote green taxation which, on the one hand, contributes to the financing of the investments necessary for the protection and conservation of the environment and, on the other hand, which motivates and stimulates the market for more efficient operations, penalizing less efficient practices and valuing those that invest to contribute to a more sustainable future. This is the time to ensure equity and territorial justice in the allocation of European Union funds, prioritising investments in infrastructure that catalyzes the decarbonization of all sectors of the economy, such as wind and solar energy, energy efficiency, mobility and sustainable agriculture or, furthermore, that allow adequate remuneration for environmental services of ecosystems, the protection and conservation of biodiversity and the occupation and maintenance of natural spaces. All of this will bring long-term sustainable economic stimulus, making our societies resistant to future shocks. The world is preparing for this paradigm shift. Portugal, which has already led in the fight against climate change, now has the opportunity to re-lead this change in Europe. This requires everyone's commitment.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u21	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u22	I shall conclude, Mr President. The demands of the challenges ahead cannot be less than the courage we need to act. We cannot fail—for ourselves and for generations to come. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u23	It is now the turn of the Left Block Parliamentary Group. Mr Jorge Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u24	Mr President, the climate crisis continues to be the background of our collective life and the crisis of the COVID, the economic-social crisis opened by the pandemic, takes place precisely under this background. Therefore, the response to the crisis and the implementation of a programme of economic and social urgency must go through the policies of response to climate change and they are powerful and have enormous potential for job creation. In these three minutes I would like to take this opportunity to bring to the debate two proposals which the Left Block has made and which, in this context, the response of the emergency programme to the economic and social crisis can be very relevant. One is the issue of the production of decentralized solar energy, based on shared self-consumption. The current legal framework of self-consumption has been penalizing domestic consumers, with low energy consumption in the hours of the sun, leading to a very residual diffusion of these self-consumption systems in our country. The bonding of the production counter to a consumer counter does not, for example, allow neighbors to join together to buy the same photovoltaic panel for shared self-consumption. Associated with the lack of investment capacity of families, now aggravated in the context of the COVID crisis, this is the main blockage to the adoption of a more widespread solar production in housing and condominium buildings. This and this difficulty will remain, if nothing is done in the context of the COVID crisis, because the economic situation of families is only likely to be more difficult. It is therefore necessary to create legal instruments that allow consumption to be added and to enable the sharing of photovoltaic solar production, so that this technology becomes profitable in the domestic sector. at the same time, it is urgent a plan for photovoltaic solar production for self-consumption, in which the State develops this technology in public buildings, organizes a network of installers and designers and shares these investments with families. This plan allows progress towards the production of photovoltaic solar energy, in order to increase the capacity installed in 2 GW by 2030, half of them by 2025. This would accelerate the goals, which are constant today, of the National Energy and Climate Plan, and should be based on the launch of regional competitions for the installation of photovoltaic systems in public buildings,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u25	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u26	... in addition to the financing of Community self-consumption systems, public investment is amortised within seven years due to the absorption by users of savings. The objective is an installed power of 1500 MW in residences, an investment of EUR 1300 million, with profitability rates for the State which may be more than 5 %. The other proposal that the Block has made is that of a programme for energy efficiency in social housing. In the economic and social emergency programme presented yesterday by the Government, intervention is referred to in the houses of the IHRU ( Institute for Housing and Urban Rehabilitation ), they simply correspond to only 10 % of the total social housing in Portugal. It is therefore necessary to think of this policy in a strong partnership with the municipalities, with funds for this purpose, so that most winter losses, due to lack of coverage in buildings, where isolation is lacking in windows, roofs and facades, where the poorest of the poor feel the effect of the weather, can be corrected.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u27	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u28	It is therefore possible to respond to the difficulties of the COVID-19 crisis with job creation, with public investment, with policies to combat energy poverty and that respond to the background of the current crisis, which is the climate crisis and the rising temperature of the planet. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u29	Mrs Alma Rivera of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u30	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, Minister, environmental issues today have an undeniable centrality and importance, so we welcome this debate on World Environment Day, but it is necessary to put your finger on the wound: it is necessary to go to the causes. We cannot continue to ignore the origin of environmental problems, not only at the climate level, because otherwise we will never succeed in the solution. What, after all, created the environmental emergency? It was the off production of needs, it was the focused production of profit, it was the privatization of essential sectors and the predation of resources. in this system, no matter the waste, the creation of unsustainable needs or pollution, if this is all in the name of profit maximization. If necessary, for example: a few months ago, the PCP proposed that producers and distributors of products use the strictly necessary plastic packaging — a basic thing. It was « impossible... », they cried out, «... because marketing cannot be limited to have less waste and waste»! But when you went to pay for plastic bags, when you talk about green taxation and get the people to pay the bill, there, yes, it is possible! Environmental problems are not solved with financial and speculative mechanisms, otherwise we would be fine. It is not even with the taxation of individual behaviors to then close the eyes to large polluters and resource predators. Another example: the European Union's great response to the environment, which Portugal is seeking, is the carbon market. Well, they buy and sell polluting licenses and even you can gain the right to pollute more by planting eucalyptus or financing a company in a underdeveloped country, and you can continue to pollute in the same way, or even more! In practice, there is no intention to reduce emissions because otherwise they were defined by a specific regulation for greenhouse gases and a transition to less polluting energies was made in respect of the development of countries. This is just a new business, it's just high finance and little ecology! Let us, then, talk about concrete measures, Mr Minister and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen. Portugal really needs a turn in environmental policies! When will the State of ability to control environmental parameters? The APA (Portuguese Environment Agency ), the ICNF ( Institute for Conservation of Nature and Forests ), the IGAMAOT (General Inspection of Agriculture, the Sea, the Environment and Land Planning ), the SEPNA ( Nature and Environment Protection Service) will continue to lose workers and means? Are we going to hold hands in the waste sector or are we going to have a real recycling policy? Will the landfills continue to infernify the populations? What about the waste? When will the CFP proposal to combat programmed obsolescence be approved, saving resources and improving the lives of the people? At the water level, will we continue on the path of privatization or will we have a policy that promotes rational use? Will the rivers continue without surveillance or will there be protection of the tails and ecosystems? What about transport? The social pass was the most environmentally just measure of recent years: only in Lisbon, it took at least 50 000 cars per day of circulation. After PS, PSD and CDS vote against and BE abstained, the PCP was able to approve this measure in 2017, but it is urgent to invest in public transport so that they have more quality and people do not go after, as they are now, in times of COVID-19. What about the railroad? Is it now that you're gonna be serious? Will national production be a priority or will we continue to lower our heads to the European Union's demands and continue with the environmental crime that is to send it away, and can it produce locally and in a balanced way? It is not time to remove responsibilities of the capitalist production system, nor of empty intentions. Very macro and little micro. It is time to face the economic interests that want all this to happen. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u31	You have the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the CDS-PP, Mr João Gonçalves Pereira.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u32	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrs. Members, Minister, the economic recovery of Portugal must be compatible with the climate. Portugal shall preside over the European Union in the first half of 2021. The UN ( United Nations ), the European Union, governments and environmentalists agree: the pandemic is an opportunity to accelerate decarbonization. The priorities of the European Semester and the multiannual financial framework remain: energy and climate transition. For a better Portuguese position on access to these funds, fundamental to European recovery, the bet on environmentally responsible and innovative projects is decisive for the future Portuguese. There is a commitment to carbon neutrality by 2050 and what is at stake is precisely the future of the planet. The European Ecological Pact, the Green Deal, is precisely this opportunity. Portugal, for example, at the level of decentralised energy production in the case of solar, does not yet reach 3 %. We must bet on investment in green infrastructure, to the detriment of the new gray infrastructure. Betting on the efficiency of water use and distribution should also be a priority. The Portuguese energy system has a high dependence on fossil fuels. The path to a more efficient energy transition requires a package of measures that go through the creation of a national mobility plan focused on the rail network, a strong bet on public transport and new modes of mobility in our cities, also by creating specific mechanisms that the bank itself can have for loans for energy efficiency purposes, by promoting telework or by creating a policy of incentives for the renewal of industrial equipment, i.e. by equipping our cutting-edge technology industry, which is the technology that enables more efficiency, more competitiveness and lower energy consumption. Today, we have this urgent debate on World Environment Day to discuss climate issues. Well! The CDS believes that there is a priority for the country, there is a priority for Europe and there is a priority for the world that passes through the circular economy, green economy and energy transition. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u33	Mr André Silva of the NAP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u34	Mr President, Minister, it is not worth repeating that we have to reduce emissions, adapt the country to the effects of climate change and protect ecosystems, we really have to act. And we have to act in a planned way, thinking in the long term and making better use of the scarce financial resources we have. For this reason, the NAP has already presented a draft climate-based law for reducing emissions to be mandatory, and not only talks, so that Parliament, universities and non-governmental environmental organizations are responsible for the policies of decarbonization, so that the country has effective ability to face the effects of climate change, such as through interventions on the coastal shore, in water management, in the prevention of fires and desertification, and that all this is done in a less costly way for the country. The Minister recently presented the strategy for hydrogen, focused in a first phase on a project in Sines, to be developed by EDP. It provides for an investment of EUR 7 billion and public support in the range of EUR 900 million, but does not change the emission reduction targets, only introduces another type of renewable energy. Now, if hydrogen is not on the Roadmap for Carbonic Neutrality, if hydrogen is not mentioned in the National Energy and Climate Plan for 2030, I ask, Minister : wouldn't it make sense to anticipate the targets of decarbonization? Obviously, the NAP is in favour of renewable energy, that's not what's at stake, come hydrogen, come all the others. What is at stake is the Government's option to direct almost EUR 1 billion of taxpayers' money to support the industry of refining, chemistry, steel, mines and cement in its decarbonisation. It seems to us that those who have to pay for the decarbonization of these industries are their shareholders and not taxpayers' money. I ask, Minister : how does this option justify? Did you do economic studies compared to other renewable energies?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u35	Maybe it would be better to read the project!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u36	And, in contrast, what support will it give people to invest in micro-production and energy storage in their homes and self-consumption? What support will you give to the most disadvantaged families to make their homes more efficient and warmer in winter and reduce electricity bill? How much will you invest in preparing the country for the effects of climate change? And we're not talking about putting more sand on the beaches, which every year the sea takes. We are talking about identifying the flood zones and finding solutions for affected populations, ensuring the existence of drinking water and combating desertification in the south of the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u37	Mrs Mariana Silva of the Greens Ecologist Party has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u38	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, today we celebrate the World Environment Day, whose theme for 2020 was biodiversity. Biodiversity, whether a species or an entire ecosystem, is vital for human health and well-being. The quality of the water we drink, the food we consume and the air we breathe depend on the good health of nature. We have never talked about both the environment, climate change, decarbonization and sustainability, as well as in 2019. Millions of young people have manifested themselves because they feel the future of the planet, and above all their future, committed and demand more to be done, to face up to problems and to put into practice serious policies of commitment to the environment and to citizens. At COP 25 ( Conference of the Parties ), also in 2019, Mr. Prime Minister said that Portugal was in the forefront of environmental policies and Mr. Minister of the Environment was in Madrid saying that we were doing what was necessary and that Portugal would not admit that the others did not do the same. Today, the Minister of the Environment has insisted on this narrative and, at least in the identification of plans, we must be right in the front line. After 6 months, here we are discussing environmental policies that have not been implemented, the promises that have been forgotten, and sometimes without account, that in the name of another crisis, even a crisis that no one expected, is not worth everything. Is it, Mr Minister, that the urgency for the protection of biodiversity is consistent with the advance in the exploitation of natural gas in the Battle and Pombal or with the construction of an airport in Montijo, in a natural reserve area of the Tejo? Is the preservation of biodiversity with the exploitation of lithium in soils classified as world agricultural heritage and in balds, Mr Minister of the Environment? It seems to us that the urgency of this exploitation is with destruction. Portugal has already suffered from the devastating effects of the climate change process, with severe climate extremes, which had brutal consequences, such as the large forest fires that we did not believe ever happened, or with the storm Leslie, or even with the storm that hit Beira Baixa last weekend. Today, we face another moment that you can't imagine. But even with an epidemic like that of COVID-19, fighting for a nature rich in biodiversity and functional ecosystems is still necessary. At the moment of confinement, part-stopping of the economy was much heard about air quality, noise reduction and the return of some animals who did not dare approach urban centers. The problem, Mr. Minister and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, as far as biodiversity and nature are concerned, there is a virus that is at least as difficult to owe as this: the virus of profit, greed, which does not care about the destruction of those, and that is also what we have to fight. It's not worth everything! The planet — the men and women who live here — cannot stand. The Greens, who started this fight almost 40 years ago, will not tire of saying. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u39	To close the first round, Mr. Minister for Environment and Climate Action has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u40	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very grateful for the questions you have asked me. What I want to make clear is that our environmental policy represents even investment. Much more than discussing the tension generated by those who, as Mr Peralta said here — without joining them, obviously — seem to want now to take advantage of the opportunity to recover very quickly and forget what happened or, on the other hand, the tension generated by those who believe that now, yes, there are conditions for a just society and a sustainable society, much more than to make the exegesis of this tension, the important thing is to realize that this is the time to assert environmental policy as an action policy and not as a policy to add "no", as a policy of investing, creating wealth, creating qualified employment and creating well-being for society. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is, I apologize for the immodesty, the policy of this government, this is the policy of this Ministry of the Environment, since we have these political responsibilities. And if we have done so much and if we are well prepared for the challenge ahead of us, we are well aware that, with the European Green Deal and with the European Union affirming the principle of Europe's own recovery from the European Green Deal, we will even have the essential financial resources to make the investments that are also needed and that will necessarily have a large public investment component. Mr. Ricardo Pinheiro, thank you very much for your words. Soft mobility has its own strategy. We have not been particularly successful with regard to the funds from the Environmental Fund that existed for soft mobility, in the face of the applications submitted by the authorities. We didn't. of the 9 million existing for investment — I quote by color — applications did not exceed 3, 5 million. But we also know how much, now, the authorities have another position and so soft mobility is one of the most relevant investment axes of the stabilization plan, which was approved yesterday by the Council of Ministers. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr Leite Ramos, as far as the principles are concerned, I think that this debate is very interesting, because objectively, much of the principles for action are converging between the generality of the parties, obviously closing up, in political practice, many differences — where we distinguish ourselves from the PSD is the fact that what the PSD calls'strategy' is basically to put the country on balance and believe that there is an Autoeuropa. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That was the strategy your leader put forward and, in fact, we do not think so. I think it really takes a strategy to lead projects like green hydrogen,... [[PSD Member Protest Duarte Marques.]] ... there is really a need for a public strategy to lead projects such as solar production in Portugal and not to leave this to « may someone come». [[PSD protests.]] We really want this private investment to happen. We know that an expressive part of this private investment is foreign investment, but there have to be public policies for this to happen, rather than believing that ‘putting the cheapest thing here,’ they will come there. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD Member Protest Duarte Marques.]] Mr Jorge Costa, there is indeed a great convergence between what he has said and what is also the government's policy and practice. With regard to shared self-consumption, the very little that is lacking will be done. And, as you know, it was even with this government in good rigour that it went with the previous government, that is, with us, and already with João Galamba as responsible for the area of energy, that we created communities for self-consumption. And, yes, as regards energy efficiency for social housing, I repeat something that has already said: as in soft mobility, energy efficiency is also fundamental in this stabilisation plan, and we are not talking about recovery, then it will be even more expressive. [[PSD Member Protest Duarte Marques.]] Therefore, come from there the implementation of the project that you announced here, in order to value social housing. thus, we have achieved two things: to be more energy efficient and to reduce emissions and, in parallel, obviously, to combat energy poverty. Mrs Alma Rivera, I would like to begin by saying the following: the polluter-payer principle is not to pay for pollution.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u41	Yeah, yeah!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u42	No, it's not! I'm sorry, but it's not! The polluter-payer principle is to pay because the polluter, it's to pay because the polluter. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by PCP MP Alma Rivera.]] Mr Member, the CFP says this repeatedly. You can even say repeatedly that I have long hair, that I have long hair! Oh, my God! The polluter-payer principle is actually to pay because of the polluter. This is really the polluter-payer principle. The alternative is to put all taxpayers to make that payment. So, I am glad that there is the polluter-payer principle.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u43	The poor are paying!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u44	And I would also like to say to you, Mrs Commissioner: I have no doubt that taxation is very important here. [[Protests by PCP MP Alma Rivera.]] Mrs Deputy, when the former Government, already the Socialist Party and with the support of the left, was the Government, there was a complete tax exemption in the production of electricity from coal. That's how it was! And it wasn't just the previous government, it was last year, that's how it existed. And if, today, there is no electricity production from coal already a large number of months ago, it is because it has lost competitiveness. It is because it is much more expensive to produce from coal than to produce from gas and, above all, from renewable energy. That is why taxation has played a nuclear role in reducing emissions, and this is a major factor in reducing emissions. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr João Gonçalves Pereira, I tell you that I have no doubt as much of the importance the financial system has in this whole transition process as we have always said. In the significant investment volume of the Roadmap for Carbon Neutrality, a very significant share of the investment will come from companies and families. That is why, yesterday, when the Council of Ministers renewed — in the sense that it has transformed deeply — what is our investment bank, it has even had a very large share of green bank. The future investment bank will be devoted, among other things, essentially to investments that are necessary for the environmental sustainability of our economy. Mr André Silva, correcting some misconceptions: not only is hydrogen already present on the Roadmap for Carbon Neutrality, as in particular —...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u45	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u46	...the honourable Member can shake his head as often as he wants — hydrogen is, and in what way! , present in the National Energy and Climate Plan. On the other hand, I wanted to tell you that the EUR 7 billion you talked about — once again a small mistake, from one to two — are the investment value of the whole strategy for hydrogen, in which the hydrogen project you spoke about — and also spoke with little rigour! — it corresponds to about half of this same investment. We know that to decarbonize the country's electrification is fundamental, but electrification is not enough. There are a set of processes, industrial processes, which will continue to use gases. It is essential that these gases be renewable and therefore this strategy for hydrogen. The numbers are there, Mr. Deputies. Don't say what's coming... [[Protests by PAN MP André Silva.]] Mr. Deputies, we are always talking about the future. As much as it costs you to admit, we reduced carbon emissions by 8 % last year when Europe dropped by 4 %, 3 %. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And you always realize that this does not exist. The hydrogen project is essentially a private investment project. But I have already understood, Mr President, that it is like in the circular line of the Lisbon Metro : « things are done, as long as they are not done»! In the background, when it is even to make projects that, for sure, reduce our emissions, the PAN, there, fights everything...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u47	What about your studies? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u48	...and, after all, it can be against everything, I repeat, against everything! [[Protests by PAN MP André Silva.]] Mrs Mariana Silva, it is very significant when mixing lithium and buckets! Yes, yes, it is even possible to have projects to exploit our natural resources, provided they are aligned with decarbonization and digitization, for which lithium is fundamental. And there is one thing that is true: the fact that the land has the status of baldium does not prevent that exploitation from happening at all. Mrs Deputy, I tell you exactly what I told Mr André Silva of the NAP: the numbers are right there. Mrs Deputy, by insisting that six months ago we said this, six months ago we discussed that and that nothing happened, it is not really — but really! — to take the picture of the country where you live and of the citizens who also represent, as Member of Parliament. Madam Member, I repeat, we reduced our emissions by 8 % last year, when Europe reduced them by 4 %, 3 %. And we did that when we grew up more than the others. Therefore, Mrs Deputy, I conclude by saying: do not be disturbed by the environmental success of your country. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u49	We will move on to the second round, where Members can make additional requests for clarification. You have the floor by the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Hugo Pires.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u50	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members, Minister, climate justice and crisis exit are the theme brought to debate by the Left Block, on the date on which the World Environment Day is signed. This is undoubtedly an important efemerid and makes sense to point out. It is important, because we must remember everything that has been done in the fight against climate change, in particular by recalling that Portugal was the first country worldwide to undertake the commitment of carbon neutrality to 2050. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It was this government that took it and demonstrated the ambition to reduce these emissions by half, or more than half, and by 2030. But it was mainly with this government that Portugal last year managed to grow above the European average and, at the same time, managed to reduce carbon emissions while making the economy grow. This is a sign that we were able to grow the economy, create wealth and move towards carbon neutrality. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u51	If there were any doubts, this is the sign that we are on the right track. If there were any doubts, this is the sign that the Socialist Party and the Government of the Socialist Party receive no lessons from anyone in combating climate change. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But before we talk about the future, I want to recognize the right effort that the PSD and the CDS have made to try to dress up the fact of the parties concerned about sustainable development. I see them, here, doing exercises and speeches, sorry for the expression, even too cute for those who did what they did, when it was government. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I just want to remember that it was the PSD and CDS government that put the electric mobility project in the drawer for the country. [[PSD protests.]] It was the CDS and PSD that put in the drawer the new projects for renewables. I mean, with your fine speech, I even got confused about what would have been your sense of vote on the single steps. [[That's right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u52	There was a transformation in public transport. It was a measure that helped thousands of people and reduced carbon emissions. And even I asked, here—because I was in doubt with your speech—what would have been your sense of vote. I'm sorry to remind you, but your vote was against. They voted against a structural measure to help reduce carbon emissions. They voted against it, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! [[P.S.'s applause.]] But, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, marking this day is also important because it allows us to think about the future. And the post-COVID-19 may be an opportunity to accelerate the transition to a green economy. It is with the eyes set in the future that we want to build a more sustainable, more resilient society, which pushes our economy, our businesses, making them more competitive and resource efficient. We now have the opportunity to achieve this change. Mr Minister, the Portuguese do not have a more prosperous, less unequal and more sustainable future. the Socialist Party has the responsibility to lead this process of transition to a green economy. The question I ask you is how will this transition create jobs and make Portugal and the European Union a more competitive region worldwide? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u53	You have the floor by the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Bruno Coimbra.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u54	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister, today, he has told us about many important things for the future. Mr Minister, this is already your fifth World Environment Day in the role of Minister for the Environment of Portugal. Five years ago, the promise was to a cleaner Portugal, with greener energy, more energy-efficient water, better waste management, a circular economy and more sustainable mobility. He spoke to us, as we are now, about future intentions and how we would overcome the challenges. But we all know that it was not so, despite the fantastic exercise that the Socialist Party Member has just tried to do. [[Protests by the PS Spouse Porfirio Silva.]] Today, we have a Portugal that is no longer clean, Mr Minister, which continues to grow less than it could in renewable energy and, as Mr Minister has cut off the bet on energy interconnections, will hardly manage to export clean energy. We have a country with one of the highest energy poverty rates in Europe, with losses in water networks about 170 million cubic metres per year and with an air quality monitoring network that, despite having a modern site and application, has obsolete equipment. We liked to be around here, but the truth is, reality doesn't allow us. Recycling targets are still far from being met, as soon as possible, Minister. The bioresidues were the bullshit you heard. The various pilot projects, such as the installation of drinking packaging equipment, or the social rate in bottle gas, continue to be stopped or, perhaps, in confinement. In the landfills, it seems to have returned the time of the landfills, so many are the harmful impacts and complaints from various points of the country, now about the illegal deposition of asbestos, which join the recurrent illegal discharges in rivers and water lines, revealing that something is to be achieved with regard to the inspection, monitoring and even sanctioning of its protection. Mr Minister, in your speech, the objectives are always present. Unfortunately, we cannot say the same about the results. It's a lot of ads, but less action; a lot of intentions, but little information. We know, and the Minister also knows, that advancing environmental policy makes work and is demanding. We also recognize some of your efforts, because the Minister knows that it is not enough to be pleasant. You know that, and that is why it is not like some people today to mark urgent debates and raise flags for the environment, but they are against green taxation, against wagering in renewables, against the energy and climate package, against incentives to electric mobility, against the carbon rate, against the environmental base law and against difficult measures to defend the coast and adapt to climate change. But you also know — and therefore it must be more consistent — that the major challenges we face, such as adaptation to climate change, energy transition, economic decarbonisation, require more courage, more vision and periodic assessments of progress achieved. As you know, Mr Minister, the pandemic scenario we have been going through has demanded that I make the right investments, not by mouth, but by real ones, and that I adapt the strategy to the new reality of safeguarding public health. Mr Minister, in recent years Portugal has had a very favourable situation. He had the opportunity, but he did not have the performance needed to continue the path he had begun.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u55	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u56	I shall now conclude, Mr President. Therefore, what is required to ask you is this: if, when the whole context has been favorable, it has been so much to do, as is now, that a strong and immediate recovery will be required, will ensure the necessary results in the challenge of efficiency, environmental performance and the fight against climate emergency? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u57	Mr Maria Manuel Rola has the floor for an intervention by the Left Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u58	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, let's take the study classes from the environment. Surely you have learned, like me, that one of the essential components in any living ecosystem is water, whether water as a human right and essential element to each and every one of us, whether as an element that keeps ecosystems alive, such as water from rivers running in the territories. One and the other cannot and should not be privatisable or hijacked by interests. This is the climate justice that is also social. Basically, he says that one cannot depend on access to elements to the right extent that they guarantee our life, that of everyone and every person, and that this should not depend on the possibility that each person has, or not, of paying. In these days, we understand this need: the need we have to wash our hands, to ensure our care and the care of others. To recognize that these essential elements cannot be made hostage is an essential paradigm change to the response to the guarantee of the right to life and to the minimum mechanisms to support it. It seems simple, but reality is different. The privatisation and profit saga did exactly the opposite: it took advantage of the public infrastructure, which we all built with our taxes—that is what they serve! — to retain profits and also water. Privatization did not guarantee either better infrastructure, nor better tariffs, nor universal access, did it. And do it - still now: multiply invoices in millions to municipalities,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u59	What are you talking about? Oh, my God! I don't understand!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u60	Exactly! to municipalities, multiply invoices in millions, withdraws investment in infrastructure by capturing these public millions, which fade away, and still goes to the pocket of each of the people who need water in these municipalities. For example, I am talking about Barcelos, Marco de Canaveses – you will surely know – about Paços de Ferreira, or even about Vila do Conde. You certainly know what I'm talking about, Minister, because you know the Port district very well. There are no more examples. The chambers have been paying millions, the water and sanitation infrastructure is running out of investment and the rates are rising. Social policy and the application of social tariffs to a human right, these, have been in the scope of intentions. And they're still there. It is therefore essential to remove them from this process now. Without subterfuges, these water concessions are reversed, the universal right to water is implemented and, with it, the automatic social tariff. Let us do the same with sanitation, treatment of effluents and with the investment necessary for the end of river eutrophication. I'm talking about the river Tejo, the river Tinto, the river Ferreira. Finally, investment in tertiary treatment and the renaturalization of rivers is advanced. Don't tell us, Minister, that private guarantees the optimization of resources. If there is something that clearly shows that this is not true, it is exactly the following: concessions in water, sanitation and, now, in waste water management. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u61	You now have the floor for an intervention by Mrs Alma Rivera of the CFP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u62	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, this debate is really interesting, because, more or less, there are three trends: those who put profit above everything and so they can even say things that are environmentally just and responsible, but then they do everything the opposite and, on the way, they take advantage of some green business, some green rates; those who send things to the air, knowing perfectly that it is just propaganda, it seems that they want to have an underdeveloped country and dependent on the outside; and we have those who want to put the questions seriously and discuss them by the root. Now, it's in these last ones that the PCP joins. So we have argued that, in order to protect the environment, it is necessary to know the levels of pollution in the air, in the waters, in the soil. In fact, you don't realize why we've had a land law for over four years to get out and not go out. Why? Oh, my God! To defend the environment, we need to monitor it, but for that, resources and means need to exist. It is unbelievable that you talk about the environment for hours and do not talk about the entities that have the responsibility to monitor and enforce the law. You have plans for everything and something else, even asserting and signing things, but then in the field it does not strike anything right. You are very large with the small ones, with those who depend on your work, but you are very small in the interests of the big ones. That's how it was in plastics, so it was in waste, so it was in rivers, so it was in oil. Let's talk about energy, then! Let's talk about the government's strategic plan to make Sines the gateway to Europe of shale gas. The shale gas is obtained in fracking and the open sky, 800 km from the east coast of the United States, is transported to the coast by trucks and then by the entire Atlantic, and enters through Sines to the rest of Europe. Is that the government's energy plan? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u63	Mr João Gonçalves Pereira, from the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, has the floor for one speech. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u64	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As a first note, I wanted to say that, in the intervention that was given, we realized the awkwardness of the Socialist Party. It seems that only the left has the heritage of defense of the environment. Mr. Ricardo Pinheiro says that the previous government put the mobility plan in the drawer. It's good to remember that there was no money in that drawer. I will now remind you, Mr President, that the former PSD/CDS Government has promoted the exemption of the IUC (unique traffic tax) for electric vehicles, the tax incentive for ISV (vehicle tax) and also the deduction of VAT (value added tax) for electric vehicles. It is good to remember that, apart from what Mr. Bruno Coimbra has already mentioned. Mr Minister, I would like to ask you one question, which concerns the following: yesterday, we were aware that eight environmental associations put the government in court because of Montijo airport. What do these environmental associations want? They want to cancel the environmental impact statement. If we are to analyze European legislation and national legislation, a work of that dimension and with infrastructure such as that necessarily compulsory at two steps: the first step, of State responsibility, is strategic environmental assessment; the second step, following this strategic environmental assessment, is the environmental impact study, which is the responsibility of the promoter, and hence the declaration of environmental impact. I'll try to explain what this means. The strategic environmental assessment, the first step, is basically the following: analyze a region and realize where there is less environmental impact, suggesting two, three, four or five possibilities. This is the first step. On the basis of this same strategic environmental assessment, as I have said, the different possibilities will result and the government has to define which possibility should be the target of an environmental impact study. That will be the second step. The first question I ask is to know why the government did not make this strategic environmental assessment. National legislation requires. European legislation also requires. If you consult the APA website, there is all the information. You will certainly not say that it is just environmentalist lamurias, I don't think that will be the case. of these eight associations — by chance, I was careful to go to see — one of them is an international association, ClientEarth, formed by a group of environmental law lawyers. I must tell you, Mr Minister, that I was concerned — that we are talking about someone who understands and dominates the area of environmental law well — when I saw the number of projects that have been involved in this world outside. The question I ask you is why the government has not complied with the law. Why did you not comply with the national law and the European law that you were obliged to do? My concern has to do with the following: if for some reason this process is going back, we are left without an airport solution in the Lisbon region.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u65	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u66	I wanted to leave a final note about the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u67	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u68	I will finish, Mr. President. I just want to leave one last note, with the tolerance given to the other speakers. Yesterday, the Left Block said there can be no public money for polluting companies and industries in this period of post-crisis and recovery. The question I ask is to know how the same party that defends this and which was heard here today later defends the nationalization of TAP, which means the injection of public money into that company, which is only the most polluting company in the region of Lisbon.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u69	For an intervention, Mr André Silva, of the NAP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u70	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I am so aware of the intervention of the CDS! ...For the CDS, it should be World Environment Day every day! ... Listening to the CDS defending the positions of non-governmental environmental organizations... I almost cried out of emotion, sir! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u71	Is it? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u72	Mr Minister, I have said that in some way I have distorted what Mr Minister said about investment in hydrogen. No, I didn't. We know that the total investment is EUR 7 billion. It is true that this is essentially private money, but about EUR 1 billion is taxpayers' money. What I ask you is whether it is sensible, if it makes sense that taxpayers pay for the decarbonisation of refinery or cement companies. It's just, for us, it's not! With tax policies, yes, we agree... [[Protests by the Minister for Environment and Climate Action.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u73	Sorry, that's what's in the plan! Direct taxpayers' money to support these companies, no. The shareholders who do it. He also said that this hydrogen plan, which was launched two weeks ago, was on the Roadmap for Carbon Neutrality and on the National Climate Energy Plan last year. Tell us what's the page on this plan you launched two weeks ago. Is it, in fact, if it wasn't in the plans, as we are saying, why are the targets of decarbonisation not anticipated? It seemed, indeed, sensible to us. Mr Minister, I also wanted to talk about a little bit of TAP. We know that TAP is an essential company, which provides an essential service. We all agree. We also know that it will be intervention with public money. Mr. Minister agrees that public support is given to TAP without environmental compensation, as the CDS defends, how does the PSD and the Socialist Party defend, which does not receive environmental lessons from anyone? What is the position of the Minister for the Environment? We're going to intervene in TAP. Should there be or should there be no environmental counterpart? Are we going or are we not going to eliminate night flights? Are we going to change the VAT rate of domestic flights, the end of fuel taxes? What are you going to ask for in return from an environmental point of view? That's all. In September, they will advance tourist projects in the Conporta with a occupation of over 900 ha, an area of construction and environmental devastation superior to that of the parish of the Olives, in Lisbon, or of Campanhã, in Porto, or of the entire municipality of São João da Madeira. All this in Special Conservation Areas, with unique ecosystems, which integrate priority species. What are the environmental balances imposed by APA? I ask you whether this is what the government designates as sustainable tourism. Finally, I would like to ask you a question about the risks of the Almaraz nuclear power plant to which Mr Minister has not yet had an opportunity to answer me. of the 12 radioactivity monitoring stations in Portugal, one third are not in operation, namely Bragança, Coimbra, Lisboa and Faro. Can you tell us when this problem is solved?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u74	For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u75	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in this urgent debate, in which we were invited to reflect on climate justice and the exit to crises, we stress again that it is essential that the crisis caused by the COVID-19 pandemic does not affect the global and national sustainability objectives. The confinement imposed by COVID-19 showed that there was a significant change in the daily life of the general public. The data show that pollution rates have fallen significantly, especially because the hanguling movements in particular have ceased to take place massively, which shows what the Greens have been proposing: the bet on a good public transport network, the user-friendly costs, which demobilises citizens from the daily use of the particular car. In the immediate future, it is crucial to ensure a strengthening of the supply of careers and schedules while maintaining the rule of the reduction of lotion in collective transport to gain user confidence, so as not to miss all the way already done with the reduction of the price of passes. It is necessary, of course, to identify how many localities, villages, villages are, since March, without access to any public transport and to restore these careers already! Mr. Minister, this is what's happening in my country that I'm uncomfortable. But today there is a question that is being asked: is the railway essential for decarbonisation going to the Minister and this government to be complicit at the end of the single railway link between Lisbon and Madrid? It is not backwards that we want to hear, it is the resumption of started and interrupted paths, such as encouraging citizens to use bicycle as an alternative mode of transport, and for this it is necessary to implement the National Strategy for Cycling Active Mobility 2020 - 2030. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are experiencing a moment of transition, in which the challenges are immense and where it is possible to make more sustainable policy options, with public investment, which will have far more comprehensive reflections than just decarbonisation. Betting on bicycles, encouraging and creating conditions for soft mobility will also be an investment in health and even job creation. the Government must say that responses are being given with regard to investment in cyclists and support for those who opt for this more environmentally friendly means of transport. Today, the Greens return to the street to remember that the bicycle can be one of the answers to the construction of a society that fights for sustainable development and for measures that promote quality of life and well-being. It would not be acceptable to keep everything the same. The Greens will continue to act to safeguard the environmental and economic values, the security of the population and the territory, the effective and consistent fight against climate change, which will be carried out by ensuring dignified living conditions for all peoples, which will be guaranteed with policies of peace all over the world, which will be as effective as it is in the fight against a perverse system, which feeds on the death of the planet. Only in this way will a present and a sustainable future be assured for generations to come. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u76	To conclude this second round of the debate, you have the floor for an intervention, Mr. Minister of the Environment and Climate Action, João Pedro Matos Fernandes.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u77	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I begin by thanking you for the questions that have been put to me. Mr Hugo Pires is quite right: the Socialist Party has very little to learn from what is the practice of environmental policy when the right is in government. Therefore, Mr Bruno Coimbra, it is worth comparing the speech, because I think that speech is always important when it comes to the link between what are the environmental policies of this government and what were the environmental policies of the last time the right was in the government. Mr Hugo Pires, see what the reduction in emissions is. I am sure that you are also proud, because your country has achieved it, but in the time of your government it has not been achieved. It will certainly remind you of the millions of passengers who were lost in terms of collective transport when your party was in government. at that time, collective transport companies were a financial burden, which mattered was the EBITDA(earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation andmortization) of these companies, the tenders launched with buses in second hand and necessarily diesel. That is the practice of your party when you are in government. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I am listening to you with a different speech! When, from here to many, many years, in a process of democratic alternance, your party is in the government, I hope you will do just enough for the one you are looking at right now. There is no comparison, Mr President, with the zero euros that you have invested in collective transport — and that we have changed — with a total absence of presence in the territory when it comes to taking care of the hydrographic network and natural capital. Unfortunately for the country, this was the legacy that the Social Democratic Party and the CDS left when they were in government. Mrs Maria Manuel Rola, thank you for making me younger than I am. In my high school time there was no middle school discipline, but I know, of course, what it refers to. What I didn't really understand was what I meant when I was talking about water. I really thought I wasn't talking about Portugal. [[Protests by the Member of the BE Maria Manuel Rola.]] No, the water has never been privatized, it cannot be privatized. No, in none of this government's decisions there was any consequence for the privatization of water. There wasn't. [[Protests by the Member of the BE Maria Manuel Rola.]] Mrs Deputy, I am not about the time of the Meio Study, but I am about the time when there were no local elections in Portugal, I am about the time when the local power, in fact, was not chosen by the people. So what seems to me to shock it — it really shocks! — there is, in fact, a free and democratic local power that can make its choices. [[Protests by the Member of the BE Maria Manuel Rola.]] But let me tell you something else that shocked me. Do you know what shocked me? It is that when he spoke of the examples of Barcelos and Ferreira Peace, he even spoke of bad examples. I know what we did and I know how we changed the law so that the government could have power there. It's VV. Ex.as and his party gave themselves at all to the independence of the regulatory entity. Not at all! [[P.S.'s applause.]] VV. They said that there was a very serious interference by the government in what was the regulatory authority's competence. Mrs. Deputy, the regulatory entity disagrees with you. [[Protests by the Member of the BE Maria Manuel Rola.]] And it is worth reading what was written about the willingness to reverse the concessions of Barcelos and the Peace of Ferreira, because, in fact, the Left Block ends up being responsible for what the others accuse of, having prevented any change, which could be 'belliscated', at least the doubt of independence of a regulatory entity, which you defend to the alternance and that I will never understand why. Mrs Alma Rivera, I believe that in her speech it has been far from respecting the thousands of workers who, during this time, have always worked so that the country will never stop in sectors such as the supply of water, public transport and energy. [[Protests by PCP MP Alma Rivera.]] Mr. João Gonçalves Pereira, if I had recorded all his words, I would respectfully return them to you in the answer. You have explained, in a crystal clear way, when you make a strategic environmental assessment, that is a strategic environmental assessment when you are trying to decide on a location. Now, you know very well who made the decision of the location of the airport in Montijo : it was your government. And we agreed with her and we followed her. Mr. Member, the strategic environmental assessment is made to decide whether the airport is here, there or there! You now, after all, are against the existence of any airport. All right, it is your option, it has changed your mind — this happens in life — but it must be made clear that you are against any airport. That is what you should actually tell the country. That is why I repeat: if, in fact, the location was chosen, if there had been a plan approved by VV. Ex., with large loas, called PETI ( Strategic Plan of Transport and Infrastructure ), which even has a strategic environmental assessment as a plan, there resulted in a location. And what you wanted was three more years, four years, five years to discuss, but it is clear that, when there is a definite location—it was already defined, and that the former PS government inherited— a environmental impact study was made on that location. Nevertheless, I am grateful to the honourable Member for not saying something that is said much, i.e. that a strategic environmental assessment is deeper than the evaluation of a project. That's just a lie. Mr André Silva, Portugal has been receiving European funds for many years. But for many years now, that has been the case since we entered the EEC ( European Economic Community ). And, in fact, the aim of the European Funds is to contribute to the transformation of the economy of the countries. It is therefore absolutely nuclear and essential to use European funds to objectively implement projects promoting decarbonisation in Portugal which promote the production of renewable gases and thereby also decarbonisation. I can't understand what you said. I couldn't understand the beer you made against A or B, but it's the most natural thing in the world. Mr President, if you do a search in « Carbon Neutrality Road » and if you do not do « hydrogen », to be « H2 », you will soon find several references. I am reminding myself of one, for example, very clear that 50 % of the heavy freight transport up to 2040 must be moved to H2/electricity. Find these references on several sites, as long as you do the search for the right engine. Mr President, I have no doubt that support for TAP must, within itself, have environmental concerns, and will, of course, have to do so. I want to believe that the honourable Member says well when he says that there are conditions for us to be able to come ahead and anticipate the targets we have for 2050. We have always said, Mr President, that the goals were not negotiable, but that there are obviously no projections at 30 years. Look, let's hope that we don't have any pandemics like the one we've had in 30 years, but in fact, these paths are not linear. They are not linear, and there will be times when they can accelerate and times when they cannot accelerate. We have built a Roadmap for Carbonic Neutrality, based exclusively on the technologies that exist and on those that we know that, with a huge probability, will mature within a small number of years. I want to believe that the behaviour of people, increasingly conscious, and the emergence of new technologies, can even allow this anticipation to be objectively made in an annual reduction course of 7 % — last year, we reduced 8 %, 5 %. And what do we know? That, in order to achieve this, we must continue to make the right investments, and the hydrogen project is really one of those projects. I repeat to Mrs Mariana Silva that, in fact, I feel the relevance that active mobility has here, and with very broad objectives, since, of course, we redesign cities for mobility as well, but never for the car, for what is the well-being of each of us, for cities with less noise, for cities with better air quality. thus, all the actions that we can do together with the local power, which we know well that the PCP and the ENP respect so much, we will even be able to have a country where life in cities is also healthier. If I may, in the 30 seconds before the end of this debate, allow me to express the recognition of these policies, which are on the agenda, the recognition that there is a great commitment, by the House as a whole, with the objectives which the Government has drawn up and which the country has approved, which has been, I repeat, proudly, the first country in the world to want to be carbon neutral in 2050. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u78	We turn to the end of the debate. The Minister for the Environment and Climate Action once again has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u79	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The COVID-19 pandemic began to be a public health crisis. It has become a profound economic and social crisis and has revealed weaknesses in our society that we cannot ignore. The environmental emergency, the challenges of climate change and the loss of biodiversity have not disappeared in recent months, remain urgent. Economic recovery will thus have to be a catalyst for social welfare, business competitiveness and environmental sustainability. Our conviction is that the transition to a green and fair economy can be the driving force for economic recovery. But it is not only our conviction, it is also the central message of the European Commission, which has put the European Ecological Pact at the heart of Europe's recovery strategy. The European Union recovery plan, proposed last week, provides for a new recovery instrument to reach EUR 750 billion. For what purpose? The need to build a more sustainable, more resilient and equitable Europe, putting forward a green and digital economy, and these are also our objectives, a sign of strong alignment with the European agenda. Our strategy is in line with the priorities that the European Commission has identified. This is the time to turn the crisis into an opportunity and prepare a shock of sustainable public investments in Portugal that will enable the economy to be stimulated immediately. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the European financial package aimed at mitigating the effects of the crisis is aligned with the European Ecological Pact and with the objective of carbon neutrality. Funds are available for this purpose, we will anticipate the investments that we have planned, making the environment an important engine for economic recovery and job creation. We also identified the bet on renewable energy as an opportunity to stimulate the economic recovery of Portugal. this summer we move forward with a new auction of solar capacity, continue to promote renewable energy communities and decentralized production and launch the challenge of green hydrogen production in Portugal, which will also be the engine of attracting significant private investments, wealth generation and qualified employment. We continue to have a strong incentive for sustainable and active mobility and investment in collective transport, favouring clean fleets. In addition to the important investments in the renewal of the Port and Lisbon metro stations, the purchase of green ships and the renewal of bus fleets, we are in a position to move forward, with the metropolitan authorities and with the inter-municipal communities, for new sustainable mobility solutions. We will continue to give priority to collective transport for all, also improving the air quality of our cities. in this context, we will not forget the bet on cyclovia, which we want to extend to suburban areas. We will continue our commitment in valuing the territory and the landscape, making the investments necessary for the promotion of a different and resilient forest and for the recovery of habitats. In line with the priorities identified at European level, we also want to support the energy efficiency of buildings. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the environment must be at the centre of economic recovery and must be the catalyst for investments that will enable the economy to be stimulated immediately. It also has to generate investment and long-term growth opportunities. Thus, we have defined strategic guidelines and investments that will enable us to realize this transformational change that society and the environment need. How do we do that? Building a network of mobility infrastructures and environmental infrastructures indispensable to the sustainability and connectivity of the territory; engaging in the reindustrialization of the country and the creation of employment, through the development of rows associated with renewable energies, sustainable bio-economics and endogenous resources; promoting a new vision for the enhancement of territory and natural capital, with a view to preserving biodiversity and the transformation of the landscape, betting on an orderly and resilient forest; continuing the bet on energy efficiency, ensuring the decarbonization of industries and buildings, with a view to achieving our objectives of carbon neutrality, supporting the processes of circular economy and favouring the efficient use of resources, developing greener cities, which contribute to better community living and relying on shorter chains of distribution and consumption. This is even the time to turn the crisis into a change. It is time to prove that environmental policy today does not have to be a policy of 'no' and of defending the past but, on the contrary, an active and future policy, a policy based on the creation of wealth and employment, promoting new ways of producing, consuming and protecting resources, in a model of well-being that falls within the limits of the Earth system. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u80	I also have the floor to close the debate, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u81	Mr President, Mr Minister and other members of the Government, Mr and Mr. Members: I believe that it would be possible for us to ask why there is now a debate on the environment. Now, today is the World Environment Day, which would be an easy excuse to give, but I think the reason is deeper. At least our thinking took into account a much deeper reason in marking this debate. We know that the climate crisis has not been on vacation and therefore the urgency that existed a few months ago in response to the climate crisis and the fight against climate change remains. This pandemic crisis showed how several of the climate change negationists were unmasked. Those who deny science with climate change have once again denied science in the fight against coronavirus and have therefore sacrificed the lives of their people, and today this is indisputable. When we look at the United States, with Trump, Brazil, with Bolsonaro, we know that they were the most visible faces of the negationists and we know how cost in human lives, in sacrifice of their peoples, this choice to go against science. So celebrating today's World Environment Day is saying that they have definitely lost their propaganda, this false campaign, and that we must respond necessarily and urgently to climate change. But who was also exposed in this pandemic was the myth that markets respond to the needs of the populations. We saw this in health, right here in Portugal, where the private closed doors and stopped responding to the populations. In the United States, who didn't have insurance, stayed and died at the hospital door. Markets do not respond when people need, because the only thing they want is profit, it is not the well-being of the people, it is not the well-being of the peoples, it is not the well-being of the planet. This is an important lesson, too, in response to climate change, because any strategy that says that private people are fundamental will again be saying that those who failed us in key moments will again fail the world at the key time of response to climate change. I believe, Mr Minister, that one of the reasons for this debate is to make these two conclusions very clear, these two points, because they will be fundamental to the next answer. Europe and Portugal will now enter the key debate to respond to the pandemic crisis, but also to the climate crisis: how do we recover productive capacity, how do we recover strategic centers, how do we think an economy with much shorter consumption circuits. This is a strategic thought and the novelty is that there are community funds that can be used to implement the responses of this strategic thought. And that, which is the fundamental debate, is the reason for the marking of our debate today. In other words, it was to tell the government that we are here to demand that there be profound changes in the way we think about our economy and that there are no clear answers. You cannot think of the industrialisation of Europe or the country without thinking about a change in the production model that is a matter of caution for climate change. One cannot think of investing public money without having the dimension of response to the environmental crisis from this point of view as well. And one cannot think of an economy that has not included job creation as well to ensure that people are a relevant part of this response to climate change and incorporate the debate that was already coming back there. From this point of view, discussions on issues such as energy efficiency and transition are fundamental in this area. We are also concerned about, for example, how you will think of structural investments for the country on the Government's side. This is because learning from these various crises simultaneously is not to insist on Montijo airport, for example, but on this we see no change in the government strategy. Well, that's worrying. The Minister wanted to launch an on-the-spot debate here, not so structurally, on relations with the regulatory entity. Our divergence from the government is clear and unequivocal: we differ from the government either in giving the management of bioresidues to Mota Engil, but we also diverge into a fundamental problem, which can lead municipalities to bankruptcy, as is the case with Barcelos, which has a debt of almost 200 million euros because of water to an annual budget of 60 million. And we disagree with the government when it says that the answer is to increase tariffs and the populations that follow.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u82	Don't! It's the regulator!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u83	The right to water is fundamental! [[PS protests.]] Mr Minister, I give you a very frontal and direct answer here: if you want to bring to the Assembly of the Republic a proposal that helps to put these two values on the table and balance, save the municipalities of these draconian contracts, many of them abusive in our opinion, protect the population and the right to water, if we succeed in reaching a solution in this direction, you have with the Left Block a majority to pass a proposal of these in the Assembly of the Republic. It is the Government's will in this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u84	Respecting local power, and you don't respect it!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u85	You have already exceeded your time, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u86	I'm done now, Mr. President. That is why we have submitted a proposal to create a basic climate law, because we believe that the response to the crisis must be considered. Repeating past mistakes is an option to which we can no longer afford luxury. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u87	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of the first item on our agenda. The assessment of Petition No 604 / XIII / 4 is followed. a (Sérgio Garcia et al.) — They call for measures to be taken to end wage inequalities in private social security institutions, together with, in general, Bill No. 376 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Update of the Cooperation Commitment concluded with social and solidarity sector entities in a value covering the costs of increased guaranteed minimum monthly remuneration and other factors, such as inflation, and with Resolution Projects No. 259 / XIV/1. a ( IL) — By increasing support for Integrated Continuous Care Units, 283 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends to the Government daily increases in Integrated Continued Care Units of the National Integrated Care Network, 299 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government promote a study on the financing of the IPSS, which ends with chronic sector sub-financing, takes into account regional modulation in order to correct existing asymmetries and promotes the harmonization of professional careers in the IPSS, 457 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends to the Government the flexibility of the conditions of the financing line Social Investment Credit and 482 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Promotes equality and values the wages of IPSS workers. To open the debate, Mr João Pinho de Almeida, from the CDS-PP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u88	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to greet the petitioners and say that this petition is examined today in the context of the sequence of the pandemic we live and the social response that was given to this pandemic. We value what is the role of the IPSS (private institutions of social solidarity) and what is the role of all those who develop their activity in these IPSS. It is even a happy context in view of what happened yesterday in this plenary, in which some benches have again disrespected what is an essential part of the view of the subsidiarity of the Portuguese State. There are social responses in the field that if they did not exist had left many of the most vulnerable in our country without protection, with special incidence in the elderly, who had responded during this period, because these institutions remained on the ground, active, maintained the ability to respond and often met needs with the support of the authorities, because otherwise it had not been possible. And the country appears and is always before the state and the person is before the country, and that is why we, if we have the right order of priorities, also organize our answer better if we think first about people, then in the country and, at the end, in the state. That is how we should organize our priorities to have an effective system. Regarding the one that is the wage policy of the IPSS, the CDS presents a bill that is very clear. The update that was made this year of the cooperation agreements updated them only by 3, 5 %. It happens that the mere consequence of the increase in the minimum wage leads to the increase in the current costs of these institutions being in the order of 8 %, which means that if we are introducing another difficulty in the current management of the IPSS we are obviously hampering what is the remuneration policy, the wage policy of these institutions. Therefore, it is fundamental—and that is what our bill defends—that the State should update the cooperation agreements extraordinarily so that this update does not go below the cost of increasing the minimum guaranteed remuneration and can, at least, monitor that increase of cost. We will not be able to improve the labour situation, improve the professional situation of those working in the IPSS if we continue to have an inability on the part of the Government to understand the need to support, in a fair way, the role that these institutions play in society. And if we talk about this in general, there are some of the answers that deserve specific analysis, and one of them also receives in a draft resolution that the CDS presented on the continuing care network. [[Meanwhile, Vice President José Manuel Pureza took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u89	I ask you to finish, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u90	Mr President, I conclude by saying that the National Network of Continued Care has a very serious underfunding problem that is jeopardizing its maintenance. The State must look at this specificity, update the daily lives, take into account issues such as diagnostic examinations and medicines and also have the ability to do justice to those who, on the ground, care for the most vulnerable.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u91	You now have the floor to present your initiative associated with this petition, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u92	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I think that no one is unaware of the serious financial and operational difficulties faced by integrated continuing care units that call into question their functioning and sustainability. For several years the contractual values of services with the State have been virtually frozen, while increasing the needs of care and their costs, some of them directly decreed by the State. The current health crisis has put additional pressure on these entities, providing, for example, that costs with masks, aprons, gloves, alcohol, etc. , they increase by about 300 % in this period. In view of this situation, the State, as always, protects its revenue by imposing increased tax costs such as the Single Social Tax. Several organisations operating these units will be obliged to close, compromising the provision of continuous care to thousands of people, particularly the elderly. We are no longer talking only about a clear situation of underfunding, but of exploitation of these entities by the State. These care provided by dozens of social and private sector entities, essential to the well-being and quality of life of thousands of Portuguese people in situations of great vulnerability, cannot be called into question by mere ideological whim. Therefore, the Liberal Initiative proposes day-to-day increases in these integrated continuous care units, differentiated depending on the duration of care provided and its location on the territory, as an urgent measure to ensure the provision of such care. There can be no place here for ideological prejudice, because the health of Portuguese has no ideology.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u93	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u94	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Sandra Pereira.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u95	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With regard to the petition we are present today — and I take it to greet the petitioners — the PSD has understood to present a draft resolution concerning the financing of social institutions as well as the harmonization of careers of the workers of the IPSS. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the institutions of social solidarity are rooted in Portuguese society, have recognized in the Constitution and have constituted as a partner of state excellence in combating social inequalities that is now of great relevance. From daycare valences for children, homes and daycare centres for the elderly to support people with disabilities and homeless people are these institutions that continue, in partnership with the State, social responses based on proximity. However, all of this contrasts with the underfinancing situation in which these institutions live, whose sustainability is threatened. It should be noted that the wages of workers account for about 70% of the total costs and the existing cooperation agreements are clearly insufficient for the social responses that these entities produce. The funding lines created to deal with the pandemic have quickly exhausted and have not reached the social economy organisations, compromising their response and being a solution that contributes even more to their indebtedness. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is unacceptable for the Government to be, since January, even before the epidemiological outbreak, without paying the financial commitments it has made with these institutions, and it is even more unacceptable because these entities have not interrupted the social responses with the people. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, on behalf of the social responses that these entities provide to our society, we all have a duty to look at the financing of these institutions and to ensure their sustainability. The PSD therefore proposes that the Government consider a new form of funding for this sector that addresses the specificities and regional asymmetries, including financial measures to counter them and to promote the harmonisation of professional careers in the IPSS. The PSD, in the Social Emergency Programme, recently presented, proposes, Mrs and Mrs. Members, an extraordinary update on a commitment to cooperation with the social and solidarity sector to mitigate the impact of the increase in the minimum wage, which, as you know, has caused great financial constraints to these institutions and which the Government has not yet resolved. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, I conclude by saying that, unlike other parties, who have the vision of a totalitarian and omnipresent state that does not value the individual, his associations and his organizations as complementary to his action, the PSD has social institutions and these have the PSD. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u96	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u97	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Let us begin by welcoming the more than 4000 petitioners who have subscribed to this petition, which calls for measures to be taken in order to end wage inequalities in private social security institutions, and for bringing such important issue to debate in such a fundamental area to support, above all, the most vulnerable population in our country. We accompany this petition with an initiative aimed at ensuring the financial sustainability of social economy entities such as associations, cooperatives, mutualists and IPSS, recommending that the Government promote the flexibility of the conditions of the Social Investment Credit line. The social economy entities, as mentioned above, have an absolutely fundamental role in our country, acting in a complementary way to public institutions and often ending up replacing the State with those which should be their functions, in particular in support of the most vulnerable population, such as those in poverty, homeless or even victims of some kind of discrimination or any other kind of vulnerability still present in our society. In view of this role, and at a stage when many of the entities have resorted to funding lines to continue the implementation of projects, one of them is the Credit Social Invest line, which aims to encourage the development of the social and solidarity activities of these entities that integrate the social economy sector, thus translating the recognition that this sector is undoubtedly one of the pillars of the country's economic and social development. Otherwise, it is seen that today the social economy represents more than 5, 3 % of wages and total employment and 6 % of paid employment in the national economy. Unfortunately, many of these entities have difficulty in accessing this line of financing under the conditions required, and one of the problems is that it is preventing already funded entities from accessing a second funding, although it is essential to continue their work. Then, for the purpose of the approval of the projects, the requirement for the net creation of new jobs is still required, which, in our view, should not be a condition for the approval of the financing alone. Finally, the maximum amounts of these credit lines create limitations, because of the difficulties that institutions have in having own funds, which can make the implementation of the project impossible, which is certainly not intended. We believe that these conditions are too demanding, leaving out of the funding of many entities that they need to continue their duties. These entities, which are already economically vulnerable, have seen their economic situation worsened at this stage, and access to the funding line Social Investment Credit is essential so that the institutions can continue to support all those they need. Not supporting these entities means leaving thousands of people in our country who depend on them unprotected. in this sense, with the aim of extending the number of entities covered by this support, we propose that these rules on access to Social Investment Credit be flexible, ensuring the possibility of access to a second financing, strengthening the value of the maximum amount of financing per entity, with financing of projects to 100 %, and eliminating the requirement of net job creation in the entity, as a result of the implementation of the operations, this proposal seems to us to be the most elementary justice.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u98	Mr José Moura Soeiro has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u99	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to greet the petitioners and petitioners who bring this issue to the Assembly of the Republic, on behalf of the Left Block. I think it is worth remembering, having heard the previous interventions, that this is a petition about the working conditions of the IPSS workers. There are 200 000 workers in the IPSS, more than 60 % of these workers earn the national minimum wage and one third of the IPSS workers have precarious links, i.e., they have non-permanent, temporary, term contracts, false green receipts. Every year, the State budget transfers EUR 1500 million of public funding to the IPSS through cooperation agreements through 16 000 cooperation agreements for social responses to the most diverse areas, including childhood, old age, family protection, or support for people with disabilities. But when we compare the public responses and the private, private and cooperative sector responses, which are financed by the State budget, or co-financed by the State budget, there are two things that jump into view, being one of the differences in salaries. In fact, salaries are much lower in the IPSS than in the public sector for the same answers and, in some cases—and that is why this petition draws attention—there is even a difference of €150, i.e. a worker with the same functions, if working in an IPSS earns less €150 than working in a public institution, and has more precariousness. See the blatant example of the social security lovers, who have been integrated with a permanent contract, with an effective bond, in social security, but the same ones, when working for an IPSS, continue to have false green receipts. We believe that cooperation agreements for these social responses should, of course, guarantee public funding to private institutions that provide these answers, but should also ensure, in addition to this funding, counter-compromising from the point of view of respect and the principles of public policy and criteria of demand and respect for labour law. There are 200 000 workers serving 450 000 users and we cannot continue to beat the workers in the front line in providing care, either in residential structures for elderly people, either in the home support service, either in the long-term units of integrated continuous care, either in integrated continuous care teams, which also support at home, on the one hand, valuing and recognizing that these professionals are very important, particularly in the context we are living in, and on the other hand, maintaining them with working conditions that are a deep disrespect and disregard for the value of wages and precariousness. It is incomprehensible that the same State that made PREVPAP ( Programme for the Extraordinary Regularization of Precarious Links in Public Administration ) does not require the IPSS, which gives the answers that the State then finances, to apply the same criteria. In other words, we have already proposed the vote here — and we are surprised that this has been piped — a proposal that is very simple: to say that, in the performance of these social responses, the State does not accept that the IPSS maintains, for example, false green receipts.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u100	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u101	I will finish, Mr. President. If we need to review the PROCOOP (Co-operation Cooperation Agreements for the Development of Social Responses Programme), we must review ; if there is delay in the transfer to the IPSS, these delays are met ; if there is a need for greater conditions, if the support needs to be reviewed, then we must guarantee that, but we also require compliance with labour rules and respect for the workers of this sector. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u102	The next intervention is the Parliamentary Group of the CFP. To that end, you have the floor of Mrs Vera Silver, whom the Bureau welcomes for her first intervention in plenary.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u103	Mr President, in this first speech, I would like to congratulate Mr President and the Members. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, I welcome the more than 4000 subscribers to the petition we are discussing today. I also greet all workers in the social sector who have an indispensable role in our collective life. Its professional activity is worthy and necessary in support of the population, particularly in the area of childhood and youth, in support of people with disabilities, people with poverty or social exclusion, in support of elderly people, both in homes, in day-care centres or through support of home service. These workers are faced daily with the most diverse obstacles to their rights. The pretext of the outbreak, IPSS workers were confronted with the imposition of vacation joy and then with the loss of one third of their salary through the layoff, as was the case of the College of Pio, in Évora, among others. In many institutions, hours of 12 hours were taxed without workers receiving extraordinary hours. They were obliged to comply with seven-day or 14-day care arrangements, deprived of the right to be with their families. In the current context, workers in the social sector, especially the valences of support for the elderly, were subjected to enormous pressure and exposed to enormous risks to their health and have shown the country their commitment, professionalism and dedication. These workers demonstrate daily and unequivocally that they ensure, in their entirety, essential social responses that the State does not guarantee but that it should ensure.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u104	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u105	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, wage inequalities and low wages also practised in the social sector are a deep concern for the CFP. We therefore advocate the general increase in wages as a matter of national emergency and propose the increase of the national minimum wage to €850. There are also concerns about the PCP's long working hours, the irregular hours of which these workers are target and the very extraordinary work that is not paid or going to the bank of hours. We also have concerns about the precarious links of IPSS workers, their working conditions and compliance with the standards of hygiene, health and safety at work. The injustices denounced in this petition must be corrected. For equal work, equal pay — a principle of the Constitution that must be fulfilled. It is of the utmost justice that these workers put in this petition. Collective recruitment is the fundamental instrument for overcoming these inequalities and improving the working conditions of these workers, and this is the responsibility of their representative organisations, in particular trade unions. The improvement of their working conditions is also the improvement of the services provided. The CFP will continue to intervene and fight for the lifting of living conditions for these and all workers. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u106	For an intervention on behalf of the Socialist Party, Mrs Cristina Sousa has the floor, to whom we welcome, therefore, this will also be the first intervention she will make in the plenary.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u107	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by welcoming, on behalf of the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group, the more than 4000 petitioners and petitioners who have subscribed to this petition, in the person of Mr.Sérgio Garcia. The subscribers of this initiative request the adoption of measures for the purpose of wage inequalities in private institutions of social solidarity, with the equalization of the wage tables of all employees of the IPSS to the salary table of workers in public service. I also welcome the parties presenting the legislative initiatives at this point under consideration. The social and solidarity sector has been playing a role of extreme strategic importance over the last decades with the significant expansion of the social equipment network, thus promoting an increase in social responses. It will be important to note that the Socialist Party has gone a long way towards addressing the concerns and needs of these institutions. Proof of this is the commitments made in the cooperation agreement for the biennium 2019 / 2020, with an increase of 3, 5 % of the financial participation of social security relating to the operation of social equipment and services and also considering changes to the rules in force with regard to vacancies and the number of users, within the meaning of greater stability of these institutions. It is also noted that the Government has updated the prices of care provided in the hospital and outpatient units of the continuing care network, with an update of 2, 2 % compared to the prices carried out in 2017. More recently, and given that the change in consumer price index was 0, 3 %, this percentage value was considered as a coefficient of the determination of the new prices to be in force and a further change in the table of daily value was made. at this time of pandemic, the government has defined a set of measures to support these institutions, having maintained cooperation agreements, including in situations of suspension of activities. With regard to the different wage tables, what is involved is the application of wage tables resulting from collective labour conventions held between the IPSS and trade union associations representative of workers. This is therefore the matter of collective bargaining, the exclusive competence of the above-mentioned entities. Nevertheless, it will always be noted that the strengthening of financial participation already this year aimed precisely at also enabling greater equality and value of wages for the workers of the IPSS. The strengthening and recognition of the IPSS is a priority of the Socialist Party and therefore we do not rule out the importance of a regular assessment of the balance between the competences of the IPSS and the funding allocated. However, we believe that the legislative initiatives under discussion are erroneously based on a pre-defined concept of underfinancing which disregards the fact that IPSS funding is based on cooperation agreements concluded by public tender and on objective criteria agreed with the social partners themselves. We agree with the concern about ensuring adequate funding for its activities, but we believe that this assessment should be made with the social partners and on the basis of objective criteria, in order to safeguard social responses. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u108	Mr André Ventura has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u109	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, while not wanting to be disillusioned, but being a little bit, I would say that the Members were very unhappy in the two initial speeches they made. [[PS protests.]] Don't want this to be disgusting, I repeat. [[PS protests.]] And why? In her first speech, the Member of the Socialist Party tells us that it is an interesting subject, an important issue, of the competence of collective bargaining. So basically, everything's gonna stay the way it is. [[PS protests.]] The truth is this: the government has not paid the IPSS since February. This is what should be said here today. Since February! [[It's a lie!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u110	Being true or lying... you say what you understand, but the government hasn't paid the IPSS since February. They speak to leaders of mercy throughout the whole country, that they will tell you exactly the same thing. We continue to tell you this: whether it is collective or individual negotiation, whatever it is, it is not true. The truth is that the government is leaving behind those who said it would never leave behind. [[PS protests.]] Therefore, it was of the most fundamental justice that those who did the same work in other institutions were equal.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u111	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u112	I will finish, Mr. President. To hear the CFP say 'equal work for equal wages' when for years it has left behind private institutions of social solidarity and the private sector, if it were comedy and we were not in Parliament, it would indeed be to laugh. [[PCP protests.]] There were two bad interventions.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u113	Mrs. Members, this concludes the assessment of Petition No 604 / XIII / 4. a (Sérgio Garcia et al.), together with Bill No. 376 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ), generally and with Resolution Projects Nos 259 / XIV / 1. a (IL), 283 / XIV / 1 a ( CDS-PP ), 299 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ), 457 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) and 482 / XIV / 1. a ( BE). We move on to the third point of the agenda, with the appreciation of the Petitionan. o 613 / XIII / 4. a ( National Union of Workers of Local and Regional Administration, Public Enterprises, Dealers and Affins — STAL ) — They request measures to be taken with a view to the application of the supplement of health, penosity and risk, together with the Bill No. 228 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Sets the criteria for the allocation of compensation in addition to the remuneration supplements that are based on the provision of work under risk conditions, penosity and insanity ( Tenth amendment to Law No 35 / 2014 of 20 June – General Public Works Act ), 229 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Sets the allocation scheme and the amounts of increases in supplements and other compensation based on the provision of work under conditions of risk, penosity and insanity ( Tenth amendment to Law No 35 / 2014 of 20 June 2014 — General Public Works Act ), 398 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Allocation of compensation in addition to pay supplements for work performed under risk, penosity and insanity conditions ( amendment to Law No 35 / 2014 of 20 June— General Labour Act in Public Functions), 399 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Application of the risk supplement, penosity and insanity ( amendment to Law No 35 / 2014 of 20 June— General Labour Act in Public Functions) and 401 / XIV / 1. a (BE) — Regulates the supplements of the compensations and other royalties of risk, penosity and insanity (Twelfth Sixth Amendment to the General Law on Public Works), in general. To present the legislative initiatives of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u114	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Communist Party of Portugal, I would like to greet the nearly 16,000 petitioners, the STAL, who has stimulated this petition, and the workers who are at the door of this House claiming their right to supplement insanity, pessimity and risk. I would also like to greet the thousands of local government and central government workers who, at times as difficult as we face, have been and are always there to ensure fundamental public services for the country, even in conditions of great adversity. It should be borne in mind that in this health context the CFP proposed that all workers considered essential should have a 20 % remuneration supplement, which was rejected with the votes against the PS, the PSD and the CDS and the abstentions of the CH and the IL. In addition, the current context has further highlighted the risk, penosity and health conditions that thousands of local and central government workers face daily in their work and has demonstrated the urgency of ensuring the risk supplement, penosity and insanity and other compensations. For more than 20 years, these supplements and compensations have been defined by law, depending on specific features of the work performed in local administration and central administration. The deadlines for regulating the diploma and subsequent laws have been ignored alongside the definition of these compensations. It is unacceptable that these compensations and supplements have not yet been guaranteed all this time, meaning serious damage to workers, even though the CFP has put forward proposals that resolve this problem several times in the Assembly of the Republic. It is not a privilege, but a right for those who work under risk, painful and unhealthy conditions. Of course, without prejudice to the fulfilment of all standards of hygiene, health and safety at work and to have to take a path towards reducing these risk factors and preventing the damage they cause to the health of workers, what cannot be postponed is the payment of this supplement and the guarantee of other compensations. The CFP insists today, with concrete solutions that guarantee conditions that are more favourable to workers for the work they perform in conditions of risk, penosity and insanity. There have been many warm words to these workers in recent months, but the time is to act and acknowledge to these workers that their risk conditions must be duly compensated. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u115	To present the initiative of the Parliamentary Group of the Green Party, Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u116	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: My first words are, on behalf of the Greens, to greet the thousands of citizens who have subscribed to the petition that has motivated this agenda, greeting which naturally extends to the STAL, which has promoted and stimulated the petition and through which they bring to the discussion the need to take action with a view to the application of the supplement of insanity, penosity and risk. In fact, Decree-Law No 53 -A / 98 came to regulate the conditions for the allocation of risk supplements, penosity and insanity, in addition to other forms of compensation due to the particularities of the provision of work in those conditions. It follows that the diploma has established the allocation scheme for this supplement only for the central administration, while for local authorities their regulations, which should be implemented within 150 days, has never advanced and has never left the paper. If it is true that this diploma recognises that there are certain groups of workers in the Public Administration who « exert their professional activity in situations which may cause exceptional damage to their health which must be adequately compensated », it is also true that, two decades later, these compensations are not yet being guaranteed to workers, having been exceeded and ignored all the time limits set in the legislation, which represents clear harm to those who work in risk, pessimity and insanity conditions. This means that workers continue to perform risk, pessimism and insanity functions without recognition of this condition and without any compensation. In other words, despite the work done under these conditions may cause high and/or irreversible damage to the health of workers and, in addition to the pay supplement, other forms of compensation are provided in the law, the fact is that workers in these circumstances continue without any supplement and without any compensation. Moreover, the daily work of these workers is essential for the lives of the people and this House has the responsibility and even the obligation to definitely put an end to this legislative omission and to remove this injustice that has lasted too long, with obvious and high damage to the workers. It is also noted that the risk supplement, penosity and insanity and other forms of compensation do not represent any benefit or privilege for these workers. They are, yes, compensation resulting from the execution of activities under harsh or risky conditions, being their application of the most basic justice and constituting a right of workers in these conditions and a strong contribution to the dignity of work and workers. For this reason, the Greens Ecological Party not only accompanies the concerns of petitioners, but also brings to the debate two bills that seek to respond to their claims, thus restoring a justice that has been established among us for decades. [[Congrats from the CFP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u117	To present the legislative initiative of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Joana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u118	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First, I would like to welcome the STAL and all the workers who have signed this petition and who have been fighting for a long time for the fulfilment of this right. If there is something that the pandemic has shown is that there are more painful jobs and workers who risk themselves more in the exercise of their functions, either permanently or at a tragic time like this one we live in, and these workers are indispensable. Without them, the cities stop and, without them, we are not safe in the cities and villages where we live. It was not only the doctors and nurses who deserved our respect and our thanks in this pandemic, but also the workers who collected the garbage from our streets every day, who cleaned them and disinfected them deserve our respect and our gratitude. But these workers are the worst earners in the Public Administration, they have low wages and they don't receive any more a penny for the risky and painful work they perform. Therefore, in addition to respect and thanks, these workers need rights. Not of new rights, but of rights already enshrined in the law and which must be fulfilled. The General Law on Public Works clearly states that pay supplements are due when workers, in certain jobs, suffer from more demanding working conditions. This right has existed in the law since 1998 and has never been regulated, it has never been applied. The bill presented here today by the Left Block regulates this right of civil servants, particularly officials of the local administration. The payment of this supplement naturally depends on the effective execution of tasks in terms of risk, penosity and insanity, which, in our proposal, depends on the verification of municipal chambers. The problem with the General Law is that, in recognizing the law, it has left it unregulated. And despite all the times that the Left Block came here to the House to propose to the Government the regulation of this workers' law, it has never been made. That is why the bill we present today determines the values and the form of payment and obliges the payment of this supplement. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are still in the pandemic and these workers risk very much every day to protect everyone's health and well-being. Today we have not only the possibility; today we have a duty to recognize what these workers are by law, which is compensation for work under risk conditions, penocity and insanity. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u119	You now have the floor on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the PAN, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u120	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We begin by welcoming the nearly 16 000 petitioners who have subscribed to Petition No 613 / XIII / 4. the, of the STAL initiative, which calls for measures to be taken with a view to the application of the supplement of insanity, penosity and risk, because they have brought this important issue to debate. We follow your concerns and legitimate demands. In fact, Decree-Law No 53 -A / 98 of 11 March, laid down the conditions for the allocation of risk supplements, as well as other compensations to be allocated on the basis of certain specific features of the work provided under the Public Administration. However, this diploma has never been regulated. Moreover, this diploma has been repealed by Law No 12 -A / 2008 of 27 February, which provides for the remuneration supplements as a component of the remuneration, and has not also been regulated until today. It also happens that this latter diploma was revoked by the General Law on Public Works and, with this, consecutively postponed that which is the just replacement of this kind of allowance. Currently in force, this legislation, which establishes the obligation for payment of pay supplements where risky, painful or unhealthy work is concerned, by shifts, in peripheral areas, also covers time-free and management secretariat. Despite this, legislation still does not provide for the way in which these support is to be allocated, it does not define its scope, the rules for calculation or the payment of supplements, continuing workers without the due compensation, due to the requirement of the work they provide, which is a manifest injustice. The Constitution of the Portuguese Republic provides that all workers are entitled to the organisation of work under socially dignified conditions, in order to enable personal fulfillment and to enable the reconciliation of professional activity with family life, as well as the provision of work in conditions of hygiene, safety and health. As the petitioners well point out, the supplement of insanity, penosity and risk does not constitute any privilege, it is rather a right, and should be understood as a compensation resulting from the execution of activities or tasks under harsh, unhealthy and risk conditions, even if the mandatory safety conditions for the performance of the work are met. The payment of these remuneration supplements is indeed a right of these workers, who have been assisted and denied them for more than 20 years, as a result of the existence of successive laws which provide for it without ever realizing it. This situation is unacceptable and should be corrected quickly so as not to harm these workers any more. Therefore, we follow not only this petition but also the projects under discussion today on this matter, because they go on the right path, the recognition and appreciation of workers. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u121	For an intervention, Mr José Cancela Moura now gives the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u122	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I want to offer a greeting to the more than 15 000 subscribers of this petition. The PCP, the ENP and BE bring back the debate on the regulation of the provision of work in situations of risk, penosity and insanity in local administration. I have to leave two previous notes. First of all, we are not indifferent to the condition in which these workers perform their duties, which we value, especially because they meet essential services, so we also acknowledge the kindness of the diplomas. Secondly, this regulation can and should be the subject of collective bargaining and a government commitment to trade union organisations. On this issue, however, there are two differences that separate us from the proposing parties: the lack of equity and the budgetary impact. In fact, these proposals would create an unjustified and serious inequality between workers, who, in the same condition and sometimes already with different times, would now be discriminated against on the basis of remuneration, further digging the gap between the public and the private. The sustainability of the measure is also at stake. The diplomas do not have rigor, they do not quantify the cost of the measures and certainly do not cover the so-called 'law-work'. We do not want rights that we do not know to be granted today if they can be guaranteed in the future. But these proposals, made at any price, in which the left runs to compete over those who give more, end up in themselves an exercise of political hypocrisy: in the 22 years of this legislative omission that the left has denounced, the PS has been government for 16 years and, in the last five years, the PCP, the ENP and BE, which were part of the government coalition, have passed on to a great opportunity to see these diplomas promulgated. [[PSD applause.]] Rather than compromise with the captivating that led to the unparalleled degradation of public services, instead of auctioning proposals and promising everything to everyone, it would have been better if they required the approval of these bills as exchange currency of at least one — one! — of the five budgets which have been approved. But no! It is that PCP, PEV and BE only protest, because it is easier to claim than to present solutions. It is that the PS and the government, in turn, only make advertisements and propaganda, because it is easier to promise than to carry out. Here too the PSD is different and will always be consistent with its positions. In the medium, they prove the facts, govern and decide the PSD, in extremes and on behalf of the national interest. [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] That's a heavy conscience, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u123	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u124	I will finish, Mr. President. And every time someone, as a revisionist, accuses the government prior to the previous by the courts, by the increase in taxes and sacrifices, the PSD will not tire of remembering that one day we had a government that made the party of the School Park, walked away from TGV and, more importantly, spent, until it shut down hand extended to the Community's external aid. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u125	Mr Fernando Paulo Ferreira of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u126	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by greeting all and all petitioners. I recall, Mr Cancela Moura, that the left parliament and the Government have been restoring income and rights to workers that the PSD/CDS-PP government had withdrawn in the last five years. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] Mr Cancela Moura and the entire right-hand side of parliament, we would once again spend five years restoring income and rights to workers, which you have withdrawn. As for that, we are clear. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Today, in this House, a petition and several bills are discussed in this House that intend to regulate the supplements for the provision of work under special conditions of insanity, penosity or risk by women and men who, in general careers in public functions, among other tasks, collect solid urban waste daily, ensure the operation of cemeteries or the good conditions of sanitation and wastewater treatment systems. We recall that during the pandemic situation that we are going through, these professionals have always continued to ensure the regular functioning of society, even during periods of great confinement of the population. Now, there is a great heterogeneity of functions within the same category in the general careers of public service,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u127	Which one? Oh, my
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u128	... whose objective working conditions are very different, presenting some of them, due to their inevitable nature, special risks, insanity or penosity. The PS has been working for a long time in valuing the careers of public service and workers in general, resting and increasing incomes and rights, whenever conditions in the country allow it. This is what our permanent commitment to the justice, equity and protection of workers and the government's responsibility to ensure that the continuity and sustainability of these same rights remain in the future. Therefore, for the time being, Members of the Socialist Party feel that, within the scope of the autonomy of the local power, this can be the opportunity to create a standard on the allocation of supplements by risk, insanity and pelvis by the authorities, to which it should be allowed to decide on this matter in view of their own budgets and political options, without having to wait for the decision of the central State. As a result of the opinion presented in the respective committee, a blind decision on these proposals affects labour law, contrary to budgetary rules and, as such, it is not possible. It is therefore necessary to ensure that decisions can be implemented, in which the PS is committed. In conclusion, Mr President, first of all, we believe that it is possible to reach a decision by the local authorities on the additions to be allocated to their own workers; and secondly, we believe that we are in a position to find an extended parliamentary consensus that, within a nearby budgetary framework and within possible time, changes to all the workers of the State integrated into general careers whose working conditions present special risks arising from their insanity or penosity. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u129	You now have the floor for an intervention by Mrs Cecilia Meireles of the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u130	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to begin by congratulating the almost 16,000 petitioners, which demonstrates the representativeness of the issue we are discussing today. We are faced with a subsequent diploma and legislation that provides for a supplement for health, penosity and risk. This supplement, although it is planned in several diplomas, has in fact never been regulated, which means that, for decades—and now we are talking about decades—as there was no regulation, this supplement has not been paid. Naturally, workers covered by this legislation are called for their regulation and payment. And from this point of view, it seems to me that, if the law exists, it has to be regulated. Therefore, it will not be by the CDS that this regulation will be hindered. The principle is that what exists and is in the law must be regulated. If it exists and it is to regulate, then the regulation must be made. Therefore, we will not be obstructing the initiatives. But, said this, there is a care here that cannot and should not be forgotten—and it does not only have to do with the labour law, because it would be easy to solve, since, next week, a supplementary budget will be introduced here—which is that there must be criteria of justice and fairness between all workers, whether local administration or central administration. It must not happen that, in certain municipalities, workers do the same thing as others in another municipality next to them receive two or three times more. from our point of view, this makes no sense, nor does it make sense that in Portugal there are systematically two regimes, one for the public and one for the private. [[Protests from BE MP Joana Mortagua.]] There must be fairness and justice among all workers and not only among workers in the public sector. That is why and in that light the budgetary issue is important. Without entering into the discussion that we have already had hundreds of times about the past, I am not surprised whenever I see that, apparently, all the Members of the Socialist Party's bench are convinced that the Socialist Party was founded in 2015 and that there was nothing in the Socialist Party before 2015. [[PS protests.]] Indeed, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, if I had your past I was also ashamed of him, but I do not have and I am very proud of my own and the time that my party spent in the government that saved the country from bankruptcy in which you left it. [[Congrats from PSD Member Paulo Neves.]] [[PS and BE protests.]] I would end by saying only the following to the Socialist Party, because this is important: you came here to talk about rights and royalties. You know what they didn't talk about? They did not speak of many millions of Portuguese people who are currently in layoff receiving two-thirds of what they received. What will they find of this debate, in which they discuss rights and royalties and a country in which there are no courts? For them, there are cuts in the country. We are all Portuguese and, as such, we must legislate. [[Congrats from PSD Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u131	Mr Ventura has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u132	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Once again, we have more of the same regulation. We have a set of projects that have been regulated for years, a legal framework already defined and a government that cannot carry it out. I understand that the Socialist Party is upset with this and therefore always has the same argument: « we in 2011... », « we in 2009... », « we in 2001... », « we in April 25... », « we in 1976... », « we in 1983... », « we in 1986... ». It is, in fact, very little to say in recent years. There's nothing new! In fact, the non-regulated risk and health allowance will give to the same because the Socialist Party itself, which allowed a risk allowance for the police to be approved in 2018, has led him to the State Budget for this year. So it's a little bit more than the one we're used to. It's true! It was seen in all the social communication: « PSP union criticises Parliament for having dropped the risk allowance ». It's more of the same in the Socialist Party! Therefore, we can say, whenever we want, that we have much pride in the past, that we have made history in the past, because, My Lords, if we do not make the future, one day, none of us will be here. What people want is the future, is to know what they can count on.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u133	You would like to finish, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u134	There is no risk allowance, no health insurance and, in some cases, social risk supplements would embarrass any democratic country in the world and, above all, any European democratic country. The Socialist Party, in this matter, should lay its hands on consciousness.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u135	Mr Diana Ferreira of the CFP, for a small intervention, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u136	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would just like to remind you that these workers have been waiting for a proposal that has already been in law for more than 20 years. And, Mr Cancela Moura, the CFP, having not been in the government, has managed to restore and guarantee more rights and income to workers. On the other hand, the PSD, together with the CDS, will take the government award that has destroyed the most rights and incomes of workers in our country. [[PCP applause.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we note that there is availability...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u137	Mrs. Deputy, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u138	I'm really finishing up, Mr. President. As I was saying, we note that there is availability in this House to guarantee these rights to these workers and we are available to, in the specialty, find solutions. But let this be resolved once and for all and that the successive delays in guaranteeing this right to these workers, who work in conditions of risk, insanity and penosity, must be duly compensated. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u139	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, on the fourth point of our agenda is draft resolution No 491 / XIV / 1. a ( PAR) — Assessment of the implementation of the state of emergency, declared by Decree of the President of the Republic No 14 -A / 2020 of 18 March but without time for debate, so we will proceed to the period of statutory votes. He asked everyone and everyone to occupy their places and the people who are standing in favor of sitting down.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u140	Mr President, I beg your pardon, will you allow me to speak?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u141	Do you ask for the floor to what effect, Mr. André Ventura?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u142	Mr President, I would just like to make an inquiry to the Bureau about the vote of regret, for the death of Winston Rodrigues, which was presented by the Arrival and which does not appear in the vote script to be held today.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u143	Mr President, the information that the Bureau has is that the vote has dropped to 1. the Commission, for its assessment, as in fact happens with the generality of votes. This is the information I have and I can't tell you anything more about it.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u144	Mr President, I apologize for returning to this matter, I do not want to be insistent, apart from the fact that I know that it does not have to do with this subject directly, but it was - I told us, the last time we were here, that the reason for doing this outside the Rules of Procedure was that there were several votes and they had to be harmonized. Now, this time, there are no several votes to harmonise. So, two, one : either Parliament assumes that it will send all the votes of regret to committee or, then, we have to understand ourselves. It is that, last time, the excuse, and no longer worth much, was that there were several votes and they had to be harmonized, but now,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u145	Mr President, the information I have given you is that which the Bureau has available, and I will therefore not be able to give you any further facts to appreciate. On this subject,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u146	Mr President, we intend to appeal to the plenary.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u147	... what I can tell you is that a situation like the one you are describing should be appreciated at the Leaders Conference in order to be able to make a decision. That is what must in fact be done, and it will be done, so that there is no stumbling block to any rule. Let us therefore proceed to the vote on the Rules of Procedure. The quorum verification was carried out in a timely manner, with 211 Members present, so we have more quorum than enough to carry out the votes. We begin by voting on draft resolution No. 491 / XIV / 1. a ( PAR) — Assessment of the implementation of the state of emergency, declared by Decree of the President of the Republic No 14 -A / 2020 of 18 March 2020. The Liberal Initiative called for a vote on points of this draft resolution, so we started by voting on points 1 to 5. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] We will now vote alone on point 6 of the Resolution Project No. 491 / XIV / 1. a ( PAR). [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN and CH and with abstentions from the PCP, PEV, IL and Member not registered Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We shall vote on point 7 of the same motion for a resolution. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, CDS-PP and PAN and votes against the PCP, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We will generally vote on draft resolution No 172 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Construction of health unit of the High Seixalinho, in the Town Hall of Barreiro. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the NAP, the ENP, the CH and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira and the PSD and IL abstentions.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u148	Mr President, I beg your pardon, will you allow me to speak?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u149	Do you ask for the floor to what effect, Mr?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u150	Mr President, I would just like to announce that the PS Members elected by the Setúbal electoral circle will present a vote on this vote and the others on the same subject.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u151	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. The general vote on draft resolution No 215 / XIV / 1. a (BE) — Construction of a new health unit in the Upper Seixalinho, in the Town Hall of Barreiro, and allocation of a family doctor to all users. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of BE, the CFP, the PAN, the ENP, the CH and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and PS, the PSD, the CDS-PP and the IL.]] Mrs. Members, this draft resolution, as the previous one, is down to 9. the Commission. We shall also vote in general on draft resolution No 277 / XIV / 1. a (PEV) — For a new health center in the Upper Seixalinho, in the Barreiro. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the PEN, the PEN, the CH, the IL and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira and the PSD abstention.]] Having been adopted, this draft resolution also goes down to 9. the Commission. We turn to the general vote on draft resolution No 411 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — The construction of the new health centre in the Upper Seixalinho, in the Barreiro. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and PS and CDS-PP abstentions.]] The draft resolution that we have just voted down, in the same way, to 9. the Commission. We will vote for draft resolution No 486 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen the support and relaunch of tourism in Portugal in the context of the consequences of the COVID-19 pandemic. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PSD, CDS-PP, CH and IL and with abstentions from BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and MP not registered Joacine Katar Moreira.]] The general vote of Bill No 377 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Suspends Articles 16. o and 40. the Financial Act of the Autonomous Regions, in order to provide autonomous regions with all the financial means possible to cope with the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic. [[The vote was put to the vote in favour of the PSD, the BE, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the ENP, the CH, the IL and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PS and the abstention of the NAP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u152	Mr President, I beg your pardon, will you allow me to speak?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u153	Do you ask for the floor to what effect, Mr?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u154	Mr President, I just want to inform you that the members of the PS elected by Madeira voted in favour.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u155	Then, in this case, we will repeat the result of the vote of Bill No. 377 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ). [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PEV, CH, IL, non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and PS Deputies Carlos Pereira, Marta Freitas and Olavo Câmara, votes against the PS and the NAP abstention.]] Having been approved, the bill goes down to 5. the Commission. We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 378 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Suspension of payment of charges arising from the PAEF loan of the Autonomous Region of Madeira in order to provide the Region with all the financial means possible to cope with the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PEV, CH, IL, non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and PS Deputies Carlos Pereira, Marta Freitas and Olavo Câmara, votes against the PS and the NAP abstention.]] This bill also falls to 5. the Commission. Let's now vote, generally, Bill No. 408 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Establish exceptional and temporary measures to support the economy of autonomous regions by suspending the application of Articles 16. o and 40. the Law of the Finances of the Autonomous Regions. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL, non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and PS Deputies Carlos Pereira, Marta Freitas and Olavo Camera and votes against the PS.]] Mrs. Members, this bill also goes down to 5. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u156	Mr President, may I take the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u157	Ask for the floor to what effect, Mrs. Member?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u158	Mr President, I would like to announce that the PS Members elected by the Azores election circle will present a statement of vote on the last three votes that we have just held.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u159	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mr. Carlos Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u160	Mr President, I would also like to inform you that the PS Members elected by Madeira's electoral circle will make a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u161	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We will now vote, in general, on Bill No. 347 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Creates support for the income of individual micro-enterprises and entrepreneurs in the context of the response to the COVID-19 epidemic. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD and CDS-PP abstentions.]] The general vote of Bill No. 348 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Establishs the exceptional and temporary measure of the admissibility of suspension of essential service supply contracts in the context of responses to the epidemic crisis of COVID-19. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and IL were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, ENP and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD, CDS-PP and CH.]] Mrs. Members, before we proceed to the vote, I should like to inform you that Mr Sérgio Marques of the PSD, who is present at the session via Skype, will make a joint vote statement on the Lein 377, 378 and 408 / XIV / 1. a. That is how it is properly recorded. We now proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 349 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Establish the network of contact and support to micro-enterprises and individual entrepreneurs for access to response measures for the epidemic by COVID 19. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the CH and the IL.]] We will generally vote for Bill No 350 / XIV / 1. a ( CFP ) — Establishs fiscal measures to support micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. [[The vote was put to the vote in favour of the PSD, the BE, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the ENP, the CH, the IL and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PS and the abstention of the NAP.]] Therefore, this initiative goes down to 5. the Commission. We then vote in general on Bill No. 351 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Ensure access by micro, small and medium-sized enterprises and individual entrepreneurs to public support created in response to the outbreak of COVID-19. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, doPSD and the CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the BEE, the PCP, the PAN, the PEV, the CH, the IL and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We shall now proceed to the general vote on Bill No 366 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — It creates the regime of support for the resumption and dynamization of the activities of the vendors in the supply to the populations in the context of the response to the COVID-19 epidemic. [[The vote was taken in favour of BE, the PCP, the ENP, the CH and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and PS, the PSD, the CDS-PP, the PAN and the IL.]] It goes down to 6. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u162	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u163	Mr. André Silva, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u164	Mr President, I would like to inform you that we will deliver a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u165	Mr. Deputies, you are duly registered. Mr. André Ventura, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u166	Mr President, it is for the same purpose. I shall deliver a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u167	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We then vote in general on Bill No. 416 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Determines the ineligibility of payments on account and special payments within IRC and IRS in 2020. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP, the CH and the IL and the abstention from the NAP.]] We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 417 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — establishes the possibility of suspension of essential service supply contracts by micro, small and medium-sized enterprises in the context of the SARS-COV-2 epidemic. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the CH and the IL were cast in favour of BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We will generally vote for Bill No. 418 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Establishs special support measures for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises in the context of the SARS-Cov-2 epidemic. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from BE, CH and IL.]] We then have the general vote on Bill No. 421 / XIV / 1. a (IL) — All IRC PPC companies are exempt and enables reimbursement from the CFP which has not been deducted. [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira, votes in favour of PSD, CDS-PP, CH and IL and with abstentions from BE, PCP, PAN and ENP.]] We then vote in general on Bill No. 431 / XIV / 1. a (BE) — Measures to support fun and catering travelling companies. [[The vote was taken in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, CDS-PP, PEV, CH and Non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and IL.]] Therefore, this initiative goes down to 6. the Commission. We now have the general vote on Bill No. 432 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Creates a special incentive scheme for the activity developed by fairs and markets. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, ENP, CH, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and NAP abstention.]] This initiative also falls to 6. the Commission. We turn to the general vote on draft resolution No 464 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Establishment of a possible committee to monitor the implementation of response measures to the COVID-19 epidemic. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the CH, the IL and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and PS, BE, PCP and the ENP.]] The draft resolution that we have just voted down to 6. the Commission. We will generally vote for Resolution No. 468 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Establishs a possible committee to monitor the process of economic and social recovery. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PSD, PAN, IL and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira and Abstaining from BE, PCP, CDS-PP, ENP and CH.]] This draft resolution also goes down to 6. the Commission. We moved on to the Resolution Project No. 479 / XIV / 1. a ( NAP) — Establishment of a possible committee for monitoring and evaluating the effectiveness, budgetary impact and transparency of the response and recovery measures of the health, economic and social crisis caused by COVID-19. Let's vote for it in general. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CDS-PP, the NAP, the CH of the IL and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstains from BE, PCP and ENP.]] We are going to vote, in general, on draft resolution No 447 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government not support polluting industries in the context of the COVID-19 crisis. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD, PCP, CDS-PP and CH were rejected, votes against the NAP, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstain from BE and ENP.]] We turn to the general vote on draft resolution No 430 / XIV / 1. a (PEV) — Recommends that the Government do not rescue large polluting industries in the period of influence of COVID-19 and in the relaunch of the economy. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP and CH and votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected.]] We shall then vote on a request by the PSD for discharge to the Committee on Budgets and Finance, without a 45-day vote of the Bill No 15 / XIV / 1. a ( ALRAM ) — Amendment is made to the Code of the Tax on the Income of Single Persons, approved by Decree-Law No 442 -A / 88 of 30 November, for the elimination of taxation at IRS on compensation and subsidies taken by Portuguese firefighters in the provision of voluntary service. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The next vote will therefore be adversely affected. We also voted for a request by the NAP, asking the Committee on Labour and Social Security to be discharged without a 60-day vote of Bill No. 413 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Ensure fair treatment for volunteer firefighters ( Amended Decree-Law No 442 -A / 88 of 30 November, Decree-Law No 87 / 2019 of 2 July, and Decree-Law No 55 / 2006 of 15 March ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We now proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 376 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Update of the Cooperation Commitment concluded with social and solidarity sector entities at a value covering the costs of increasing guaranteed minimum monthly remuneration and other factors such as inflation. [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira, votes in favour of PSD, CDS-PP, PAN, CH and IL and abstentions by BE, PCP and ENP.]] We are going to vote, in general, on draft resolution No. 259 / XIV / 1. a (IL) — by increasing support for integrated continuing care units. [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, the BE and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira, votes in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the CH and the IL and abstentions of the PCP and the ENP.]] We now vote, in general, on Resolution Project No. 283 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government increase daily in Integrated Continued Care Units of the National Integrated Care Network. [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, the BE and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira, votes in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the CH and the IL and abstentions of the PCP and the ENP.]] Then we will generally vote on the Draft Resolution No. 299 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government promote a study on the financing of the IPSS that ends the chronic sub-financing of the sector, comply with regional modulation in order to correct existing asymmetries and promote the harmonisation of professional careers in the IPSS. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CDS-PP, the PAN and the CH and abstains from BE, the PCP, the PEV, the IL and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We proceed to vote, in general, on draft resolution No 457 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Recommends to the Government the flexibility of the conditions of the financing line Social Investment Credit. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CDS-PP, the NAP, the CH and the IL and abstentions of BE, the PCP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We now have the Resolution Project No 482 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Promotes equality and values the wages of IPSS workers. Let's vote for it in general. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, ENP and MP not included Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against PS and IL, and abstentions from the CDS-PP and CH.]] This initiative that we just voted down to 10. the Commission. We then have three requirements, respectively, submitted by the PCP, the ENP and BE, all of them in the sense of falling to the Public Administration Commission, Administrative Modernization, Decentralization and Local Power of Law Projects Nos 228 and 229 / XIV/1. a ( PCP ), 398 and 399 / XIV / 1. a (PEV) and 401 / XIV / 1. a (BE), without a vote. The PCP and ENP bills for a 30-day period and for a 45-day period the BE bill. I wonder if we can vote for them together. [[Pause.]] There is no opposition, so it will be done. We then jointly vote on the request submitted by the CFP, requesting the discharge to the Committee on Public Administration, Administrative Modernization, Decentralization and Local Power, without voting for 30 days of Bill No. 228 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Sets the criteria for the allocation of compensation in addition to the remuneration supplements that are based on the provision of work under conditions of risk, penosity and insanity ( Tenth amendment to Law No 35 / 2014 of 20 June 2014 — General Public Works Act) and 229 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Sets the allocation scheme and the amounts of increases in supplements and other compensation based on the provision of work under conditions of risk, penocity and insanity ( Tenth amendment to Law No 35 / 2014 of 20 June 2014 — General Law on Public Works; a request submitted by the ENP, requesting the discharge to the Committee on Public Administration, Administrative Modernization, Decentralization and Local Power, without voting for 30 days of Law Projects No 398 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Allocation of compensation in addition to pay supplements for work performed under risk, penosity and insanity conditions ( Amendment to Law No 35 / 2014 of 20 June— General Law of Labour in Public Functions) and 399 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Application of the risk supplement, penosity and insanity ( Amendment to Law No. 35 / 2014 of 20 June— General Law on Public Works) ; and the application, submitted by BE, requesting the discharge to the Committee on Public Administration, Administrative Modernization, Decentralisation and Local Power, without voting for 45 days of the Bill No. 401 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Regulates the supplements of compensation and other royalties of risk, pesosity and insanity (Twelfth Sixth Amendment to the General Law on Public Works). [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] So we now take a leap in the vote script and turn to page 19. We generally vote on the Resolution Project No. 261 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends strict control of landfills and measures to ensure the drastic reduction of waste channelled to landfill in Portugal. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP, CH and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PAN and other non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and PCP and ENP abstentions.]] We moved on to the Resolution Project No. 288 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government reduce landfill and closure of all landfills which do not meet the operating requirements. Let's vote for it in general. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, the CFP, the NAP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD, the CDS-PP, the CH and the IL.]] We will generally vote for Resolution No. 305 / XIV / 1. a (PV) — Privilege the policy of the 3 ‘R’ to the detriment of end-of-line solutions. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against PS and CDS-PP and CH abstentions were approved.]] The initiative we just voted on is low to 11. the Commission. We turn to the general vote on draft resolution No 319 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Strengthening of information, inspection and monitoring of waste management activities and conditioning of landfill deposition. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the PSD were rejected, votes against the EPC, the CFP, the NAP, the ENP, the IL and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and CDS-PP and CH abstentions.]] We will generally vote on draft resolution No. 431 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government ensure the quality of service of landfills in Portugal. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the CH and the PSD, the CDS-PP, the IL and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira.]] This draft resolution which we have just voted down to 11. the Commission. We turn to the general vote on draft resolution No 463 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government promote a broad assessment of urban waste management systems throughout the country, with a view to correcting the inconsistencies that compromise and may compromise the efficiency of the sector and the quality of life of the populations. [[The vote was put to the vote in favour of the PSD, the BE, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the NAP, the ENP, the CH and the IL, the votes against the PS and the abstention of the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira.]] The initiative goes down to 11. the Commission. We now vote on the Resolution Project No. 496 / XIV / 1. a ( Nsc. ) — Action plan for the drastic reduction of waste. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP, CH and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PAN and other non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and PCP and ENP abstentions.]] We turn to the general vote on draft resolution No 264 / XIV / 1. a (BE) — Recommends the modernisation of the air quality monitoring network. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The initiative goes down to 11. the Commission. We now vote, in general, on Resolution Project No. 287 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government take measures to improve national air quality. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against PS.]] The initiative is also down to 11. the Commission. We then generally vote on draft resolution No 320 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Strengthening of information, monitoring and characterization of ambient air quality in Portugal. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against PS.]] The initiative goes down to 11. the Commission. We will generally vote for Resolution No. 410 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends to the Government the review and modernisation of the network of stations and substations for monitoring air quality in Portugal and the development and implementation of the Air Quality Improvement Plans provided for in the National Air Quality Strategy, as well as the development of an annual plan for mitigating impacts caused by air pollution to ensure the improvement of air quality throughout the national territory. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against PS.]] The initiative therefore falls to 11. the Commission. The general vote on draft resolution No 474 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government promote improved air quality in Portugal. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The initiative goes down to 11. the Commission. We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 498 / XIV / 1. a ( Nsc. ) — Urgent action plan for air quality. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and IL were rejected in favour of the PSD, BE, PAN, ENP and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and PCP, CDS-PP and CH.]] We will generally vote for Resolution No. 436 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government take measures to defend the river Tejo. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PSD, CDS-PP, PAN, CH and IL and with abstains from BE, PCP, PEV and non-registered MPJoacine Katar Moreira.]] The initiative goes down to 11. the Commission. We turn to the general vote on draft resolution No 451 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends to the Government measures to defend the sustainability of the river Tejo and to comply with the Resolution of AR No 63 / 2019. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PSD, CDS-PP, PAN, CH and IL and with abstains from BE, PCP, PEV and non-registered MPJoacine Katar Moreira.]] The initiative goes down to 11. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u168	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u169	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u170	Mr President, I just wanted to give the indication that we will present a statement of vote on the last two votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u171	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We shall now proceed to the general vote on draft resolution No 275 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of cross-border measures to combat racism. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MPJoacine Katar Moreira, the vote against the CH and the abstention from the IL.]] The initiative goes down to 1. the Commission. [[Pause.]] In the meantime, Mr Ventura informed the Bureau that he intended to make an oral vote on this vote at the end of the vote. We turn to the general vote on draft resolution No 292 / XIV / 1. a (BE) — Recommends the development and implementation of a national strategy to combat racism. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, ENP, IL and MP not registered Joacine Katar Moreira and the vote against CH.]] The initiative goes down to 1. the Commission. We will now vote in general on draft resolution No 458 / XIV / 1. a ( Nsc. ) — National campaign to renew the anti-racist pact in Portuguese society. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MPJoacine Katar Moreira, the vote against the CH and the abstention from the IL.]] The initiative is also down to 1. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u172	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u173	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u174	Mr President, to inform the Bureau that I shall present a statement of vote on the vote on the last three diplomas.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u175	It is duly registered, Mr. Mr António Filipe, would you like to speak for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u176	Mr President, I would also like to announce the delivery of a statement of vote on the vote on the draft resolution by the non-registered Member. In addition, I would like to point out to the Bureau that these draft resolutions have already been discussed in 1. the Commission, having the parties stated that there is no common text and that each project was luckyly separated. I therefore believe that the procedure will be concluded with these votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u177	You're absolutely right, Mr. Deputies. True, I myself am a witness to this because I participated in this meeting. It shall be duly marked and proceed-CL as referred to. We shall then proceed to the overall final vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on Budget and Finance on the Proposal for a Law No 1 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves the new legal regime for the establishment and operation of pension funds and pension fund managers, transposing Directive ( EU ) 2016 / 2341. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, PAN and IL, votes against BE, PCP and ENP and abstentions from CDS-PP, CH and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We now proceed to the overall final vote of the final text, presented by the Committee on Education, Science, Youth and Sport on draft resolutions Nos 105 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — By setting up an early intervention recruitment group, 173 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recommends that the Government create the recruitment group in the area of early intervention and 207 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — The creation of an early intervention recruitment group. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against PS.]] Finally, we have the final overall vote of the final text presented by the Committee on Education, Science, Youth and Sport on draft resolutions Nos 152 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends Requalification of Basic School 2, 3 Dr. António Augusto Louro, Grouping of Schools Dr. António Augusto Louro, 178 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recommends that the Government requalify the Basic School Dr. António Augusto Louro, in the municipality of Seixal, 315 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government schedule and implement the urgent withdrawal of the existing fibration plates in the coverages of EB 2, 3 Dr. António Augusto Louro, of Seixal, and programmes the necessary requalification works and 322 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government urgently re-qualify the Basic School Dr. António Augusto Louro, in the municipality of Sixal, and disclose the schedule of asbestos fiber removal interventions in school equipment. [[Submitted to the vote, it was approved, with votes in favour of PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against PS and abstentions from PS André Pinotes Batista, Catarina Marcelino, Clariste Campos, Eurídice Pereira, Filipe Pacheco and Maria Antónia de Almeida Santos.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u178	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u179	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u180	Mr President, I wanted to change the meaning of the NAP for Bill No 350 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ). Although we have given the indication that we abstained, our vote is in favour.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u181	It is duly registered, Mr. Mr. Miguel Matos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u182	Mr President, I would like to announce the presentation of a statement of vote on behalf of the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group on the vote on draft resolutions Nos 430 and 447 / XIV / 1. a
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u183	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs Clarisse Campos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u184	Mr President, with regard to the last vote to be taken, the six Members of the PS Parliamentary Group elected by the Setúbal circle will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u185	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, regarding the request made by Mr Ventura to make an oral vote, as examined by the Rules of Procedure, it is found that in Article 155. paragraph 3 states that oral explanations of vote are attributed only to parliamentary groups, which means that only written explanations of vote are admitted to individual or non-registered Members. That is what is in the Rules of Procedure, and I am therefore sorry that I have not been able to interpret it properly. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I have to announce the agenda for the next plenary session, which will be on 8 June, beginning at 3 p.m. At first, we will have political statements. The second point will be followed by the assessment of Petition No 639 / XIII / 4. a ( Common Front of Public Administration Unions ) — They request the adoption of measures to ensure the proportionality of the levels of the single remuneration table, together with Resolution Projects Nos 481 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends that the Government review the single remuneration table with a view to ensuring proportionality levels and 489 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — For the urgent negotiation of the single remuneration table of the Public Administration with a view to ensuring its proportionality. Finally, at the third point, Petition No 609 / XIII / 4 will be appreciated. a ( Ana Raquel Oliveira Lima et al.) — They request the regulation of the profession of Portuguese-language interpreter, together with, in general, the Bill No 402 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Amends Law No 89 / 99 of 5 July, which defines the conditions for the access and exercise of the activity of the Gesture Language Interpreter and with Resolution Projects No 412 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — By regulation of the profession of Portuguese Gestive Interpreter and 422 / XIV / 1. a (PV) — Measures to achieve the rights of deaf persons and to enhance the Portuguese-language interpreter profession. Before the session is closed, the Secretary for Bureau Maria da Luz Rosinha will report to the Members. Members who were present by videoconferencing, so I would be grateful if they would listen very carefully.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u186	Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, in accordance with the new rules of operation, it should be reported that you were present by video conference at today's plenary meeting. Members of the PS João Azevedo Castro and Paulo Porto, elected respectively by the electoral circles of the Autonomous Region of the Azores and outside Europe, and the PSD Member Sérgio Marques, elected by the electoral circle of the Autonomous Region of Madeira.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-05.u187	Now, yes, I wish everyone and everyone a good weekend. We meet again on the next day 8. The session is closed. [[It was 13 hours and 17 minutes.]]
