ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, Mrs. Officers of the authority, the session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 3 minutes.]] I request you to open the galleries to which you are authorized to attend this session. Before we begin our work, I ask Secretary Nelson Peralta to report the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members have entered the Bureau and have been admitted, the following legislative initiatives: Bill No. 569 / XIV / 2. a (PEV), 570 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ), 571 / XIV / 2. a ( BE), 572 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) and 573 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) ; Resolution Projects Nos 731 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN), 732 / XIV / 2. a ( PAR), 733 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ), 734 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN), 735 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ), 736 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ), 737 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ), 738 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ), 739 / XIV / 2. a ( CH) and 740 / XIV / 2. a ( CH) ; and Draft Deliberation No 11 / XIV / 2. a ( PAR). That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u3	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary Nelson Peralta. of the first item on today's agenda is, corresponding to a citizen initiative, the assessment of draft resolution No 679 / XIV / 2. a ( Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees ) — Proposals for a referendum on the penalty of death on request. Opening the debate, you have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Monica Quintela, from the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: My first words go to my parliamentary group, which has given freedom of vote in this matter. This allows me to be myself, as I have always been, free — or not I am a lawyer — with the weight and responsibility that freedom has to bear and that I have never cast, nor will I cast. Having said this, we are debating today the draft referendum resolution with a view to the popular consultation on the ( des) penaltyization of death on request. As elected Members of the Assembly of the Republic, we will have to decide whether we renounce the mandate of representation that has been given to us and we extend the decision and responsibility to the Portuguese in such a complex matter as this one or whether we comply with the constitutionally planned representative democracy for which we have been elected. Everything is in place so that it will be the Assembly of the Republic to decide on this matter, from the outset because the rights, freedoms and guarantees are not referenceable and Parliament is its own seat to legislate on fundamental rights.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u5	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u6	A referendum on, for example, the right to life or the freedom to form a family or the right to work is unimaginable. Because human rights are innate, inviolable and inalienable, they are intrinsically linked to their holder and confer dignity upon the human person. And only this, that is, each of us, can measure every moment as you want or can make use of them. This is called freedom, the supreme value, in addition to life. Freedom to choose, for example, whether or not you want to continue to endure inexorable and meaningless suffering. There are those who want and don't want, or they can't. And I say « no longer manages», because it is not just a matter of will; only in the face of concrete circumstances is we can know what things are and what the harsh reality of each one is. It says the old adagio that « peppers in the mouth of others is refreshment», Mr and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. It is worth saying that it is easy to think about the circumstances of the lives of others and what they should or should not do. But the comfort of our consciences cannot have as counterpoint the despair that the imposition of our will causes to others. And here again and again I stand in the idea that my freedom ends where others begin and that, being concerned with fundamental rights, I do not have the right to prohibit what is part of that core of those rights which is beyond the restrictions and understandings necessary for life in society and which, therefore, is absolutely inalienable and unsusceptible of interference by third parties. As Francisco Sá Carneiro said, true democracy must respect the convictions of its citizens and the rule of democratic law must be the guarantor of this plural, tolerant and humanist society, where everyone can freely express and live their deepest convictions. These issues have been widely discussed in recent years, with arguments in favour and against, motivating bold and passionate defenses and not always using rational arguments, which does not help to clarify citizens in a matter involving so many emotions, values, personal experiences and even religion itself. The complexity and sensitivity of the subject matter in question requires broad and clear discussion and serenity in decision-making. The subject is difficult from a number of points of view and requires specific knowledge in several areas in order to be well framed. Portugal is a secular Republic, so the approach must, of course, be removed from any religious conceptions, whatever they are, and decisions must be taken in obedience to an objectively rational analysis. Therefore, the Assembly of the Republic is the seat for discussion and work on the subject of decriminalization of drug-assisted death, either as an option of legislation on criminal policy or, above all, because the Assembly of the Republic has complete democratic legitimacy to do so. It is composed of members elected by the Portuguese in a system of representative democracy, which mirrors the multiple sensibilities of our population. It also has the acquis collected in the context of previous discussions on euthanasia, with hearings and opinions of the various entities and personalities that have been heard, which is a precious added value. On the other hand, in the digital age, where information and the manipulation of opinions prevails, the referendum appears increasingly as a weapon of shooting against democracy rather than as a true and clear instrument of direct participation.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u7	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u8	And here I cannot but mention the wise way in which the reference question contained in the draft resolution is put and which is likely to induce the answer. I also believe that this referendum initiative would have a different meaning if it had taken place earlier, and not only now, during the work of the specialty, at the risk of a manifestly dilating record. It should also be noted that the bills were generally approved and that there was no cataclysm or seizure, which shows that the population lived well with the result obtained in Parliament. In addition, in such a matter, I consider it a very serious mistake to de-responsibility of the Assembly of the Republic. The decision must be taken and taken by Parliament and legislation must be drawn up with the weight of assuming responsibility and inherent accountability for Portuguese people, because we will all be very attentive to this matter and we want and need the supervision of the whole society in the way the laws adopted in this House of Democracy will be implemented. Today, the referendum initiative is discussed, but I leave a word for the question of controversial material and of appreciation for all those who have been actively engaged in this cause. I am convinced that everyone is genuinely imbued with the best spirit of citizenship and believers who defend the best solution. But life is not black and white, it is not 'yes' or 'no'; it consists of many nuances, and that is what enriches it and makes up the balance of society. The ideal is that legislation is exemplary and that never, but never, no one needs to resort to it. [[PSD, PS and BE applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u9	For an intervention, even during the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Paulo Moniz has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : You have entered this House with a public petition with 95 287 subscribers asking that the decriminalization of euthanasia in Portugal be decided by a referendum. It was in this Assembly of the Republic which had generally been approved by 128 votes to 85 with 9 abstentions, among other diplomas of other parties on the same subject, the diploma of the Socialist Party. This was not part of the electoral programme, which the Portuguese gave a relative majority. Despite the long debate on this which is a matter of individual conscience in Portuguese society, it had never before been approved in this House the question of the right to die in an assisted manner. On the contrary, it has not yet been two years since an initiative with the same content has been dropped in this Parliament. All of us are elected by the Portuguese people and all of us here represent the Portuguese who, through their vote, gave us the legitimacy and responsibility to give them voice. They trust that we are zealous for their interests and that we are constantly debating ourselves to legislate what can best serve the various sectors and pillars of Portuguese society. However, and not in wounding the unquestionable legitimacy of representative democracy, present in this one that is the House of Democracy, when citizens do not agree with what we do, they manifest themselves and show us, also with all legitimacy, that the debate should emerge from these four walls through participatory and popular democracy. There were 95 287 people who signed the petition telling us that the Portuguese people also want to debate and participate directly in this discussion. Very bad goes a democracy where a matter of this importance and nature is closed within the Assembly of the Republic. Society always gives signs and this, in particular, cannot and should not be ignored. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u11	There is a great difference between democracy and freedom. Freedom must not only be measured by the possibility of voting, but must be measured above all by the scope of what is not voted on and, in this case, by the possibility of not giving the Portuguese a chance to speak. I voted on this issue as a Member. I had this right, the right to pronounce myself, the right to, in full freedom of conscience, be able to express myself. What I am defending now is that, as I have had, all Portuguese have the same exact opportunity to express their will, in which is the most important issue of all matters. Is there any fear that this will happen? of the result? If not, then what is the question? Today, more than ever, even because of the exceptional circumstances we live in the country, we must not ignore what Portuguese society means to us. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, agreeing with a referendum is not a matter of delaying decisions or of taking the legitimacy that this Parliament has indisputably. We must not fear democracy in the form of popular participation! If the 95 000 people who signed this petition joined in protest in front of the Assembly of the Republic, we would be facing a very difficult demonstration to ignore. Given the current circumstances, it is thus certain, through your data, of your name and your signature, that these people can express their will. And your will, like mine, and I hope that that of many Members in this House, is that this matter is referred to. What leads us all to praise popular participation in other petitions, to have them approve and to think that this, in particular, is a way of conditioning this Parliament? I am calling for a referendum and for the Portuguese to speak, and I argue that, in this sensitive area, we should be guided by the opportunity to speak out to all those who want to come into this debate: the country and the Portuguese! However, I cannot but make an appeal: that if the referendum is approved, as I hope, the question is made clearly and objectively and not subject to interpretation. For an answer « yes» or « no », a question of « yes » or « no » should be asked. Let's have a referendum! Let the Portuguese hear it! May this will be respected by whom you have chosen us and who is now asking us for the word! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u12	For an intervention by the PS Parliamentary Group, Mrs Isabel Alves Moreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u13	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by greeting the petitioners. The petitioners are of enormous frankness. In the past legislature, when we discussed the decriminalization of euthanasia, not only did they not propose a referendum, as they refused. They are thus presented with the legitimacy of a tactic to paralyze Parliament. They're in your right. The petitioners write that it is up to the State to guarantee and defend human life and integrity under any circumstances, particularly in situations of greater vulnerability, fragility, disease and human suffering. We agree at all with the statement. That is why we have made a bill in which only the refusal of a duty to live in extreme circumstances is concerned, so the current protection of each person's life against his own will is, yes, violence in a rule of law of the 21st century, tolerant, plural, which respects and protects those who want to live as nature dictates it until the last of their days, but who respects those who choose the day of their death with the assistance of others, in circumstances defined by the constitutional framework. [[Congrats from PS and BE Members.]] That is why, contrary to what they say, our choice of criminal policy does not represent a violent civilizational court, but rather the adequacy of criminal norms to a proper interpretation of today's rule of law, which denies the state imposition, for more criminal purposes, of a supposedly dominant moral conception. With due respect, in the text of the popular referendum initiative it is necessary to cancel, forget, pretend that there is not the most important dimension of decriminalization of death on request. This dimension is called choice.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u14	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u15	There are those who do not believe in individual autonomy and do so by statulating the lives of so many people who pass by us. It happens that every person who asks us to be able to choose the moment of his death in case of incurable illness, for example, without the inhumanity of criminal law under his conscience, wants to make a choice. And that is what it is about, of the certainty that the choice is always, but always, of the sick, indelegable, someone we look with great respect, that we have to be free and autonomous. [[Congrats from PS Members.]] Yes, there are many requirements for the choice to be exercised by requirements of respect for the constitutional principles in the presence, but the choice to put an end to an intransmissible world of pain is personal, it is autonomous, and that is why we will not fail to defend the voice of those who choose against the voice of those who say "you don't exist". The representative democracy that is here raised on the sacrifice and death of so many has been suffering dangerous attacks. The House of the People, Parliament, the plural voice of all and all, this Chamber, where the citizens are represented, is called 'the corridor', as if in a closed world it was a world of back to the people and not precisely the place of the people.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u16	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u17	It is against this attack that we rise, because in times of populist separation between the « us» and the « them» we reaffirm the Republic, we erect the Constitution, we greet the people present here in every Member and Member of Parliament and we know of the special responsibility we have not to decline the duty to legislate.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u18	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u19	The duty to legislate on a complex matter, which is not simple, which is not 'yes' or 'no', which is not black and white, which calls us to operate serene weightings between fundamental rights. This is our duty, we have been elected and elected to do so, the issue is fundamental rights and criminal policy and fundamental rights, we should know, are counter-majority. To say 'no' as Members and Members is like a waiver of the mandate. For our part, here we are, in the House of the People, in the huge "covenant" of the people, to fulfill our duty — our duty! Our duty on a law that has been debated for years and years. There were few debates so dense, so intense, so open to civil society, in the parties and here, in such a House of People. If there is a matter which falls within the competence of the Assembly of the Republic is the matter of fundamental rights, such matters are imposed against any majority, so the argument that the decriminalisation of euthanasia in special situations is too sensitive to be decided by Parliament is an anti-democratic and apolitical argument. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]] There have already been times when they wanted to shoot to refer such sensitive questions, at the time, as love among people of different ethnic backgrounds. Because most of them denied that love. What about the debate? Would it be clean? See the question that petitioners suggest. It is the question of who wants to enjoy that place where rational discussion loses ground, giving in to the oratory of horror, precisely what can be avoided in the House of Democracy. Let me finish this way: we all received the letter from Louis Marques, a paraplegic 55 years ago, who drove more than 2000 km to put an end to life, through suicide assisted in Switzerland. He realized what was denied to him in Portugal, the desire for self-determination. In the letter, he asked us to detonate euthanasia so that it could die with dignity in Portugal. We didn't make it in time. He made his choice in Switzerland. He left a personal testimony of insane madness that was to fight against a law that he saw in his desire for self-determination a crime. He chose to die in Switzerland, surrounded by love, respecting, in his own words, all and all who do not want to have that choice. The choice of Louis, the choices of the people we know and do not disclose, the inalienable choice about my death in very personal circumstances can depend on a popular consultation? On behalf of whom he has chosen, on behalf of whom he wants to choose, we say no, we do not refer to you. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u20	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u21	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This liberal minute on the referendum on euthanasia is a difficult liberal minute. It is difficult, because the discussion on this subject compels us to face death, but calls on us, at the same time, to protect the dignity of life. It challenges us to promote civic participation, but at the same time reminds us that conscience does not lead to votes. Our position and mandate on euthanasia is clear and well known. The Liberal Initiative included this in its political programme. The Liberal Initiative presented its own project of decriminalization of assisted drug death. The Liberal Initiative actively participates in the final drafting work of the law, insisting, for example, on effective access to palliative care. It is also clear our position on the advantages of citizens' civic participation in the public sector. We want more people involved in their decisions. We want more discussion on what it is and it is not questionable. We want more scrutiny and we want more transparency in decisions. And above all, the Liberal Initiative wants this legislative process to be solid, without gaps and without weaknesses. It produces sound and weighted legislation. Ignoring the will of almost 100 000 people to express their opinion would create this very: a gap and weakness in the legislation we wish to see adopted.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u22	Mr President, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u23	I shall conclude, Mr President. It is when various rights and principles collide that the return to the essence of politics is required: choice, however difficult it may be. The choice of the Liberal Initiative is to vote in favour of the referendum.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u24	Mr Bebiana Cunha, from the Parliamentary Group of the PAN, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u25	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, we greet the petitioners and, in respect of freedom of expression, we respond with all honesty. During the discussion of the draft laws on decriminalization of euthanasia, the NAP clearly expressed its position on the conduct of a referendum on this subject. This request for a referendum seems to us that it is clearly being used as the last reduction of anyone who wants, at all costs, to block a matter of law as fundamental and basic as the extension of people's autonomy and self-determination. The request for a referendum that we have discussed here is for citizens and citizens, registered voters, to be called upon to rule on the following question: "Do you agree that killing another person at your request or help her commit suicide should continue to be punishable by criminal law under any circumstances? Do not keep on seeking. ” Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the way this question is put is, from the outset, very questionable, it is imbued and intentionally induces moral judgment and has a very clear political purpose and which we are very concerned about: it seeks to withdraw from the discussion what is indeed essential.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u26	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u27	And do so only in order to avoid the fundamental debate that it is necessary to do without fear, with the depth, with the seriousness and the rigour that this matter requires us and, above all, without paying attention to the rights of those who are at the end of their lives. This project wants to divert attention to another focus, different from the one that should be the discussion, however difficult it is the drug-assisted death. This proposal for a referendum has as its sole real purpose the postponement of the response that a democratic State has to give to those who live in a continuous suffering, in slow and suffering agony, in a state of life aggravated by dependence and physical degradation, on which only one must decide in the first instance. This is clearly a subject that is not resolved by a referendum, which requires multiple glances and that, by crossing into different domains of personal, professional, cultural and ideological thought, imposes the clarification and debate, the auscultation of all sectors of society, the presentation, analysis, the understanding of different perspectives, and that is the path that has been made. With regard to the debate in this House, which started in May 2018, a lot has already been done and this House has spoken in due course. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, projects were approved in general, a working group was set up to hear a number of entities and personalities. Assisted drug death is not a murder and is not an unconscious request, removed from deep reflection and choice. Therefore, in our perspective, the question raised in this project is first and foremost unaware of the complexity of this matter. As we have already mentioned, it is more permeated by a moral judgment than by human rights. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this question ends up being disrespectful of all citizens and family members who are currently and always debating themselves for the free exercise of their right of choice. It is disrespectful of citizens and citizens who had to resort to drug-assisted death outside the country and had to have an economic capacity to do so. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we regret that such important issues are being raised, which require a high level of sensitivity, as they are being put here. With the legal framework still in force, we do not respond to human dignity, nor do we acknowledge the possibility that, in exceptional situations, a person may decide on the most decisive and intimate issues of his life, the decision on the conditions of his own death. And that is the fundamental question. What, in fact, should be in our responsibilities as elected and elected to this sovereignty body? Our individual moral judgments or the right of every citizen and citizen of our country? That is why this issue should not be referenced. Of course, by the way it is written, but also because it is not justifiable to conduct a referendum to decide on a matter that does not matter to the will, whether favorable or unfavorable, of others on an inalienable individual right. This is the central issue: this decision can only be for people who unfortunately find themselves in this situation, not for any of us here, nor for those who have launched this initiative that we have discussed here. The NAP will continue to be with all patients, all family members and all professionals who hope that assisted drug deaths will be possible in Portugal. For this reason, we have incorporated into our electoral programme this same assumption, to reaffirm the right to a dignified, technically supported, consciously decided end of life in situations clinically proven as unable to return any relief to the suffering of the person concerned, never exceeding those that are the missiles of health professionals, who will obviously have to be respected in their personal and professional positions. [[Congratulations from BE and PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u28	Mr José Manuel Pureza, from the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u29	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the debate of this popular referendum initiative, whose promoters here present, has two ways to be done: one, is to take this initiative for its facial value; another, is to discuss the effective purposes of its promoters.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u30	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u31	Let's start here. Dr. Isilda Pegado, one of the most prominent faces of all the promoters of this popular referendum initiative, wrote in the Voice of Truth seminar on 9 February: "Life does not refer to. But a law that acts against life cannot be passed. And only the people's strength can break such a law. In order to break the law, a popular referendum initiative has been prepared in which the people ask the Assembly of the Republic to reject such projects and continue to protect human life". All clear, then. The proponents of the referendum initiative are, in principle, against the referendum they propose. We repelled him. But in a flood of sincerity, they say that the referendum is a resource, a dossier, something to which they resort solely with the aim of blocking the way to Parliament and blocking a law which desecrates assisted death. They are therefore commended for their frankness: without lukewarmness, they say that it is not respect for the people who move them, but a purely instrumental purpose, that they oppose a political majority which represents here, in Parliament, the majority of the country, who approve the decriminalization of death assisted under the conditions and in the cases provided for in the law. Political tactic against the responsibility to legislate—that is all that is brought to us here today. Furthermore, as has already been said, the question posed by the promoters of this hypothetical referendum is capcious and unserious, a skilled way of one way of finding the desired answer. Again, no serious debate, only political skill. On the real purposes of this concrete initiative, we are therefore talking. But there is a second debate to be held about it: that of the validity of the referendum for decisions on fundamental rights. The Left Block wants to be clear on this: the referendum is a democratic instrument, but to refer to the rights of all is to put those rights into the hands of some, and that is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u32	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u33	There are questions I would like to ask, with loyalty, today, to the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen who, convincingly and seriously, are in favour of this proposal for a referendum. Would you agree with a referendum on your freedom of expression? Would you support a referendum on your right to profess a religion or not to profess any religion? Would they submit to the referendum your right to marry whom they want to have communion of life? I am sure that they would not, reasonably, do so, because your freedom, our freedom, does not refer to it.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u34	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u35	Because your life, our life, does not refer. Because yours and our decisions on freedom and on our lives do not refer. [[Congratulations from BE and PS Members.]] Had the right of women to vote had been referred to when the suffragists were charged with hysteria, had the right of the slaves to be free men were referred to by the slavers, had the right to strike was referred to when the bosses were aggressively attacking the struggles for bread and dignity and these invaluable achievements, of equal humanity and the equal dignity of all people, they would have been confiscated by those who did not want to open their hand to their power. The same is true here today. Should the right of a doctor to help, without being sentenced to imprisonment, who, with an irreversible and fatal illness and in a condition of dilacent suffering, asks you to anticipate his death being referred to? For the Left Block must not, and for two fundamental reasons. First of all, because this is not a question of 'yes' or 'no'. Only for some hyperliberal leviance or dogmatic prohibitionists is the decriminalization of assisted death reduced to a simplistic 'yes' or 'no'. For the vast majority of people, the superficiality of this absolutism can only be rejected. And it is precisely to regulate what is complex and not what is simple that the people have assigned to us, their representatives, the responsibility to legislate, weighing all values and all interests, hearing all the best of the knowledge that society has about each subject and giving us wisdom and wisdom with determination to defend the rights of all.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u36	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u37	The second reason for rejection of a concrete referendum is therefore that of the full assumption of Parliament's responsibility in all circumstances and, above all, when it appears to be of greater technical difficulty, of greater legal difficulty and of greater ethical difficulty. Only a law of Parliament can strictly and prudently regulate, with determination and wisdom, a situation as delicate as that of assisted death, specifying precisely what it can and cannot be decriminalized, fixing with rigour all the rights and duties of the different people involved, establishing with accuracy all the mechanisms of control of a scrupulous application of the law, i.e. strictly legislating within the margin of articulation between the different principles with acceptance of the Constitution which are called for for complex situations like this. There is, on the side of many supporters of this referendum, an old rhetoric of attack on Parliament.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u38	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u39	It is the language of the secretism of the cabinets, it is the tale of the fearsome Members of the people. We know the argument, we know where it comes from and who it wants to serve. There are even those who look forward to making the anti-parliamentaryism of the enlightened their argument. in a call for a referendum on the decriminalization of euthanasia, unlike this popular referendum initiative, but which runs parallel to this popular initiative, here, in the Assembly of the Republic, petitioners invoke, from the height of their chairs, that— and I quote— "this Parliament is composed mostly of vulgar creatures, without intellectual size or scientific competence, and is not suitable for deciding on a topic of this cultural and civilizational dimension". It is appropriate to ask the honourable Members. and Members of Parliament who support the referendum if they see themselves in this portrait and if they are available to support those who think this about you. The response to this rhetorical fraud by Parliament is the one that is being given by this House, with a legislative process that was certainly the most involved and legally stopped that there is memory in our parliamentary democracy. To accompany more than four years of intense debate, throughout the country, from the coast to the interior, involving people of all ages and of all social conditions, meticulous pronouncements with unusual media dissemination of scientific entities and professional orders, everything to categorically deny the swindling of that "people have not been heard", the parliamentary work throughout this process has heard in detail, in many cases more than once, professional orders, the world of law, medicine and bioethics and all associations, all civic movements and all individual personalities who have indicated interest in speaking. It had to be like this. And it challenges every one of you. Members and each of the honourable Members who are in favour of the referendum to show that Parliament has not been at all demanding with itself in the legislative process of decriminalization of assisted death. More: I challenge each one of you. Members and each of the Members of Parliament who legitimately defend the referendum to prove that the popular consultation will ensure the serenity, rigour and demand in addressing this problem which Parliament has imposed on itself from the first hour and continues to impose until the final vote of a law. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u40	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, John Semedo wrote: « A referendum on individual rights is to turn democracy from legs to wings, to turn democracy against itself». This one, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the challenge we must face today and here with clarity and courage. On behalf of a democracy which takes itself seriously, on behalf of Parliament's responsibility, the Left Block will vote against this proposal and commit itself, as it has done since the first hour, in which we adopt a law as prudent as determined, in respect for the free decision of each one on his end of life. That is our commitment. [[Congratulations from BE and PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u41	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Greens.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u42	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At the initiative of a significant group of citizens, today we are discussing a proposal for a referendum on the decriminalization of drug-assisted deaths. As we have already stated, the Greens consider that this House has all the conditions, both from the point of view of the constitutional framework and its legitimacy, to take over a legislative process as complex and as sensitive as it is from the decriminalization of the drug-assisted death. On the other hand, we believe that there are subjects that are not referenceable, that should not be the subject of referendum, from the outset issues involving fundamental rights. We are talking exactly about fundamental rights: the right to the dignity of the human person, which, in fact, lays down our entire legal-constitutional building, the dignity of every human being in particular and of all as a result, which implies respect for the autonomy of individual will in a social context. And we are talking about the right to life, which, strictly speaking, does not restrict itself only to the right to life, but also includes the right to decide how and when you want to end it, if you decide to shorten life, since there is no duty or obligation to live. Therefore, this matter, in our view, should not be referred to. It was also on the basis of these assumptions that the Greens presented a legislative initiative so that, in certain circumstances and in very specific situations and surrounded by all cautions, the death of assisted medicine could be decriminalised. It is also recalled that the Greens project, like the others, of other parliamentary seats, has already been approved in general, and now is going through the legislative process in the field of expertise. Moreover, we are attacked by serious doubts and reservations about the real motivation of the promoters of this popular initiative. What we believe is that what is intended is not so much the referendum itself, but rather the inability of the legislative process that is under way. In fact, it is enough to pay attention to the time when this initiative is being presented, because it arises when the legislative process is already in progress. It is not by chance that the moment of its dynamization and presentation arises exactly when it became perceptible that there were conditions in this House for the legislative process to move forward successfully. And it does not cease to be curious that, before, even when, in the previous Parliament, the matter was discussed, there was no promotion of any referendum. However, these data allow us to assume with all the legitimacy that the referendum now proposed does not intend to measure the Portuguese will on assisted drug death, the real objective of this referendum is only to disturb or even prevent the progress of the legislative process that is running in this House. Nor does the lack of discussion serve as an argument, since few legislative processes have had such an intense debate, both in the previous Parliament and now. The same is true of the lack of participation because this process must have been of the most participants in this House. It is also sufficient to address the huge number of people and entities in the most diverse areas and sectors that have been heard in the respective working group within this process. These were very useful hearings, meetings and hearings, which enriched the debate, providing Members with more important elements and, in many cases, drawing attention to aspects that will necessarily have to be considered to have a balanced law, capable of ensuring the essentials and ensuring what has to be guaranteed. Nor does it even argue that the Portuguese do not know the positions of the various parties on the subject. In fact, the matter is not new and the Portuguese know well the positions of the various parties, it is sufficient to heed the positions they took in the legislative process of the previous Parliament, where the positions of the parties were more than clarified. In summary, in our view, the Assembly of the Republic has all the conditions to legislate in order to ensure and to respect, with due caution and guarantees, and only in certain situations, very concrete and very well defined, as the Greens in their proposal do, in fact, the free and conscious decision of a person who, in suffering, faces a serious disease without cure and in irremediable situation, and knowing that this will be for the rest of his life, freely, express and consciously decides to anticipate the end of his life and the end of his suffering. In our view, in these cases, the State cannot pretend that it does not listen. No, the State must not only listen, but also respect its decision. Therefore, with all due respect for the petitioners, The Greens vote against a referendum on the decriminalization of drug-assisted death. [[Congratulations from BE and PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u43	Mr Telmo Correia, from the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u44	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to stress that what we are discussing today is a popular referendum initiative which, in a short period of weeks, has received the support of almost 100 000 of our citizens. This should be a reason for respect for these citizens as soon as they begin, and not exactly, as we have heard here, for scandal or even for offense against those who have joined us to bring this proposal here. Secondly, I would like to tell you, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, that the debate on this matter today, at this moment, you already say something about how this Parliament is discussing the matter. We discuss this issue today, in the middle of the budget discussion, in the middle of the folklore of the budgetary negotiations,... [[Protests from BE MP Jorge Costa.]] ... when everything would indicate that we should wait and discuss it later, closer to the substance decision on this matter. Make it clear, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what is at stake here today is not the basic issue. On the matter of substance, our position is very clear and, which is also clear, is a position in total freedom. We do not have any voting discipline, which we have five Members who are against euthanasia and who are in favour of the referendum. We have no discipline of any kind or need to have. What is at stake here, I repeat, is not the bottom line. On the fundamental issue, we are, in principle, against euthanasia. And we are against euthanasia, because it is a mistake, because it is dangerous in the results and because there is an alternative, which is palliative care. The alternative is always to end suffering and it can never be to end the person who suffers. This is our position on the matter of substance, and there will be no doubt about that. What we have decided today, basically, is who decides. We're here to decide who decides. We have decided that we and our colleagues are not here, i.e. the composition of this Chamber as a whole, or we give the floor to the people so that it will be decided? This is what we are deciding here today and, in that decision, do not come with lessons of democracy or supposedly anti-parliamentaryism for those who, like me, live this Parliament with emotion and will always defend it, in all circumstances and at all times.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u45	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u46	Don't come with these lessons, because it's not worth it! Representative democracy is legitimate! Parliament has its legitimacy! Direct democracy can also be an instrument, if this House so wishes, if this House decides. That's what's at stake! That's what's at stake! They don't raise ghosts about democracy, because it's not worth it! In other words, or this House has the humility to realize that it may be committing a precipitation or an error and asks the people if it agrees, or this House, as we have seen today, is self-sufficient, it is full of itself, it has absolute certainty about what it will decide and, more, as we hear here, it even finds, in some cases, that this issue is such a elaborate way, in such a complex way that only great understandings, such as those fattening by these benches, can solve it and that the common citizen, who has life, who has family and who wants to protect his life and his family, is not enlightened enough to understand it. It is a choice between arrogance and humility! [[Protests by PEV MP José Luís Ferreira.]] That is the choice between arrogance and humility! And there are many reasons why they recommend humility in this matter. First: this question was not in the programmes of the major parties, of those who were the most voted, and was not discussed during the election campaign. Is that true or is it a lie? It's true! [[Protests by members of BE Jorge Costa and José Manuel Pureza.]] Have a little tolerance too, to listen to the others. Secondly, we are told that the Assembly is doing an exemplary process, that the Assembly has heard everything it has to hear, that the Assembly has made the hearings it has to do. It's true! It just matters if you say the rest of the truth, too. Let us say that we have heard, in particular, health professionals, those who deal with this situation. And what did the Medical Order say here? That's against it! What came here to say the Order of the Nurses? That's against it! What did the National Council of Ethics for Life Sciences say here? That's against it! [[Protests of PS and BE Members.]] All the most relevant entities that have been heard said they are against! That should invite the gentlemen. Members with some humility, having the humility to think that if they are all against, perhaps they have some reason, perhaps it is worth discussing more, perhaps it is worth listening to the people, perhaps it is worth not being afraid to hear the people. The constitutionalists, the constitutional law specialists — 15 illustrious teachers, Mr. Members, they will not all be, but 15 illustrious teachers— said that the decision that the House is preparing to take is unconstitutional. We would therefore benefit from a broad discussion to realize that what is in issue with euthanasia, contrary to what has been said here, is not the fight against therapeutic obstination or the simple shutdown of the machine, what is involved and what this House is preparing to approve is the administration of a lethal injection or another means of causing death not only in relation to terminal patients and suffering, but in relation to people who may have an injury or disease that today may seem fatal, but that tomorrow science may reverse. That is why we should consider whether it is not worth listening to the people. The question is a fundamental issue, it is a civilizational issue, it is a model question of society, it is a question that concerns the whole community, but also everyone and each of the Portuguese, individually considered, and that is why it makes sense. [[Protests by PS MP Maria Antonio de Almeida Santos and PEV MP José Luís Ferreira.]] As for the argument that we cannot refer to this kind of matter... Ladies and gentlemen, have there been no referendums on other matters? Oh, my God! Didn't you refer to abortion twice? Oh, my God! Didn't many gentlemen ask for the second referendum on abortion when they didn't like the result of the first one? Oh, my God! Is it just now that you can't refer to it? Did you find that out now? Does it make any sense? Then I tell you one thing: it is particularly shocking to me that this decision is made in the circumstances that we live in a pandemic in a health crisis...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u47	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u48	I'm really finishing up, Mr. President. As I said, it is particularly shocking for this decision to be taken in the circumstances in which we live, in the middle of the pandemic, in a health crisis. When you see the exposure of the most fragile and the elderly, what Parliament has to offer is euthanasia, it is death on demand. It's a death drive that's a mistake. We should respect the citizens who want to speak to the people and we should have the humility of not being afraid to hear the people. Are they afraid to hear the people?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u49	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u50	I'm really going to finish, Mr. President. Mr. José Manuel Pureza, if, one day, this House or another wanted to approve a law that would irreversibly challenge our freedoms and freedom of expression, I would not be afraid to give the word to the people,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u51	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u52	... because the people would be on the side of freedom, as the people will also be on the side of life in this case. I have no doubt about it! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u53	Mr António Filipe spoke for an intervention by the CFP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u54	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP Parliamentary Group does not follow the citizens' initiative to hold a referendum on euthanasia. The position of the CFP on the matter of substance is well known. The CFP voted against the draft laws — which are under consideration, in the field of expertise — which aim to legalise euthanasia and will maintain this position in the overall final vote of the text to be approved. It does not, as it is obvious, for any reason of the religious forum, with all respect for all religious convictions and for all people who, on the basis of these convictions, also pronounce themselves against the legalization of euthanasia. There is also no judgment of negative value on the part of the PCP regarding who, based on their individual reflection or experience, defends position contrary to ours. We said, from the first hour that the debate was launched in this House, that we would never face such a complex issue as this one on the basis of Manichaeist positions and we based our position on a deep reflection on the social consequences that may arise from the legislative option in question. If the question of euthanasia is dealt with strictly on an individual level, there is no need to respect the position of those who claim to have the right to put an end to a limited situation. None of us fear dying, because we all know that we will die one day, but we all fear the suffering that can precede death. It is human and understandable that it is. But what is discussed in this House is not the individual option of each one on the end of his life, but the attitude of the state and society towards the final phase of the life of his citizens. An organized society is not a mere sum of individual autonomy and the legislator should not take an option on the life and death of people without taking into account the circumstances and social consequences of that option. What concerns us, in this legislative process, are the social consequences that can result from it, especially in the most fragile social strata, in the elderly, in the poorest, in those who have the most difficulties in access to health care. That being said, why would the CFP refuse to hold a referendum that we could even admit to obstructing this legislative process? Firstly, it rejects it because it is clear that the matter affects fundamental rights, whatever the point of view it is addressed. Whether by the angle of the limits of the right to life, or by the angle of the limits to individual autonomy, it is fundamental rights that we are talking about. For the CFP, legislative options on fundamental rights should not be subject to contingencies, manichaeism and simplification that always run a referendum consultation.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u55	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u56	This has always been the position of the CFP in relation to the referendum, when issues of fundamental rights or criminal policy are involved, and no one can point to any inconsistencies or variation in positions, depending on whether or not the referendum might be interested for tactical reasons. Secondly, but not least, I refuse it because I believe that this House has all the legitimacy to decide, legitimacy that must be respected. The question is difficult — it certainly is! — but Members were not elected to decide only on easy issues, making voters respond to difficult questions. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u57	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u58	The exercise of the parliamentary mandate on behalf of the people is an exercise of responsibility, which should not be removed at a time when difficult decisions have to be made. Sometimes it is said that the issue is conscientious, but what is decided here is not the individual's choice of conscience about what each one will do or will no longer listen to a law be passed. What is under consideration is a legislative option on a state decision process, which will certainly have social implications and implications that are projected at individual level, but which is neither an option nor a judgment on individual attitudes. When, in 1998, an agreement negotiated between the PS and the PSD was adopted in this House, the holding of a referendum on a question which, being completely different from that, also involved fundamental rights - I refer to the voluntary interruption of pregnancy - the CFP voted against the realization of that referendum, considering that the Assembly of the Republic had not only legitimacy as the duty to decide on this issue, which was of fundamental rights. More: the CFP has always defended the legitimacy of this House to legislate, even against all those who found that, having had a referendum, the Assembly could only decide after a new referendum, which happened only after nine years of humiliating trials of women who interrupted pregnancy. [[PCP, PS and PEV applause.]] Some may say that it would be very easy for the CFP, because it is against the approval of the law, to refer the decision to the popular vote and to accuse those who refuse to fear the verdict of the people. But the PCP refuses, in coherence, such facilities. The CFP may disagree with the decisions taken by a majority in this House and may even fight them, but it does not question the legitimacy of this House to make decisions on behalf of the people it represents. For these reasons, we will vote against the referendum initiative. [[PCP, PS, BE and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u59	Mr Pedro Bacelar de Vasconcelos, of the PS Parliamentary Group, now has the floor to speak for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u60	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I need to make a previous statement of interest, because I have publicly argued, since 1996, that which I am no longer in favour of today in the projects presented in this House, we have referred to as 'assisted drug deaths' and because I have to confess that the proposal from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs — which I do not already belong to and which I cannot represent here — involves at least a strange question, especially if we consider that this is the question which we propose to address to people, to the people.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u61	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u62	It is an unacceptable question, which deserves, more than an ideological political debate, more than a serious debate, in this House, an extensive literary analysis, which is not our function to do nor do we have time to carry out. However, it is essential to take into account what is proposed as the question which must be asked to the Portuguese people and which, contrary to what has already been said, expresses an extraordinary contempt for this people, who must defend us. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u63	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u64	We know how to defend ourselves very well. This absent people, present here because of our mediation, do not deserve to be asked questions of this content. Law: "Do you agree that killing someone else at your request or help you kill yourself must continue to be punished by criminal law under any circumstances? » It's an insult! [[P.S., BE, and PS deputy Quintela.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u65	It's a shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u66	In fact, the content and form of writing this question have already been masked enough to take you more time on this matter. I wanted to draw attention to the following: this question is not about the desire for death. The desire for death is a human thing, exclusively human. The desire for death is the problem of those for whom we are discussing, since the last legislature, and in this legislature too, with various projects, various proposals for response to the dramatic issue, for the indisputable sacrifice of those who, without hope, without alternative, without any expectation of any therapy that can charge or alleviate the suffering in which they live, wants, within their hearts, death and for those who, within the framework of the indispensable medical assistance, proves to be so and evaluates to what extent an exception for these extreme cases will not be a civic duty of those who represent the people in this House. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]] This is the bottom line of this question. This question has nothing to do with the situation of those for whom we seek a decent, humanly worthy answer. What's that got to do with? It's not about this! Religions were built around this desire for death and also around the attempt to make it desirable — all of them! Is it a deep, anthropological, scientific, philosophical, metaphysical, theological question, and do you want to solve this with such a question? Don't! What they want is very clear: to attack the act of killing and its author. It is to put the point not in the victim, let us say so, but in the one who, out of compassion, out of pity, out of human feelings, debate, in his own conscience, with what he must do, whose freedom in no way is limited by this House, in none of the projects under discussion in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, in the field of specialty. It is indifference to the suffering of others and the will to just point the finger, to take as a target, I repeat, who wants to « kill someone else». To reduce the question to these terms, to add, in the end, what is exactly the reason for being this House and what we are doing, 'in any circumstances', is an extreme demagogy and manifests a huge contempt by the people who expressly, according to the petitioners, signed this petition. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u67	With no further inscriptions, we will enter the second point of our agenda, of which is the debate of the Annual Report of the Ombudsman on 2019. IL Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u68	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : « The action of the borrower State, the insurance State and the tax State cannot continue to consume almost two thirds of the whole activity of the Ombudsman » — these are the words of the Ombudsman, which can be read in the introduction of the report we are discussing today. The issue of taxation, in particular, dominates. There are more complaints about tax issues than about justice or education. There are more than twice as many complaints about tax issues than about housing, urbanism, environment and natural resources, together. These overwhelming numbers are a sign of the desperation of the citizens in the face of the prepotency of the state in general and of the tax machine in particular, this relentless and increasingly complex machine. in a recent hearing, Provedora said she wanted Portugal to be a country where people complained about the public administration of collective goods and not about their own material goods. And he concluded by saying that, and I quote, «if these complaints are the majority complaints, it is because the reality of the country I have before me, which comes to me, is the reality of a country at the threshold of survival». I have heard some say that the Liberal Initiative speaks too much of these examples of State malfunction. I have to say to them the following: as long as the reality is the fiscal oppression that this report describes, as long as the Portuguese live the despair of the busy bureaucracy, as long as the PS government does not realize the vital importance of freeing the Portuguese daily from these grills, we will continue to talk about these matters and to think that we are not talking too much, but rather less about what is the excessive power of the State over the citizens.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u69	Mr Inês de Sousa Real, from the PAN Parliamentary Group, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u70	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The report we are discussing today is a kind of state of the nation in the field of fundamental rights and should be a compass for our future action, particularly in the framework of the State budget for 2021. There are, however, some issues, particularly in three areas, which we would like to highlight from this report. From this point of view, in environmental matters, this report alerts us to the lack of rigour in the assessment of the environmental impact and the fact that public entities are merely carrying out formal control of economic activities, without often ensuring that citizens' rights of participation are respected. According to the Ombudsman, to ensure these rights is to weigh the concerns of citizens, to respond to their objections, to consider their suggestions. Without these components, we will no longer have more than mere formal records which do not comply with the Constitution and the law, something for which the NAP has repeatedly alerted over the years and which has led to constant abuses of environmental legislation. Another issue has to do with the fact that this report shows us that in the 21st century, the access of citizens with reduced mobility to public transport continues to be a mirage to thousands of them, even referring to the paradigmatic case of the Alcântara-Mar train station. This shows that if in the 2020 budget, thanks to the NAP, works to improve accessibility in the metropolitan of Lisbon, these works must continue to be planned in this Budget for 2021 and be extended, for example, to train stations or, above all, access to hospital units or other health care. On the other hand, this report does not forget the rights of animals, which are fundamental rights, giving us important lights on the way ahead, which meet concerns of the NAP already demonstrated here. An example of this is the issue of overcrowding of municipal canes and the existence of wandering animals on public roads. Contrary to what many like to say, it is not the law of not slaughter. The blame, tells us the Ombudsman, is for insufficient resources on the part of the municipalities and for the inadequacy of the official collection centres themselves. DGAV ( Directorate-General for Food and Veterinary) itself was alerted by Mrs. Supplier to the need to build more official collection centres, improve existing ones and raise awareness campaigns for responsible adoption. However, what have the competent bodies, such as DGAV, done so far? Tragedies such as that of Santo Tirso show us, unfortunately, that there have been no answers and that the way that must be made is that of creating state structures for safeguarding animal welfare, a path that has long been claimed by the NAP and that this Budget comes, for example, with the creation of the figure of the animal provider. But if this was a good question, the Budget continues to fail to provide the necessary answers so that the municipalities and the official collection centres can meet the needs and challenges they face. An increase of only EUR 2, EUR 3 million does not allow the necessary answer to be given. This is less than what is necessary, at 84 %, and that is why, in the specialty, we are going to be hit by an increase in this amount which is able to provide the answers that the country needs in the different subjects, including animal welfare, and thus comply with those that have long been the recommendations of the Ombudsman. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u71	For an intervention by the PS Parliamentary Group, Mrs Elza Pais has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u72	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Seventy years after the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and 30 years after the Convention on the Rights of the Child, the Ombudsman, this noble National Institute for Human Rights, presented to the Assembly of the Republic the report of its activity in 2019, as an effective instrument of communication between the State and citizens. in this pandemic year, the reality portrayed here may seem very distant, but it must take even more absolute value to call on all of us to pay great attention to it. This report is a fundamental instrument for understanding the functioning of our Public Administration and access to the various services that citizens are entitled to. hence the importance of the modernisation, simplification and administrative innovation to which the Government has given absolute centrality. The complaint content in 2019 shows the same trend over recent years as regards taxes, public employability and social security, where the highest number of expectations are recorded. There is a sharp increase in complaints: 42% more in the last four years. This means, in our view, greater knowledge of this mechanism, greater learning of citizenship and use of public services to address individual rights in relation to the State. However, we cannot fail to record, despite this evolution of the complaints, the significant effort of the Provedoria with regard to the recovery of expectations, with a high rate of resolution archiving, of 57 %. It is also worth noting, as a very positive note, the decrease in complaints about children's rights and prison affairs — less than 35 % — and the centrality placed by the Province in respect of the dignity of the person in prison. The preventive monitoring of situations where there are persons deprived of liberty, such as prisons, temporary facilities and educational centres for minors, deserves a note of the need that the structural problems of these three realities continue to deserve. It is therefore very important, indeed, that this work of Provedoria as a National Mechanism for Prevention in the Protection of the Human Rights of Refugees and Immigrants, where Portugal, we have to underline, if it has been stated as an example for the international community for the good practices it has presented. This Mechanism made 45 visits in 2019, always giving priority to dialogue with the directions of the places of detention, leading not only to the creation of better and more dignified operating conditions, but also to the construction of new reception centres. Although some difficulties have been identified, which are well portrayed in the report, it is also noted, and it is important to emphasize, a huge effort to introduce improvements and to make more humane the treatment of people in these detention centres. Provedoria has also identified areas of limbo, turquoise areas, where greater information work needs to be done with people, so that their rights and access to the mechanisms available to Portugal to carry them out become clearer. We are talking about areas such as foreign rights and social housing. The report also mentions growing concerns about cybersecurity and cyberdemocracy, realities that, in this pandemic context, require greater supervision by public services in guaranteeing fundamental rights. I also leave a very positive note for the three telephone lines, with a stabilization of requests for help in the children's line, but with a significant increase in the line for people with disabilities and the elderly, who should be given increased attention at the moment. I also stress that Provedoria has participated in many international projects against violence and discrimination against LGBTI people ( lesbians, gays, bisexuals, trans and intersex), about sexual identity and gender violence, and also about the human rights of migrants and refugees and the protection of unaccompanied migrant children. A note worthy of note concerns the always very difficult records of complaints of harassment at work, for which there is little effectiveness. Therefore, this is a situation that deserves some review and attention. Provedoria thus contributes to the fulfilment of the state's duty of good governance and to greater and easier access by citizens to fundamental rights, in this ever-ending process of deepening our democracy. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u73	Mr José Manuel Pureza, from the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u74	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I believe that the worst thing we can do, in the analysis of the annual reports of the Ombudsman, is to play on the attack or defense according to the position in which we place ourselves, i.e. the opposition or the majority of government. There is one thing that seems to me to be obvious, regardless of the position we occupy in political chess: from the point of view of the administration's relationship with citizens and the defence of rights, the reports of the Ombudsman have, over the years, provided a portrait always reasonably contrasting with the official speech that successive governments and successive holders of political power will make about the situation of the country. Therefore, the reports of the Ombudsman are a very important document precisely in this perspective of a critical assessment of the country's situation, especially in terms of the conduct of the Administration and the affirmation of the effectiveness of rights. We are well aware that the official speech of successive governments and successive holders of political power is always the one of a country that fulfils human rights, a friend of human rights, whose administration is based on the primacy of legality, which does not accept arbitrary practices, and that is where we go. In the meantime, reports, such as this from the Ombudsman, come to talk to us from another country. They are talking to us in a country where, of course, in the case of the report we are considering, about 36 % of the 51 000 complaints concern the social citizenship of our compatriots, where there is often too much social citizenship and where there is still, as we know, inhuman, cruel and degrading treatment, not only in the prison system but also in other contexts, such as in the centres of temporary installation near airports, where immigrant citizens, at last, on the limit, as happened tragically recently, are subject to situations such as those which led a specific citizen to death. Therefore, the first thing I would like to stress, on behalf of the Left Block, is that this report should concern us all, regardless of our party position, to the exact extent that it shows us how there is still a Administration which is often too much conducted in a logic of prepotence and of the fragility of the vast majority of citizens who relate to it, an Administration which often views citizens as a problem and not as rights-holders, which should, as such, be respected. what the Public Administration really needs in the light of this report, in particular, and of the previous, is much more than a technological shock, it is a shock of public service culture, in which people's rights are effectively respected in everyday life, not with an attitude of alienation, of sovereignty, of disarray, which so often marks the relationship of administration with citizens. Second note: this report from the Ombudsman points out a programme of action to inform the Ombudsman of segments of the population who know it less well. On behalf of the Left Block, I wanted to say that it is very important that this be done and that it be touched, of course, in communities or segments of the population often excluded from citizenship. I believe that everyone will be able to identify these same segments and that this is very important. Finally, Mr President, in closing, I leave a final note on the will of the Ombudsman to amend the institutional rigidity created in 1993 for the Ombudsman, which, in the meantime, has been extended to its competences and has created units which have joined the 'old' Ombudsman '. From this point of view, it is extremely important to note that comes in the Report of the National Prevention Mechanism, precisely in order to change the status of autonomy and therefore of human resources own, with its own capacity, of the National Prevention Mechanism. This is absolutely necessary for the very worthy work of the National Prevention Mechanism to be increasingly robust and heed the recommendations which, in a consistent sense, are being done by international bodies and which leave the Portuguese State in a critical situation in this regard. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u75	Mr Telmo Correia, from the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u76	Mr President, first of all, I would like to point out that this report should be a little more than the political-geographical position in which we place ourselves — that is true, always so — that this report should be seen as such, i.e. a report from an institution that has gained importance and authority, and I believe that the report is an expression of it. The report thus reveals a positive assessment, in my view, of the one who has been the role of Providence. Much of this positive analysis has to do with something that is ahead of the report and that, in my view, was the very important work done on the tragedy of the 2017 fires, the repairs and the compensations that followed them. Furthermore, this report is somehow in the middle, because it is after the fires, which have occupied much of the Provedoria, and is before the pandemic situation, since it does not yet contemplate this point and everything that is happening. This is a report which reveals a significant number of requests and complaints. It is a report which reveals in some cases that the public authorities, when requested, have not responded to the complaints and to the Ombudsman's own invocations. And it is a report which, as has been said, raises relevant issues, for example, from the point of view of cybersecurity, which, I think, should be a central concern for all of us, but also — something which, in my view, is a contradiction — of the reception that the country makes and the quality, or lack of it, of the centres dedicated to immigration and people who are victims of a scourge and who arrive at Portugal, which, according to the Government, have all the conditions, but according to what this report tells us, it is not so. In fact, the same can be said of the situation of prisons and even the question of support, health and nutrition in prisons, which is particularly serious and worrying. The report, however, tells us a very significant thing about a kind of country portrait by identifying the main themes and main concerns and most of the volume of complaints we have. We have three fundamental aspects: public employment, social security and late pensions, which sometimes take one or two years to be deferred — this is a very worrying situation, the report gives this expression, and must be reflected — and thirdly, taxation, the abuse of the tax machine, the weight of the tax machine on the citizens. So, without wanting, obviously, to segment this question...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u77	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u78	Mr President, I conclude by saying that the institution itself has a worthy work, that this report is relevant and, looking at what it tells us, is an important tool for us to continue our work.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u79	Mr Duarte Marques of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u80	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Much of what has already been said is very relevant for the analysis of the Ombudsman's report. It is true that this report deserves the importance of this debate for the power it has even to monitor the action of the State and the Public Administration in Portugal. unlike other countries, this report does not have great concerns about security matters or even police abuses, because, fortunately, Portugal does not have as many bad examples as other countries, but it is the Ombudsman who has the responsibility to assess, verify, defend citizens in the face of State misconduct, the inefficiency of the State and the Public Administration, a role that we too often have to play. I understand Mr. José Manuel Pureza's appeal not to favour this issue, not to take this into the field of accusations between parties, or between opposition and government, but the truth is that the report by the Ombudsman confirms or rejects much of what we have said here. It is interesting to note that it has been precisely in some areas of the Public Administration that over the past four years the complaints have increased. It is not by chance — and, Mrs Elza Pais, it is not by greater publicity of the body — that there are more complaints: 42 % of the increase in complaints in these four years relate, above all, to the abuses of the Ministry of Finance, 26 % to the Ministry of Internal Administration and 16 % to education. These are clear examples that confirm what many have said here and that official propaganda has sought to hide. It is to be looked at in this report that we also find that everyone praised Mrs Provedora for having performed these functions independently, in a position so difficult today in Portugal, which is that of the independent bodies to carry out their mission with complete independence. That is what we must demand of the institutions! Another very concrete example, which is perhaps one of the greatest chagas in our judicial system, has to do with prisons. They are indeed embarrassing for all of us and there is much to do in this situation. It is worth stressing, for example, the conduct of the Directorate-General responsible for educational centres, which accepted Mr. Provedora's recommendations and immediately made changes, unlike the SEF ( Service of Foreigners and Borders ) and what happens with the reception of immigrants in Portugal, especially asylum seekers. If we are all proud of the policy of the host State of people seeking refuge and asylum in Portugal, we must be truly ashamed of the conditions given to many of these people. What happens in temporary reception centres is a shame for all of us and we must unite to fight and change this situation. That's why the SEF has so many times closed its ears to what Mrs. Provider said. But if we look at the Public Administration, we also see abuses, in great quantity, some due to prepotence or incompetence, or usually due to lack of staff, around those who are the weakest of us all: the older, pensioners and pensioners. This says a lot about the lack of conditions that have been given to the Public Administration in a vital period of our democracy. It's not by chance, ladies and gentlemen. Members, that the exponential increase in complaints has occurred over the past four years, because we have always said that the State and the Government have not followed up the economic recovery that began in 2014 of strengthening the competences and capacities of these sectors. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Defending Mrs. Providor's report and independence is a fundamental mission for this House, because it is increasingly important to ensure that the institutions fulfil their role, although often, contrary to that, they are escorted into their mission by decisions of ministries, the Ministry of Finance or the Government. It is good that there are those who still struggle for independence and freedom in Portugal. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u81	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u82	Mr António Filipe of the CFP Parliamentary Group speaks for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u83	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This Annual Report from the Ombudsman to the Assembly of the Republic is an important element of work for us. Moreover, it is to welcome the improvement that has occurred in the Ombudsman's activity reports over the years, providing this House with a valuable element of work on its activity and also on the grounds of complaints from citizens, particularly in the face of the functioning of the Public Administration. It is worth noting the growing prestige of this constitutional body — the Ombudsman — over the years, taking up a period of a few years of bad memory, in which there was an impasse regarding the designation of the holder of this State body, which was obviously negative to the activity of the Ombudsman. But, having been recovered a few years ago, this situation has been a matter of several mandates, and we have found that the Ombudsman has come to prestigious his role. Proof of this is the implicatement that is being charged, even though beyond that which would strictly be its own status, as happened, as we know and has already been mentioned, concerning the fire that occurred in Pedrogão in 2017, but also as an entity with human rights responsibilities. It is therefore important to highlight and enhance the increasingly prestigious role that the Ombudsman has been taking. This report points to a significant increase in complaints in previous years in 2018 and 2019, but this was a trend that had already occurred in previous years. when we are discussing this report almost by the end of 2020, we are concerned about the following: we are discussing the Ombudsman's report for a typical year, 2019, in a typical year, 2020. However, this leaves us with a concern for which we have not yet responded, because only the report on 2020 can be elucidating from the consequences of the period that the country is going through with regard to the Ombudsman's activities and the complaints of the citizens with it. Of course, no one is unaware that the year 2020 will be very problematic from that point of view, but with this record of concern, what we are considering is the year 2019, in which, however, there has already been a significant increase in complaints to the Ombudsman. We can see this from the point of view of the increasing prestige of the Ombudsman, because, of course, if they did not have the growing expectation that the Ombudsman would help to solve people's specific problems, citizens would not resort to it. Therefore, this increase in recourse to the Ombudsman means a prestigious factor of this body and also of citizens' awareness of their rights. However, we are faced with a very worrying signal about the capacity of the Public Administration and some of its decisive sectors that have already been mentioned, such as social security or the Tax Authority, to respond to the fair claims of citizens. This has several explanations and one of them, as it is evident, results from the impoverishment of public administration in human resources, in frameworks, in staff. This is something that has been reported over the years and is a matter that has worried the CFP, which has been translated into concrete proposals for strengthening human resources in various areas of the Public Administration.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u84	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u85	We know that for many years a campaign was held in Portugal that there were more public servants. The PSD and CDS governments have put into practice a policy of job liquidation in the Public Administration, of large tens of thousands of employees, and recovery has not been done in recent years. This is a fact!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u86	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u87	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u88	I shall conclude immediately, Mr President. This recovery must be done, because citizens really need a public administration that solves their problems and is at their service, which implies, unequivocally, more human resources. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u89	We have thus reached the end of the second item on our agenda. We will move on to the third point, which consists in the general assessment of the Bill No 35 / XIV / 1. a ( ALRAM ) — In defence of the right of hearing of the self-government bodies of the Autonomous Regions First amendment to Law No 40 / 96 of 31 August. To open the debate, Mrs Sara Madruga da Costa, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u90	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The initiative in question concerns a very relevant issue, namely the participation of the self-government bodies of the autonomous regions in the legislative process and in the affairs of the Republic. With this initiative, adopted unanimously, the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira intends to amend the deadlines to be observed in the hearings of those bodies, so that they do not become a formality, without useful sense, in the wake of our legal-constitutional order. The question is: to extend the deadline for consulting the Legislative Assembly from 15 to 20 days; to extend the deadline for consulting the Regional Government from 10 to 15 days; to provide for a delay in the deadline whenever the complexity of the matter justifies it; and to establish a minimum period of five days for the announcement in case of urgency. The Legislative Assembly further proposes that it be extended to the non-compliance of the deadlines for commencing unconstitutionality or illegality, depending on the nature of the acts envisaged for non-compliance with the duty of hearing of the self-government bodies of the Autonomous Regions. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the diploma aims to improve and ensure that some difficulties have occurred in the past in the relationship between the Assembly of the Republic and the governing bodies themselves and to avoid situations of violation and disrespect for the hearing duty of the Autonomous Regions such as those that have already occurred, when, for example, Parliament has come to ask for an opinion from the regions after the diplomas have already been voted on. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : More complex and shameful situation, which certainly does not resolve with a law, is that of the relationship between this Government of the Republic and Madeira's own government bodies. The government continues to rule in a scandalous way and to do everything to harm Madeira. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, for this government it is worth everything, but even everything, when Madeira is concerned, from ignoring, delaying, not responding, excluding and discriminating. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister is no longer hiding anyone who the Madeirans are at the last place in the list of their priorities. Not even during the pandemic did the Government respond to Madeira's requests: it systematically ignored all requests for aid, refused to grant Madeira a moratorium on the EAP ( Economic and Financial Assistance Programme ), refused to grant an endorsement. So far, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Madeira has not received any direct help in dealing with the pandemic and it will still have to pay more than EUR 84 million — I repeat, plus EUR 84 million — because the government has not been able to be supportive of the Madeirans and to grant an endorsement of the loan that the Region will hire to respond to the health crisis. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we will not give up denouncing this position and this unacceptable and unqualifying behaviour of the Government of the Republic towards Madeira, position and behaviour those who had their maximum exponent in the economic recovery plan of Costa Silva. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, how can it be possible that the Government has not even heard Madeira on this plan and that the region has been forced to make its contribution, like any citizen, at the stage of public consultation to this programme? It wasn't enough, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Government has still been able to exclude Madeira from all national plans and programmes. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Madeirans deserve more, they deserve a more supportive, inclusive government, they deserve a government that respects autonomy and respects the will of the people of Madeira. [[PSD applause.]] [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice-President Antonio Filipe.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u91	You have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Marta Freitas.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u92	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The proposal to amend the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira aims at strengthening and consolidating the whole process associated with the issue of opinion by the bodies of the Autonomous Region of Madeira, extending the hearing time to these bodies so that their opinions can be well substantiated and appropriate, truly defending the interests of the Madeirans and Porto-Saints, and these citizens being heard and considered, by the sovereign bodies of the Portuguese State, in all matters involving the interests of those who reside in the Autonomous Regions of Madeira and the Azores. It therefore calls on the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira to extend the current period of hearing in force so that in this way there is a quality in the work done in the regional bodies. Since this is a consensual proposal between the various parliamentary groups seated in the Legislative Assembly of Madeira, in the discussion of this amendment proposal, in the seat of the Legislative Assembly, it was unanimously defended that the current period in force for the auscultation of the Autonomous Regions is, at some times, impractical, especially when it comes to certain matters of greater complexity, such as those related to labour issues, arguing that Members feel difficulty in the study of various matters more deeply in relation to the legislative projects of the central power body. The consultation of the central government's sovereignty bodies is forced when it comes to matters of competence of the same bodies covering the Autonomous Regions, as well as in matters of specific interest of the same regions in the definition of the positions of the Portuguese State, within the framework of the European legislative process. These hearings, enshrined in the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, are therefore imperative in a timely manner so that the rules with regional applications emanating from the central government bodies are considered appropriate. As has already been mentioned, this proposal also provides for the possibility of an application for an extension of the deadline when the complexity of matters so requires, and may even be shortened for a period not less than five days when there is a reasoned urgency of an opinion on the legislative proposals. It is therefore intended to strengthen the autonomous power of the Autonomous Regions of Madeira and the Azores before the central sovereignty bodies, from the time of the entry into force of this amendment, and that all this regulatory and constitutional process is useful in the fairness and quality of the legislative process. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group therefore considers that this proposal of the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira is a fair request and that it should be accepted, being the Socialist Party alongside these same requests, and recalls that, with regard to the Autonomous Region of the Azores, a special rule is already applied, provided for in Article 188. the Political-Administrative Statute of the Autonomous Region of the Azores, 20 to 15 days, depending on the issue of the opinion either of the respective competence of the Legislative Assembly or of the Regional Government. It is therefore fair that the organs of the government of the Autonomous Region of Madeira also enjoy this period for auscultation, thus passing from 15 to 20 days the opinions resulting from the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira and from 10 to 15 days those of the Regional Government. I also leave a note on the proposed amendment to Article 9. the, in order to mention the consequence of non-compliance with the hearing duty or non-fulfillment of the deadlines, which seems to us redundant, since this derives from the existing legal-constitutional framework. In short, this bill effectively presents the full merit of promoting and strengthening the effective participation of the Autonomous Regions in the legislative process of the Assembly of the Republic and the Government and deserves the support of the Socialist Party, leaving these notes of reflection and clarification. Finally, I leave a note, as a result of the intervention of Mrs Sara Madruga from the Costa, who referred to some situations, which actually occurred, of deadlines not established by the Regional Government. We hope that this principle, which has been discussed today, and this democratic stance by the Socialist Party, will always be present and a practice by the Regional Government and the Legislative Assembly of Madeira; we hope that there will always be time to listen to the municipalities, that there will always be an opportunity in the measures to listen to all the intervening entities, all the social partners, which often also fails; we hope that today's principle and example will also be in the Legislative Assembly of Madeira and, in particular, that this is the position by the Regional Government. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u93	Mr João Pinho de Almeida has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u94	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As has already been said, this bill, which comes to us from the Autonomous Region of Madeira, makes all the sense and has much to do with the dignity of parliamentary work. There are a number of parliamentary work, especially those that go through the committees, which often do not respect the spirit with which they were created, and this is one of them. The hearing of the Autonomous Regions, as in other cases, for example, the hearing of the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities or of the National Association of Freguesias, is not a bureaucratic assumption, is an essential contribution to the legislative process of a country which, in its Constitution, has accepted a regime which has two Autonomous Regions. It has two autonomous regions and, in the context of this autonomy, it has a number of responsibilities, on the one hand, which require those regions to speak out in all matters which may be relevant to them and, on the other hand, in a logic of taking into account the overallity of the national territory in the legislative processes, also to receive the views of the bodies legitimately elected in the Autonomous Regions. Here, in the plenary, we do not set a good example: when an amendment of this law was made to one autonomous region and not to the other, clearly, that was a wrong legislative process. It makes no sense that there are different rules for one autonomous region and another. What are we talking about, after all? We are talking, for example, about asking for an opinion from a Legislative Assembly in a region or a regional government one day to receive it from there two days ago. This is not serious from the point of view of the legislative procedure, because either the opinion is not sufficiently thought and detailed or is not simply sent, since the bodies do not have the conditions to do so. The importance of autonomy requires us to take this responsibility in this particular legislative process. The CDS will therefore vote in favour of the amendments, even because it considers them balanced, either in the possibilities for extending the deadline or in the possibilities for reducing the deadline. We believe that the possibilities of reduction, as a matter of urgency, are balanced and we believe that the possibilities of extension, by complexity, are also balanced. Therefore, this bill has all this balance and, once again, it is a good way — and I would like to end this idea — to show us that the Autonomous Region of Madeira is able to contribute with serenity to the resolution of what may be problems of articulation between the Government of the Republic, the Government of the Region, the organs of the Republic and the bodies of the region. So it had that same elevation, that same responsibility and that same sense of State the Government of the Republic and certainly the Madeirans and port-saintenses would not be as damaged as they are at the moment, by the absolute and unacceptablely differentiated treatment given to the Autonomous Region of Madeira.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u95	Mr José Manuel Pureza has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u96	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: After the initial ping-pong between PS and PSD on relations between the organs of the Government of the Republic and the self-government bodies of the Autonomous Regions, I believe that the intervention made by Mr João Almeida raises the questions as they should be put. We agree precisely with the way you put the matter, precisely from the point of view of the effectiveness of hearings.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u97	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u98	That is, we can have a purely formal figure and that is, let us say, fulfilled in a bureaucratic way, without any useful effect, or we can give effective use to these consultations and therefore necessarily the opinions must be requested in advance leading to that. In fact, the Constitutional Court itself, on several occasions, but at least in 2006, stressed a judgment which, I believe, makes clear doctrine in this regard, if it was necessary. I would like to mention, in order to record: 'If the right of hearing is to be emptied in a formality without a useful sense, the opportunity to pronounce the right holder must lie at a stage of the legislative procedure appropriate to the weighting, by the legislative body, of the opinion that the hearing body is to issue, with the possibility of its direct incidence in the options of the proposed legislation. The full exercise of the right of hearing thus presupposes that, in addition to a reasonable period of time for this purpose, it is exercised (or may exercise) at such a time that its purpose (participation and influence in the legislative decision) can be achieved, always taking into account the possible object of the pronunciation. Do not keep on seeking. ” This is in fact what we have before this initiative of the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira, i.e. correcting a parliamentary practice which has been too often abused by a bureaucratic understanding of this hearing obligation, which has also led to successive requests for supervision of unconstitutionality, e.g. in the laws of the 1999 Budget, of 2007, in which, precisely, the opinions were requested perfectly at this time to comply with formality rather than for the opinions to be effective. So, and in short, the Left Block agrees with the meaning of these amendments. There will eventually be room for some refinement in the specialty, but here we will be for this to be done, because the proposals that are made deserve our agreement. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u99	Mr. João Oliveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u100	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would of course like to say on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group that we welcome the Madeira Regional Legislative Assembly for this bill that it presented to the Assembly of the Republic. We welcome, in particular, the set of contributions which, in particular, this proposal for a law makes it possible to solve a problem whose best solution would simply be prevented. I would say that more than solving time-limit problems, or extending them, or finding ways for them to be met, I believe it is important, in the functioning of the sovereign bodies, whether the Assembly of the Republic or the Government, that respect for the right to the hearing of the Regional Legislative Assemblys and of the Regional Governments, as organs of the Autonomous Regions, should be realized as an integral part of respect for any legislative diploma of the Republic, which must, of course, have such consideration. I would therefore say that even better than these solutions proposed by the Regional Legislative Assembly of Madeira, only compliance and respect for the right of hearings of the Autonomous Regions can overcome this problem. I would also like to say that, in our reading, what is proposed by the Regional Legislative Assembly of Madeira deserves no objection. The extension of deadlines does not justify any objection or repair, nor does the advance forecast for clarification, in relation to the possibilities for dilating the deadlines or shortening, although, in relation to the shortening of the deadlines, there is indeed a need to fine-tune something. I just wanted to draw the attention of the honourable Members. Members for a process which, very recently, called for an urgent hearing by the bodies themselves of the Autonomous Regions, which was the state of emergency declaration process, whose requests for hearing by the bodies of the Autonomous Regions naturally lacked urgency. I would say that no Member in the Assembly of the Republic will recognise that a five-day period to give an opinion on the state of emergency is probably not consistent with the urgency of that matter. There is, of course, a question which can be settled legally, because the regime of the state of the site and the state of emergency consists of an organic law and an ordinary law must take into account what the organic law has to do with the state of exception. In any case, this is just one aspect on which I believe that there is a need for consideration of some refinement in this matter, naturally not raising any objection to this requirement made in the proposed law of the Legislature of the Autonomous Region of Madeira in a request for justification in the declaration of the sovereignty body, which is why urgency is required in the request for its opinion. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I would say that, on the part of the CFP, we essentially follow this fair claim that the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira brings this bill to the Assembly of the Republic. We are, of course, available to contribute to the improvements that the text of the law needs, so that the law of the Republic can be a law of which results in a solution which, not only with regard to the Autonomous Region of Madeira, but also with regard to the Autonomous Region of the Azores, can overcome the problems identified and which have already been mentioned in previous interventions.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u101	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u102	Mrs Sara Madruga from Costa, you have the floor, since, of course, you still have time. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u103	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would just like to regret that the PS has lost another opportunity to demarcate this position, which we consider to be truly unacceptable, of the Government of the Republic in relation to Madeira. The Socialist Party has thus lost another opportunity to demonstrate that it is on Madeira's side and continues to say nothing about this discriminatory treatment and the lack of solidarity of the Government of the Republic with regard to the endorsement, which will cost all the Madeirans plus EUR 84 million. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u104	We therefore conclude this item on the agenda. We will move on to the fourth point, which provides for the general discussion of the Bill No 36 / XIV / 1. a ( ALRAM ) — Committees of Inquiry of the Legislative Assemblies of the Autonomous Regions — First amendment to Law No 48 / 2014 of 28 July. We are waiting for inscriptions so that we do not have to move to the next point without any intervention. [[Pause.]] Mrs Sara Madruga from Costa, we were just waiting for your intervention. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u105	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This initiative, also by the authorship of the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira, aims to correct an inequality and eliminate a difference in treatment that has no reason to be. In 2014 Parliament granted the parliamentary committees of inquiry of the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of the Azores of the powers of investigation of the judicial authorities themselves and did not provide the same for the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in the previous Parliament, the Madeiran Parliament presented to the same national Parliament a proposal which ended, however, because it is not discussed and which is now resumed in this session. I therefore draw the attention of the House and of the ladies and gentlemen. Members for the importance of correcting this inequality and approving this initiative. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, what is at stake is to equate the legal regime of the committees of inquiry in the two legislative assemblies ; it is to assign Madeira the same rights and powers as provided for in the committees of inquiry set up in the Azores ; it is to allow the right to co-judgment by the judicial authorities, criminal police bodies and administrative authorities in the same terms as the courts ; it is to allow Madeira to apply the criminal procedural law to the justification for refusal to submit documents, lack of appearance, refusal of testimony or lack of cooperation considered relevant; it is to enable the criminal offence of failure to submit documents, unjustified lack of appearance, unjustified refusal of testimony or unjustified failure to provide relevant information. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, what is at stake is, above all, correcting an injustice and transforming Law No 48/2014 into a law applicable to the two Autonomous Regions, without any distinction, ending an unjustified discrimination that has lasted for six years. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u106	Mr. João Pinho de Almeida has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u107	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Mr President was one of the Members, like Mr José Manuel Pureza and myself, who worked on the review of this legal regime of parliamentary investigations. In fact, there are matters, as mentioned in the proposed law and even in its explanatory statement, which fall within the sole competence of the Assembly of the Republic, and therefore the parliamentary investigation regime has been revised accordingly. What's the matter? The legislation on these committees of inquiry in the Regional Assemblys shall be referred to the regional legislative initiative. There is therefore the following problem: there cannot be an equalization between rights and even powers of the investigative committees of the Assembly of the Republic with the rights and powers of the committees of inquiry of the Legislative assemblies of the Autonomous Regions because they cannot legislate on matters which are solely within the competence of the Assembly of the Republic. For example, the simplest case will be the question of disobedience and that of someone who refuses to testify in a committee of inquiry of the Legislative assemblies of the Autonomous Regions. This cannot have an identical effect to that which will have someone who refuses to testify in an inquiry committee of the Republic Assembly. from our point of view, what the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira wants makes sense, because these committees are both of inquiry here and in the Legislative assemblies of the Autonomous Regions. The Assembly of the Republic is not an appeal body for the committees of inquiry of the Legislatures of the Regions, so that must be the appeal body. I also spoke about the issue of disobedience, which relates to the relationship with the criminal authorities to obtain information and to the relationship between political and judicial bodies. in this sense, on the part of the CDS-PP, we will enable and vote in favour of this bill. We believe that it is a contribution for parliamentary investigations in the Autonomous Regions to be a fundamental instrument of the supervisory power that all the Legislative assemblies must have.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u108	Mr. José Manuel Pureza has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u109	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is a bit strange to have this debate and this legislative amendment, because it does not really make sense and is not understood why it is — except for reasons other than those we are to discuss here — the difference in the legal regime of parliamentary committees of inquiry carried out by the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira and the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Azores. The 2004 Act established a set of powers for the committees of inquiry in the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of the Azores and should have done so in the same way for the governing bodies of the Autonomous Region of Madeira. So it was not wrong and inexplicably from our point of view. Therefore, what we are proposing here is that there be a balance, equal powers and responsibilities of parliamentary committees of inquiry in the two Chambers, in the area of assistance from judicial authorities, criminal policy bodies, administrative authorities and, as already mentioned by Mr João Almeida, criminalization of disobedience, something which, of course, must be present in the legal regime of parliamentary committees of inquiry of this Legislative Assembly. With all honesty, we believe that it is about correcting a mistake that should have been corrected longer. I am glad that the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira takes this initiative because it allows Parliament to correct what should have happened. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u110	Mr Olavo Câmara has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u111	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : « Autonomy » — it is the way the discussion brought here today, at this point and at the previous point, since we are discussing precisely a project that came from the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira, which is the maximum representative of the autonomous power of the Autonomous Region of Madeira. Allow me this classification of the debate, because for any island, any progress, however small it may be, in deepening autonomy, is another victory for the future of our region and for the future of unity in our country. This progress here today is nothing less than strengthening the supervisory powers of the first body of the Government of the Autonomous Region of Madeira, of the regional Parliament, for example what has already happened in the Assembly of the Republic and in the Legislative Assembly of the Azores. The issue is the same as was discussed in this House in 2014, which was approved by all the parties of this Parliament. A unanimous support that made the whole sense in 2014, at the initiative of the Azores, and that for the Socialist Party makes sense that it also happens for Madeira today. The enlargement of Law No. 48 / 2014 has merited the agreement of all parties in the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira and will allow full exercise of their supervisory powers and union in the best way the acts of the Regional Government and its regional administration. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we are faced with a realisation of what was already foreseen in the Political Administrative Statute of the Autonomous Region of Madeira and in the Portuguese Constitution itself, which is thus assigned to the Legislative Assembly of Madeira the same legal powers and powers in carrying out parliamentary investigations, as is already done in the Assembly of the Republic and in the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Azores. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, at this point I would like to remind you that it is not enough to provide for powers and powers for the bodies of the Autonomous Regions themselves. It is also necessary to materialise them in order to put all possible tools at their disposal, such as what this bill has done. The autonomy must be met, it must be exercised in the evolutionary sense, in order to respond in the best way to the challenges that island regions face every day. Mr President, in the same way that we are strengthening the powers of the regional Parliament today, there will also have to be more attention by our House, the Assembly of the Republic, in relation to the diplomas that come to us here, precisely from the regional parliaments. This bill of the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira is the same one that arrived in 2017 and which expired with the end of the previous Parliament without being put to the vote, a situation that cannot happen again because of the respect and work of the regional parliaments and respect for all those we represent in this House. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, autonomy must always be defended. Any bad example of the use of autonomy in our regions, whether or not it agrees with the direction the regions are following or even when the autonomic discourse is captured for a political-party guerrilla that at nothing serves our regions, can never be an excuse for any punishment of the Autonomous Regions or for the failure to deepen our autonomy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Self-government is a regime that needs to continue to be deepened. Self-government is a regime that has to continue to be defended. Autonomy is the future in our hands. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u112	The Socialist Party is an autonomous party, which built freedom in 74, created the autonomy of our regions in 76 and once again today stands beside the deepening of Maderian autonomy. The Socialist Party is in favour of this diploma of the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira. Thank you. It is always good to defend autonomy in this House. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u113	For an intervention, Mr João Oliveira has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u114	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The proposed law of the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira, which we are now discussing, is in fact aimed at overcoming a problem that is objective, a problem of differentiation in the legal regime envisaged for the functioning of the committees of inquiry in the two Autonomous Regions and which is, in fact, a differentiation that cannot find any kind of objective support. This is a problem that needs to be overcome and it seems to us that, from this point of view, what is proposed for the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira is also an objective reference to the reproduction of the legal regime of the committees of inquiry to the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira and exactly the same rules governing the legal regime of the committees of inquiry of the Autonomous Region of Azores. Therefore, we deserve no objection to the consideration of this criterion which the Autonomous Region of Madeira has intended to propose to the Assembly of the Republic and we follow up with the words which have already been made here by other Members. Members to record, in fact, the perplexity of a situation of imbalance such as this which exists and which, in our view, is proposed to be overcome by a criterion which seems objective to us, even if this matter is not an issue free of complexity and an in-depth discussion, as has been mentioned here, not only from the point of view of the discussion that has been made over the years with regard to the legal regime of parliamentary investigations, but also in its application to the Autonomous Region of Madeira. In addition, during the debate in which the proposal of the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of the Azores was discussed, there was even the opportunity to deepen in a relatively significant way the implementation and the constitutional framework that was planned for the functioning of the committees of inquiry, either in the Assembly of the Republic or in the Legislative assemblies of the Autonomous Regions. Until the review of this discussion and its elements are important for us to find the appropriate solution in this legislative process to put an end to this problem of unsustainable and unjustified imbalance in the situation in which the committees of inquiry of the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira operate in the face of those operating in the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of the Azores. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u115	For an intervention, Mrs Sara Madruga from Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u116	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I should like to begin by saying that autonomy is not discussed, autonomy is practised, and it is practiced daily. It is therefore strange that the Socialist Party is now speaking of autonomy when it has systematically come to be complicit, here, in this House, in this Government of the Republic, when it also supports the discretionary treatment that is given to Madeira, when it supports the lack of solidarity, which we have already referred to here, for the grant of an endorsement which will cost EUR 84 million. So, strange and sorry that we are now talking about autonomy, on the part of a party that is complicit in unacceptable and discretionary treatment with regard to Madeira.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u117	You still have the floor Mr. Olavo Câmara.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u118	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: My colleague Sara Madruga from Costa, besides being a colleague in this House, is also a colleague from the region. And what makes me really sad is that the PSD still doesn't understand what autonomy is. We have a regional government that is autonomous; we have a regional government with the best tool we could have in our hands, which is precisely autonomy, we just need to exercise it, we need no rhetoric against the Republic. I know that this gives political dividends in our Autonomous Region of Madeira and that they prefer to have a political argument instead of solving people's problems, the problems of Madeirans. This is a lack of ability to use the autonomy that we have in our hands. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u119	We are thus finishing the fifth item on our agenda and we are going to move to the sixth item on the evaluation of the Annual Internal Security Report — 2019. Mr João Cotrim de Figueiredo.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u120	Ladies and gentlemen. Members: When internal security issues are discussed, there seems to be a general consensus...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u121	Mr. Deputy, don't hurt me, but, speaking of the second row, you have to wear a mask.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u122	This discussion was held here at the plenary last week with President Ferro Rodrigues and he did not remember that decision being taken at the Conference of Leaders. To the contrary, but if Mr. President insists, I'm going to the rostrum without a problem.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u123	I'm not in a position to confirm. So far, the indication he had was that it was only spoken without a mask of the first row or rostrum. Sir, please, come to the gallery. Don't hurt me. [[Pause.]] As the Government, which is already in the Chamber, has informed the Bureau that it intends to open the debate, I apologize to Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo and I give the floor to Mr. Minister for Internal Administration.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u124	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Government was present outside the Hemicycle awaiting the conclusion of the previous debate, which happened more expeditiously than expected. This debate on the Annual Report on Internal Security (RASI ) is based on the circumstances of the very unique year we live in at a different time. We know that it is the government's obligation to present this report by the end of March. However, the pandemic has determined that, according to the Assembly of the Republic, this deadline would be deferred by the end of June, the date on which the report was presented, and is already being discussed by the end of October differently from what is usual. It is in this context that this debate takes place. This debate confirms the year 2019 as the one in which Portugal has consolidated its position as one of the safest and peaceful countries in the world. For the second year, Portugal was considered the third safest country in the world. This is due much to the work of the men and women serving Portugal in the security forces. The year 2019 was the second year with the lowest values ever, either of general crime or of violent and serious crime. And if we even want to have a longer-term view, the years of the previous legislation, between 2016 and 2019, were the four years with lower indicators of registration of criminal practices since there was an Annual Internal Security Report. Does this mean everything's okay? No, we have phenomena that we naturally follow: the growth of reported domestic violence is a priority that determines proposals by the government; the increase of computer ridicule phenomena, attention to phenomena such as crime practice, also by computer and that are associated with bullying and new crime phenomena involving young people, phenomena of radicalization, xenophobia, racism, which are absolutely intolerable. Let me - in fact, because we are having this debate by the end of 2020 - give you some indicators of what the preliminary results are for the first nine months already 2020. In 2020, this special circumstance we live in has contributed to a reduction in general crime by around 10 % by the end of September and a reduction in violent and serious crime by 11 %. But again, indicators such as the significant growth of computer jokes, the growth of online phenomena or phenomena such as driving without legal authorization were decisive. On the other hand, the significant reduction of phenomena such as home theft, a tendency of slight reduction of domestic violence, a very significant reduction of forest fire crimes, proximity police, the report of domestic violence in the first 72 hours with uniform criteria, the fight against rural fire or forest fire, the concern about proximity security are priorities, in an effort that is of all Portuguese society but in which we owe much to those who serve Portugal in security forces and services, consolidating the image of our country as one of the safest and peaceful countries in the world. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u125	Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u126	Mr President, I shall begin my speech, which must go directly to the top of the most troubled this week. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: When internal security issues are discussed, there seems to be a general consensus that there is a manifest lack of human and technical resources to combat crime and other types of threat to our collective security. There seems to be consensus, but only until this Annual Internal Security Report is read. It is that the report reveals that the effect of the GNR ( Republican National Guard ), the PSP ( Public Security Police ), the Judicial Police, the Foreign and Border Service and the Maritime Police decreased in 2019 compared to 2018, leaving almost 1300 elements and entering only 408. The report also reveals that a third — about EUR 33 million — of the infrastructure and equipment programming law is to be implemented. It now appears in the State Budget Bill to 2021 a further increase of EUR 10 million. If it's not to run, well you can put the increase you want there. But what this report does not reveal, and it should highlight, is that the number of casualties per accident in the security forces is more than one fifth of the total casualties, only in the PSP. In the last decade, on average, almost three elements of the security forces per day were assaulted. Despite the pious intentions contained in the guidelines on criminal policy, the picture is not improving, it is getting worse first. There are cases of assaults on security forces, cases of violent resistance to arrests, cases of stoning or shooting during surveillance actions. The women and men of the security forces are the first line of defense of the rule of law, without which a society we wish to be more liberal cannot work. These women and men deserve more respect and leadership than this government is evidently unable to exercise.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u127	For an intervention, Mr Nelson Basilio Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u128	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Members: The lack of a critical spirit and excessive focus on a statistical dimension are the two fundamental problems which are evident in this 2019 Annual Internal Security Report. Anyone reading it will perhaps have the idea that Portugal is a safe oasis and that there are no major changes to make. But this reading may also lead us to believe that, often, the reduction of crime is due to lack of means and not to the lack of crime itself. Let us look at one example: the crime of corruption. If in 2019 Portugal lost points in the international index of perception of corruption, falling below the average of the European Union and at the level of Spain, Barbados and Qatar, if we read the 2019 report we see that the number of investigations into the crime of corruption decreased by 28 %. What justifies this decrease and this contradiction? And what justifies the removal of priority actions under the 2020 guidelines, for example, the strengthening of monitoring and evaluation mechanisms of corruption risk prevention plans or the promotion of financial audits to higher-risk processes, particularly in the context of public procurement? What justifies this backwardness, taking into account the country's corruption situation and increasing risks in this area by virtue of the COVID-19? When, still this week, we heard the Director of the PJ (Judicial Police) complain about the lack of specialized means in combating the crime of corruption, it is not understood how the strengthening of resources is not within the framework of priority actions. But in the case of crimes against pet animals, the situation is the same: we see a 5 % decrease in complaints, which in no way mirrors the reality of the country. And, in this case, more than a problem of lack of means, we have a problem of excessive bureaucracy in the complaint, which greatly makes it impossible to advance beyond the informality or plan of intentions. Just remember, one year ago, we heard a representative of SEPNA (Natural and Environmental Protection Service) complain that the fact that people reported on the Internet some cases suspected of this crime was detrimental to the work of the authorities. It has spent a year and, looking at priority actions, as in the 2018 report, we still do not see a single measure concerning the prevention, investigation or punishment of these crimes, which well demonstrates the lack of trace and realism of this report. It is never too much to remember that, last July, the NAP proposed here that crimes against pet animals be, in the years 2020 to 2022, placed among priority research crimes, something that would not only ensure stronger action by the authorities on these crimes, but also would certainly give more realism to future reports. However, this will not happen because this proposal for a good sense of the NAP has been rejected with the votes against PS, PSD, PCP, CDS-PP, PEV and CH, and the abstention of the IL. This vote not only demonstrates a lack of character but, above all, makes it clear that there is a lack of political will on the part of this Parliament to ensure compliance with the legal framework applicable to it. It is not enough to make progress in the law, it is necessary to carry out these advances in practice. Mr President, I should like to inform you that the time I used has not been recorded, but I must have exceeded three minutes in 8 to 15 seconds.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u129	Thank you very much, Mr. However, over time has been attributed to PSD, which will be corrected, and this time is returned to PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u130	The PSD, of course, does not subscribe to the intervention!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u131	Mr Telmo Correia now speaks for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u132	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, Secretary of State : Mr Minister once again comes here to tell us what we know, i.e. that the country is a relatively safe country and that we do not have a security problem comparable to that of other countries, which is obviously a congratulator for all of us. However, there is something that seems to us to be relevant and that the Minister cannot — or should not — ignore, which is this: this statement did not start to be made with this government, nor with the previous government which was also from his party. During the most difficult period the country lived, when they governed the PSD and the CDS-PP, this trend, which was a declining trend, already existed. What is happening now—and this may not be serious yet, but it is a sign of alarm—is that for the first time, the trend is reversed, that is, for the first time, at the level of crime, we are not only in a declining trend, we are also in a growing trend, we have a sign of reversal of trend. Mr Minister, what is worth thinking is that, in correspondence between crime and social alarm, some of the types of crimes that we are growing are those that cause the most social alarm. They are, for example, thefts on public roads and assaults and attacks on heritage. These are some of the crimes that grow and are more relevant or heavier in the sense of security of the population, representing more than 80% in the community in general, but very focused on some districts of the country, including Lisbon, Porto, Setúbal, Braga, which is also not new. On the other hand, and as the CDS has always said, we also have a relevant phenomenon, from the point of view of internal security, which is the existence of more and more crimes committed by younger people, that is, there are also worrying signs from the point of view of juvenile delinquency. However, juvenile delinquency, the existence of more theft and the existence of such crimes cause, to some extent, a feeling of insecurity that we should not ignore. I would add to this, Mr Minister — it is not a special highlight in this report, but for us, it is a matter of concern, so I now take advantage of your presence to mention it — what has happened and how the government has dealt with what we all know today is a route of illegal immigration to our country and what Mr Minister, to my question, called « ridiculous», but which in the meantime the SEF has confirmed to be a route. This should be an essential concern of the Government.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u133	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u134	I shall indeed conclude, Mr President. The big issue here, Minister, is what the government is going to do. It is true that the security forces respond, but it is also true that the Minister has not responded to the promises he has made to the security forces themselves, in means, in equipment, in effective, in inputs, and even in essential rights, such as shift or risk subsidies. The big question, which lacks the answer, is this: are we a safe country, but will we continue to sacrifice the women and men of the security forces or will we finally do them justice? Thank you very much, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u135	For an intervention, Mrs Sandra Cunha from BE has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u136	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Members: A first note to say that the continuation of the trend of this reduced crime in Portugal cannot, unfortunately, overshadow the increase of some types of crime. Among the latter, Mr Minister has already mentioned, in particular, the crimes of computer jokes and communications, but I am referring in particular to the crime of domestic violence, which records 29 498 participations, plus 3015 cases and an increase of 11, 4 % compared to 2018. This is the highest value since 2010. It should be noted that, despite these increases — increases in one year and decreases in another — the fact is that there is a certain stability in the numbers of participation of domestic violence, which is always below 30 000 participations per year. But this apparent stability cannot be seen as good news, because it means that everything continues more or less in it and that, in fact, we are not winning the fight against this absolutely abject crime. Domestic violence continues to correspond to the second largest increase in terms of participating crime, the first increase in the category of crimes against people; the overwhelming majority of victims continue to be women and the overwhelming majority of the complaints remain men. And confirming the gender mark of the domestic violence crime, RASI tells us that more than 50% of the committed voluntary homicides occur in a marital or parental/family context and that, of the 35 fatal victims, 26 occurred in a conjugal context, and again, the overwhelming majority of them women. In the light of this data and the Government's intention to continue the extension of the network of services and information offices to victims of domestic violence in the DIAP ( Departments of Research and Criminal Action ), which is referred to in the RASI, I ask why we have continued for many years with less than 60 % of the posts and teams equipped with victim care rooms and their specialized teams, despite the various commitments already made, in fact also within the State budget, for the territorial coverage of these equipment and these specialized teams. A second note also for the concern about sexual crimes, which again recorded increases, successive increases year after year, requiring much more attention and much more courage in their fight. I speak mainly of sexual abuse of children, adolescents and dependent minors, but also of other crimes against sexual freedom and self-determination, including rape. And they are also crimes that once again bear the gender mark: 95, 2 % of the defendants of the crimes of sexual abuse of children are male, 99, 3 % of the defendants of the crime of rape are male and 91, 9 % of the victims of rape are female. They are crimes that require more attention and courage in their fight. On another point, Mr Minister, there is, in RASI, something that is not right. In fact, on page 232 of RASI - 2019, it is said that the year 2019 was the one in which the highest recruitment for GNR, PSP and SEF, i.e. for security forces and services, but the figures expressed on page 160 give us a completely different reality. Compared to 2018, there are fewer than 740 GNR effectives and less than 340 PSP effectives. We know and have consistently alerted for the output of more and more elements by age. When these revenues are going to happen, it is to be clarified. The Minister has consistently said that more elements will come in, but we do not know when and the trend has always been that of decline. A final note to mention the Government's intention to consolidate a migration policy based on the principles of solidarity and shared responsibility. Mr Minister, solidarity is not about arresting people who come looking for a better life, rather than fleeing from hunger, persecution and misery, in prisons and military facilities. It is not acceptable that Portugal has only a temporary installation centre and that the equivalent spaces are warehouses of people piled up without any conditions. When are more temporary installation centres or other solutions that guarantee the reception of these people under dignified and human conditions, because they are people who, most of the time, when they are properly integrated, so much contribute to the country's economy? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u137	Mr. André Coelho Lima has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u138	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Minister for Internal Administration, Mr and Mrs. Members: We are reviewing the Annual Internal Security Report for the year 2019 practically in November 2020. That is to say, we are looking at a report on the previous year practically ending the following year. Now, the proof of the non-currentity of what we are looking at is that in his initial speech he chose to bring to this Parliament the new numbers of crime already reported to the present year, to the year 2020, which alone demonstrates the non-currentity of the document we are currently examining. Mr Minister, if it is true that we have been in the pandemic—we all know that, Portugal and the world have been there— it is also true that until 31 March RASI had to be delivered in this Parliament and that the statement of the state of emergency is mid-March, it has been in the hands of the government since the end of January, sensibly. Mr Minister, more than this, it is the opportunity for the delay in delivering RASI to be able to bring up-to-date in the strategic guidelines, because RASI, in addition to reflecting on crime data in a given year, presents the strategic guidelines for the following year, depending on the data of the previous year. So, as incredible as it seems, we arrived in June, we received the RASI and there is no change in the strategic guidelines for this year, particularly in the area of health safety. And several times the PSD has said, in its own forums, but also, in particular, in this House, that health security is, today, the greatest fear of the citizens, and understandably because of the situation in which we are all involved. An annual report whose delivery is mid-year is, understandably, too late and had to provide for the circumstances in which the country has been involved since March. However, he did not foresee, that is to say, he just kept what was already on the paper and did not make any kind of update, despite the various warnings about it. More, Minister : the Annual Internal Security Report allows us to see the implementation index of the Infrastructure Programming Act and Security Services Equipment and we have verified that we have a multi-annual implementation since 2017 of 62, 5 %. It is almost half, it is manifestly little in view of what was promised by the government, and specifically the year 2019 presents an execution of 55, 3 %. Therefore, if every time the Government proposes to this Parliament a certain intervention, in terms of the Programming Law, only half of it, we must start taking half of the time to the Government, because that is enough for what is actually going to be executed. Mr Minister, I would like to point out to you that our reflection on crimes, the crime catalogue, what the 2019 RASI presents to us and those who deserve us the greatest concern. There is a crime that we all consider heinous, which is that of domestic violence, which grows in a frightening way. We know that it could mean more participations—and hopefully so! — but, in any event, an increase of 10, 6 % in 2019 compared to 2018 and, as Mr. Deputy of the Left Block has said now, representing 50 % of the total homicides in Portugal, is a matter that has to concern us irrespective of the classification in which Portugal is internationally in safety standards. We have to worry because it is a civilizational issue that has to involve us all. Then there are two other crimes that we consider important to mention at the moment, because they are crimes that represent new factors of crime: on the one hand, cybercriminality, whose phenomena have exponential increases, and we are talking about a threat to the lives of people and their security and stability that we do not know, because we are attacked without knowing that we are being attacked. It is a new reality, it is true, but the computer joke, for example, has a growth in the order of 66, 7% and computer crimes a growth in the order of 42, 7%. They are huge growths for a new area of crime, but it is not new in the year 2019 because it was already present. Finally, Minister, illegal immigration routes. If the Minister permits me, I would like to give him the opportunity to draw back what he said to the country, as Minister of Internal Administration, when he classified himself as « ridiculous » — in fact, he was later assisted by the Minister for Foreign Affairs — the existence of illegal immigration routes and then the European agency Frontex (European Border and Coast Guard Agency), either the SEF or the information services, in his reports or — let him stop! — the Annual Internal Security Report itself to us by the Government, the own report which Mr Minister is defending, says that Portugal continues to serve as a subsidiary point of access to the European area, and an increase in illegal immigration with direct reflections in our country is expected. Mr Minister, what Mr Minister has described as ridiculous is in this report that we are looking at as a concern that we should bear in mind and, in addition to reflecting on the issues that he has brought here, he will then have the opportunity to be able to portray himself in the way he has qualified the routes of illegal immigration. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u139	Mr. João Oliveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u140	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Mr Minister, I would like to begin by registering with satisfaction a given objective which is that we discuss the 2019 Annual Internal Security Report, fortunately, without the jump that has marked other discussions of other annual internal security reports, particularly in years marked by crimes, for example, car and kidnapping, the so-called carjacking, which triggered some real outstanding discussions in some internal security reports, or the copper theft throughout the country, which generated a feeling of insecurity and unrest in the populations, in view of the criminal phenomenon that was occurring from north to south of the country, particularly in rural areas. We are pleased to note, I repeat, that this particular objective is not to do the discussion of this Annual Report on Internal Security under this distress, which does not mean that there are no reasons for concern—and I will mention them—but, above all, by stressing this because we consider this assessment, of course, that this results in increasing effectiveness, of a growing commitment, that has objective results, of our forces and security services, of all the means that are mobilized to respond to a series of criminal phenomena that have been addressed over the years, with some depth by the Assembly of the Republic. There is no significant change in the global values of crime, but in this Annual Report on Internal Security, there are phenomena that tend to worsen, such as the cases of the crime of computer jokes and communications, which Mr Minister has already mentioned, and which is an increase of 66 %. We are talking about 2019 data, but it has also been mentioned that there is a particular concern about 2020, until recently there has been public news that there has been a significant increase in complaints made in the crimes of computer jokes and communications. Therefore, these data that were already worrying about 2019 are at risk of becoming even more worrying about 2020. However, this element must be considered in order to take the necessary measures and so that this phenomenon can be addressed with due relevance as well. Of course, we are concerned about the 10 % increase in the domestic violence crime, which also causes renewed concerns not only because of this increase in relation to 2019 but because of the impact that decisions have to be taken to deal with the epidemic situation and which, regardless of the state of emergency, continue to demand in many circumstances. The confinement of some populations—as we have just seen today in relation to three other municipalities—the confinement of many families, of course, is a framework which is not conducive to the reduction in the verification of these occurrences, of the crime of domestic violence. And, Minister, this must be accompanied by measures corresponding to the concern that this phenomenon means. I say this about these two crimes as may be about some others. We also want to leave our concern about the crime of trafficking in persons, especially for labour exploitation. There are very serious and visible indications as to the seriousness of this issue that are not having the right answer, neither in the dismantling of networks, nor in the protection of victims. Another inevitable problem is the lack of effective forces and security services. Evolution in 2019 shows that all security forces and services — GNR, PSP, SEF, PJ and Maritime Police — entered 408 and left 1284. In the GNR, the negative balance was 800 effective and in the PSP was 334. In 2020, as it is known, even on the proposal of the CFP, a standard was entered in the State budget which aimed at the integration of 2500 professionals, but there was no recovery of effectives able to overcome this deficit so far in relation to that objective which was entered in the Budget. PSP and GNR have the greatest responsibilities in proximity police, and this requires effective. The positive balance of 114 effective in the Judicial Police and 147 in the SEF are also far from meeting the minimum needs of those forces. A total of 1337 officers in the Judicial Police, 1006 in the SEF and 522 in the Maritime Police is unbelievable, if we consider the responsibilities that they impose on these services.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u141	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u142	In conclusion, Mr President, leaving Mr Minister the following challenge: there is no word in the Annual Internal Security Report on the socio-professional situation of security forces and services. Now, knowing that they are the reasons for demotivating, particularly because of the lack of remuneration incentives, there is no word on this in the Annual Internal Security Report - we believe it to be a negative element and we would like to see that the Minister in that regard still some answer on this matter, some clarification and, above all, some prospect of solution to the problems that are felt by the personnel of the security forces and services. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u143	Mrs. Susana Amador has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u144	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr Secretary of State, Mr and Mr. Members: The Annual Internal Security Report, which we are considering today, mirrors an important path. A path of consolidation, a path of continuity of the sustained decline of crime, a path of trust and a path of realization of many of the defined guidelines. Starting with the consolidation, this report again stabilizes the image of Portugal. An internationally recognized image, such as the third most secure and peaceful country in the world, a fact which reveals that the Portuguese State has competently ensured the democratic legality of citizens' rights in the light of Article 272. the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic. It also reflects a path of trust, because it has been this relationship that has been developed between the security forces and the Portuguese. Therefore, on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, I would like to extend a greeting to all men and women who, in the security forces of this country and in the criminal police bodies, guarantee high levels of public security and the tranquillity that we all aspire to. This task, Mr. Minister and Mr. Members, it has become even more difficult, more delicate and demanding in view of the state of the pandemic we live in and the restrictive measures taken, especially when the state of emergency. However, by following these measures and implementing them, we have revealed, and we have been able to verify, that the security forces, with due proportionality and adequacy, have indeed had very balanced management and implementation in this delicate period, and we also welcome them. It is a path to continuity in the sustained decline of general and violent crime, which we must always assess in long cycles, because this is also how statistics from the criminal point of view are evaluated. The fact is that from the Internal Security Act 2008 to 2019, therefore several governments, we have found that there has been a reduction of more than 20 % in general crime and a reduction of more than 40 % in violent crimes and serious crimes during that period. Therefore, as I said, it is a sustained and continued descent of the crime of our country. Nevertheless, even in 2019, despite the 3 % increase in violent and serious crime, we have the second best record since there are records in this area, therefore a value we also want to point out. Contrary to what was mentioned by the PSD, there is a very important fact in this report: there are three crimes which, from the statistical point of view, come down, and these crimes also give the population a great sense of security or lack of security. I am referring to homicides, which have decreased 19, 1 %, compared to the previous year, I am referring to theft by pickpocketmen and theft of vehicles. So there are three types of crime in clear decreases. It has contributed to the slight growth of crime the increase in computer ridicule and communications, which we have already referred to, as well as domestic violence, which has grown 10, 6 % and that this parliamentary group obviously accompanies with all attention, because we understand that this is a fight by all, a fight by the Assembly of the Republic, the Government, society, all NGOs (non-governmental organizations), to break this long and too painful cycle of generational violence of gender. We therefore closely monitor the need to fully implement the recommendations of the Multidisciplinary Technical Commission, particularly within 72 hours after the complaint, the expansion of the GAVs ( Victim Support Offices ), which are happening in the investigation and criminal action departments, and stress that we have dedicated ourselves to combating this type of crime more than 1100 elements of the PSP and the GNR, in teams close to supporting the victim. Concreteization was also a path which this report has mirrored, because we are, of course, still betting on internal security which requires strengthening human, material and technological resources so that we can effectively pursue the prevention and investigation of all forms of crime. Therefore, in 2019 I would like to highlight the Infrastructure Programming Act and Security Forces Equipment, which still made a good way with the delivery of more than 1200 cars, 12 300 weapons and accessories and more 35 000 personal protective equipment, therefore a way of strengthening equipment for security forces, the multi-annual admission plan, which provides, by 2023, more than 10 000 professionals at the service of our security forces. In conclusion, there is also a strategic vision that permeates this report and also permeates government activity, because this strategic vision is fundamental, both in international and police cooperation at the level of major global threats, or in the concern of proximity to programmes that also give people this perception of security, which is very important. I am referring to programmes for the most vulnerable groups — children, the elderly and the disabled — such as the programmes I am here! or Elderly in Security, together with local contracts that have been increasing – we already have about 30 contracts with the authorities – also involving local power, increasingly close by.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u145	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u146	To conclude, Mr President, I would like to say that we want to continue to pursue a policy of solidarity with foreigners and refugees in Portugal and, therefore, in the first year of monitoring the overall migration plan, our national plan was the first, in fact, to be delivered and already has 80 % of the measures being implemented. In conclusion, internal security is a fundamental axis of the democratic rule of law, a State in which freedom and security are dimensions of human dignity and citizenship. We will never deviate from these values, until these are the constitutional principles in which we forge the free and sure country that we are proud to be. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u147	The Bureau no longer registers the parliamentary groups, so I give the floor to conclude this debate to Mr. Minister for Internal Administration, Eduardo Cabrita.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u148	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The serenity of this debate proves that security is one of the greatest assets of Portuguese society, an asset for social cohesion, an asset for investment promotion, an asset for the recovery of the crisis. I very much share Mr. João Oliveira's view, which, with his parliamentary experience, well compared the data of this report with what we have seen here. Because there is no giving back to this tremendous right:...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u149	That didn't come today!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u150	... in fact, positive evolution has been sustained, but the best four years of always, in terms of registered crime indicators, were 2016, 2017, 2018 and 2019, comparing with any of the previous ones and therefore we passed from 18. the safest country in the world in 2014 for 3. the year 2019 and 2020. More needs to be done in the fight against domestic violence, in the fight against xenophobia and racism, in the prevention of further growing computer jokes. this year, exceptional year and pandemic, what we verify is that the State authority has been exercised democratically, without the security forces ever being accused of abuse of authority. Therefore, the multiannual admission plan is so important: 10 000 new elements to be recruited for the security forces by 2023, with the limitations that the pandemic determines in training. Therefore, justice needs to be done, and this State budget for 2020 has already made it possible to pay 28 million euros of retroactives, supplements that between 2011 and 2018 had ceased to be paid. That is why the State budget for 2021 — here we are going to discuss it — provides for a special housing programme for young police officers. It is in this social consensus and in this appreciation of the unique role that the Portuguese owes to men and women who defend democracy and collective security in the security forces that we have built this future, on the basis of the robustness of the work done in 2019 and 2020. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-22.u151	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are finishing our work. I wanted to leave some information, however. First of all, I would like to remind you that tomorrow's plenary session will start at 9 a.m. and 30 minutes, and not at 10 a.m., as is the case in most cases. At the first item on the agenda we will proceed with the discussion of the Bills Nos 57 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Transposing Directive ( EU ) 2018 / 958 on a proportionality test to be carried out before approval of new professional regulations and 59 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Simplifies the procedures associated with the recognition of professional qualifications by transposing Directive 2005 / 36 / EC. of the second point is the discussion of the Bill No 58 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Authorizes the Government to legislate on the qualification and training of drivers of certain road vehicles for the carriage of goods and passengers by transposing EU Directive 2018 / 645. At the third point, we have the appreciation of Bill No. 570 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Transitional imposition of the mandatory use of mask in public spaces. The fourth point will be completed with the joint discussion of Bill 214 / XIV / 1. a ( Citizens) — Drug treatment assisted post mortem, 71 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Amendment to the legal regime of the replacement pregnancy ( seventh amendment to Law No 32 / 2006 of 26 July ), 223 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Seventh amendment to Law No 32 / 2006 of 26 July extending the situation of post-mortem insemination, 231 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Seventh amendment to Law No. 32 / 2006 of 26 July, increasing from three to five cycles of second-line drug procreation treatments assisted, shared by the National Health Service, 237 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Alter the regime of assisted drug procreation, allowing post mortem insemination to perform a clearly established parental project ( seventh amendment to Law No 32 / 2006 of 26 July ), 247 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Guarantees access to the pregnancy of replacement, making the seventh amendment to Law No. 32 / 2006 of 26 July (protected drug procreation) and Draft Law No. 572 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Determines the circumstances in which post-mortem insemination is permitted and amends Law No 32 / 2006 of 26 July on assisted medicinal product procreation. of the fifth point is the assessment of the General State Account. of the following points are, without time for evaluation, the following diplomas: Bill No. 556 / XIV / 2. a ( PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PEV and PAN ) — First amendment to Law No 103 / 2019 of 6 September ; the Budget of the Assembly of the Republic for 2021 ; and Proposals for Resolution No 2 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Convention between the Portuguese Republic and the Republic of Kenya to Eliminate Double Tax Taxation on Income and Prevent Fraud and Tax Evasion, signed in Lisbon on 10 July 2018, 3 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Convention for the Creation of the Square Kilometer Array Observatory, signed in Rome, on 12 March 2019, 4 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Agreement between the Portuguese Republic and the Republic of Croatia on Defence Cooperation signed in Lisbon on 10 July 2019, 6 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Protocol to the Convention on Forced or Compulsory Work, 1930, adopted by the General Conference of the International Labour Organization at its 103. the session, held in Geneva on 11 June 2014, 11 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Agreement between the Portuguese Republic and the United States of America on Share of Lost or Equivalent Valued Goods signed in Lisbon on 17 December 2019, and 13 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Agreement on Air Transport between the Portuguese Republic and the Kingdom of the Netherlands on Curacao, signed in Lisbon on 25 June 2019. We shall also proceed to the vote on the Rules of Procedure. I draw attention to the fact that there are electronic votes that, given the situation we are going through, will have a specific procedure. I therefore draw the attention of the parliamentary groups to self-organize themselves so that the voting process can proceed in accordance with the scheme which has been distributed by all. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, good night to all. The session is closed. [[It was 18 hours and 11 minutes.]]
