ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, Mrs. Officers of authority. Let's start the plenary meeting. [[It was 15 hours and 4 minutes.]] Before we enter the first item on the agenda, on which there is the discussion of various bills on food waste, I ask the Secretary Maria da Luz Rosinha to give account of the file to the whole plenary.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u2	Good afternoon to all and to all. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I am going to announce that they have entered the Bureau and have been admitted, the following legislative initiatives: Bill No 567 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), which falls to 10. the Commission, and Draft Resolution Nos 717 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 718 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 719 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 720 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 721 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ), which drops to 8. the Commission, 722 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ), which drops to 8. the Commission, and 723 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP ), which falls to 9. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u3	Thank you very much, Secretary Maria da Luz Rosinha. We will then begin, at the first point of our order of business, which consists in the general assessment of Bill No. 487 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Approves the legal regime applicable to the donation of food for the purpose of social solidarity and measures to combat food waste, 537 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Consecrates measures to promote the flow of food goods from small agriculture and family farming and creates a simplified public regime for the acquisition and distribution of food goods from small and medium-sized national agriculture and livestock and family farming, combating food waste and 544 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP) — National survey on food waste in Portugal. To present the draft law of the NAP, you have the floor of Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Only during the first hour of our plenary meeting, about 115 kg of food will have been lost or wasted in our homes, markets and restaurants. It is precisely 115 kg per hour, in a country where 20% of the population is at risk of poverty, living with incomes less than €501 per month. In the Azores, for example, the poverty risk rate is 32 %, far above the national value of 21, 6 %. In a country where, if not the contribution of social transfers, 43, 4 % of the resident population would be at risk of poverty, where monetary income continues to be based on a strongly asymmetric distribution, from a social and regional point of view, where 33 % of the people live in aggregates without the ability to ensure immediate payment of a higher unexpected expenditure, except through loans, or where 19 % of the people do not have the financial capacity to maintain even adequately heated homes, this is clearly inconceivable. In the case of data that brings us entities such as FAO ( Food and Agriculture Organization ), it is estimated that one third of food in the world is lost or is wasted every year and that the impacts that this food waste has go far beyond social or environmental issues. In addition to this social impact that we have just mentioned, we cannot ignore the environmental impact resulting from food waste. Intensive food production also has an impact on the use of resources, because if food is lost or wasted, this implies misuse of its own resources and consequently negative environmental impacts. The overall carbon footprint resulting from food loss and waste, excluding emissions from land use change, today corresponds to about 7 % of the total greenhouse gas emissions. The use of surface and groundwater resources attributable to food loss or waste represents 6 % of the total water extracted and almost 30 % of the world's agricultural land is now used to produce food that is later lost or wasted. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, these are numbers that we cannot continue to be indifferent and indifferent! If it is true that, in Portugal, we have evolved in this area, already having a National Strategy for Combating Food Waste or municipal strategies, very as a result of the various non-governmental organizations and the volunteers who have developed partnerships in this regard, we are still far from ensuring that, at the end of this year, it will not go back to waste more than 1 million tons of food in perfect conditions to be consumed by those who need it most. Otherwise, it should also be noted that in 2019, in the year following an unprecedented health crisis, food distribution companies were responsible for giving about 16 000 tonnes of food products close to 1000 IPSS ( private institutions of social solidarity ). In the same year, food banks prevented nearly 18 000 tonnes of food from being wasted. The Zero Waste network has saved an average of 900 tons of food per year in the last five years, and even Re-food has been able to avoid the waste of about 5000 tons since 2011. We cannot ignore from a social point of view the impact this has in the context of a socio-economic crisis, because every two days, 11, 7 % of the European population, which corresponds to 7, 9 % of the Portuguese population, does not even have sufficient resources to allow them to eat a quality meal. We well know the effect that the health crisis has had on rising unemployment and the impact it will have on the population that was already in a state of poverty or material deprivation. In some countries that have already taken measures in this regard, about 100 000 tonnes of food per year are saved so that it can reach those who need it most. On 28 September, the NAP accompanied one of the Re-food routes in Lisbon and registered not only the goodwill and commitment of volunteer teams, but also the fact that the potential to collect is far from desirable. With this measure, we intend precisely to avoid any further embarrassment in the agri-food sector, so that there is no more waste and more food to be disposed of.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u5	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u6	I conclude now, Mr President. We are, in particular, open to work precisely on the proposal, accepting the different sensibilities in this area, in a fight that must be a desire of all political forces. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u7	In presenting the bill of the PCP Parliamentary Group, Mr João Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The levels of food waste currently occurring both in Portugal and in Europe are very worrying, and it is also worrying that the measures aimed at combating them have proved fruitless. We therefore have the responsibility to implement effective measures in combating food waste, beginning with identifying their causes and combating them. We understand that many do not want to do this exercise, because this would mean going to the root of the problem, to the so-called « markets », which is like saying « to the economic interests that guide production », that is to say, it is necessary to understand with what direction and with what objectives it takes in Portugal. It is necessary to understand whether farmers are producing food according to the country's needs or whether farmers are producing what the market says is profitable. It is necessary to understand whether the function of agriculture is to satisfy the food needs of the country or whether it is to satisfy the voracity of the agribusiness. We need to understand and question how millions of tons of food may be wasted and, at the same time, hunger increases. The truth, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, today in Portugal and Europe, while many find it difficult to make adequate food or even to feed themselves, there is a lot of production left on agricultural holdings without draining. However, there are those who understand that, with the reduction of food waste by 50 %, hunger will be reduced in the world. Mrs. Members, one thing is guaranteed: if nothing changes in current production models and if you continue to wager not in development, but in charity, then surely the problem of food waste will not be resolved and, on the contrary, it will worsen. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: For the CFP, discussing food waste and efficient food management refers us to the approach of production forms and productive sectors. We understand that family farming, small and medium-sized agriculture are those that use the most balanced form of resources, either through a wide diversification of crops, or because they produce locally what is consumed locally and almost always better quality products, beyond their population fixar potential.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u9	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u10	We believe that focusing on food supply to the populations in the services provided by the sector of the large distribution, by secondary and devaluing the importance of short circuits of proximity and the direct relationship between producers and consumers, only favours low production income, not competing for the application of fair prices to the consumer and leaving out of short circuits of marketing and flow the small and medium domestic producers. That is why the CFP presents here an initiative, like what it did at the last Legislative Session. It was on a proposal from the CFP that Law No 52 / 2020 of 25 August was achieved which promotes the disposal of fish from local and coastal fisheries and provides for the creation of a simplified scheme for the acquisition and supply of low-value fish in batch. Mrs. Members, if it is possible to create and approve this law here in the Assembly of the Republic, then we now propose the creation of a simplified public regime for the acquisition and distribution of food goods from small and medium-sized agriculture and national livestock, thus combating food waste. We understand that this is a response to the difficulty, added with the pandemic, of draining the food production of small and medium-sized domestic producers and, surely, of combating food waste. Combating food waste is promoting national food production, ensuring fair income for small and medium-sized farmers and farmers. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u11	Mrs Mariana Silva of the Greens now has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In Portugal there is neither strict nor approximate knowledge of the concrete reality of food waste in the various stages of the food chain. The study that exists, and that takes itself, as an estimate, resulted from the Project of Study and Reflection on Food Waste, published in 2012. The Greens Ecological Party has placed on the political agenda the problem of food waste, presenting a set of parliamentary initiatives that resulted in guidelines for the Government to comply, such as: promoting efficient food management to combat food waste; promoting public participation in the National Strategy and Action Plan for Combating Food Waste; and making a diagnosis of food waste. However, after five years on the Greens initiative, which resulted in the adoption of the first resolution of the Assembly on the subject, and after four years on the establishment of the National Committee on Combating Food Waste, there is still no diagnosis of its real dimension in Portugal. The first objective set for this committee was to diagnose, assess and monitor food waste at national level. Indeed, this is one of the tasks which the Greens consider urgent and has repeatedly insisted on with the Government. According to the Progress Report of the National Strategy and the Plan of Action for Combating Food Waste of December 2019, it is found that despite some initiatives taken by the National Institute of Statistics and the General Planning, Policies and Administration, it is still being heard about the possibility of obtaining data, considering that in general the contributions have been insufficient. This urgency arises from circumstances for which the ENP has been alerted. from an environmental point of view, it is painful that natural resources are scattered to produce food goods that then end up in the trash. The environmental impacts of the different phases of the food chain could be significantly reduced if high levels of waste were not found. from a social point of view, it is distressing that literally lie away a significant set of foods that could contribute to meeting basic food needs in a part of the population. The unfair distribution of wealth and impoverishment policies have an unacceptable impact on access to fundamental goods to meet the most basic needs of the population. As the ENP has pointed out, the first step needed to combat food losses is to be aware that the problem exists. The second step is to understand precisely what its size is and what its causes are. The Greens therefore propose, through the draft law that we are defending today, that a national survey be carried out on food waste, taking into account that food intended for human consumption is included here, which has ended up being unused, in quantity or in quality, and that these food losses occur at all stages of the food chain, in production, in processing, in storage, in packaging, in transport, in making available at the points of sale and, finally, in consumption. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the 2020 Nobel Peace Prize was awarded to the United Nations World Food Programme. Nothing more fair at a time when it has never been produced, so much capable of feeding all mankind, but when there are still millions of people going hungry; at a time when eating habits are imposed to guarantee the wealth of a few and forcing transport that implies, by itself, a brutal waste; at a time when, rather than betting on short production circuits, avoiding losses, local markets are cancelled for the benefit of large distribution chains, they themselves are sources of waste. Food waste is not a fatality. We don't resign in your fight. [[Congrats from the CFP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u13	Mr Catarina Rocha Ferreira, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have a debate on a subject that is very expensive not only to the PSD, but also to the parliamentary groups that have put forward initiatives, but in general to all Portuguese — food waste. Moreover, as already mentioned, the recent Nobel Peace Prize, attributed to the World Food Programme of the United Nations, was not mere coincidence. It is, yes, a relevant warning about world asymmetries in terms of access to food, which also applies in Portugal, with the aggravating pandemic. If there is value that is fundamental to the PSD, since its foundation, it is the dignity of the human condition. Therefore, despite differences with the initiatives under discussion, the truth is that this issue is timely and warrants a broad debate, in which the PSD believes it has an obligation to participate. Therefore, we have also presented a draft resolution on food waste, which, although not discussed here today, will be discussed in the field of specialty. I begin, of course, by highlighting some admiration. As incredible as it may seem, many of the arguments and motivations presented today are similar to those already presented, discussed and voted in 2015 and 2016. So we have to ask ourselves: how can this problem persist in similar terms over the past four years? Even because we're talking about something that is quite consensual among all the actors in society. This is an issue that has gained consistency in many private and even public initiatives, but, of course, this is not enough, much more commitment is needed on the part of the Government and a different stance is needed on the part of some parliamentary groups. Not at all, like the ladies and gentlemen. Members well know, it is not enough to guide speeches on the problem and the scourge that is food waste one day if, on the following day, these same parliamentary groups come to defend techniques and practices that destroy national production, or to propose initiatives that distance consumers from our traditional products, or even try to hinder the competitiveness of national agricultural productions. On the other hand, it is never too much to remember that we live in a country where 17 % of production is waste. This is a reality that we must reverse. We can even say that the issue of food waste is a paradox of modern times, because the higher the level of food quality and safety that is implemented in European food systems, the greater the level of waste and loss. Similarly, it should be noted that the more demanding the consumer is, the more likely there is to waste healthy food, often just because of a matter of appearance. See: it is because the image of a food does not meet certain marketing or marketing requirements. The image overlaps the food. Therefore, we understand the ENP as to the need for a national survey on food waste. We are surprised again with the Government: is it really necessary to approve a bill in this House for a national inquiry on this matter? In any case, if a national survey on food waste can only be made viable, it will not be the PSD to make the same impossible. in another respect, we argue that public policies should shape the reality of national agricultural production. However, we cannot agree with the CFP in two aspects: firstly, we do not understand the limitation to the Family Agriculture Statute — it is something, but, we agree, it is not enough at all — and secondly, it is unacceptable to have minimum prices laid down by the Government, as the CFP defends. Finally, with regard to the NAP initiative, we also believe that greater awareness-raising campaigns should be carried out at the level of consumption and at school communities. In fact, we also defend it in our draft resolution. In our view, however, these campaigns should be carried out in close collaboration with the Ministry of Agriculture to deepen knowledge of national agricultural production and advantages in local consumption without waste. On the other hand, we have reservations about the procedure and how the NAP prescribes the donations, because it seems to us that they complicate and harm more than they are solution. Are we gonna make it? Are we going to redecorate even more? Even food donations? This initiative is one more, like so many others in this area, very misleading. It looks like one thing, but it's going to happen and it's another. We even fear that its practical effect will be the opposite of what is intended. What is intended, and what all Portuguese are unanimous in, is that combating food waste is a priority in our country, involving all economic and political actors. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u15	Mr João Gonçalves Pereira, from the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u16	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by congratulating the parliamentary groups on the initiatives presented, in particular the NAP for bringing this same discussion. The issue of food waste is always important, because it concerns resources, which cannot be wasted. By analyzing the NAP bill, there are several themes that are positive: the issue of food waste prevention, the national targets for reducing food waste, food donations, the incentive system – and I would say that there should be more tax incentives for those who make donations –, the existence of municipal plans to combat food waste, which are important. I myself was the author of the first municipal plan to combat food waste in Lisbon, which I organized with the various entities to whom I call « living forces of the city» and which had a broad consensus in the chamber, unanimously. Therefore, it was three years of work dedicated to Lisbon in terms of combating food waste. in this work, which I developed with a taste, something I could retain was that self-regulation works. That is, supermarkets, hotels, restaurants are available to make donations and IPPS, parish boards, religious organizations go, many of them, collect these meals and then hand them over to those who need them the most. The system works. What is it that the NAP, in any way, in the one that is its intention, presents us, placing us the greatest reservations? [[Protests from PCP MP João Dias.]] Mr. João Dias is very upset and I still don't understand why. Mr President, this is an issue that must unite us all. Look, the CFP, in the City Hall of Lisbon, gave a good example: not only did it participate in the Municipal Commission Fight Food Waste, as it voted from its appointment to its final report. So I don't understand, sir, the parts you're trying to do, but very well. [[Protests from PCP MP João Dias.]] Now, I would like to say this: the NAP has been looking for the example of French legislation. And why have the French adopted this mandatory legislation? It is precisely because institutions, civil society, companies themselves did not have the availability that exists, for example, in Portugal. Therefore, the CDS believes that this requirement of legislation does not make sense when there is self-regulation and there are several stakeholders working on these matters. Mrs Inês de Sousa Real referred to Re-food, which I know very well, but there are many other entities that fight food waste in the city of Lisbon and this country outside. For example, I also met in the country in terms of combating food waste, interesting projects such as that of LIPOR ( Intermunicipalized Waste Management Service of Grande Porto ). Donors are not missing, Mrs. Member, they are not missing. With the tolerance of Mr. President, I would like to end by registering the recognition of the work that has been carried out by ASAE ( Food and Economic Security Authority ), a responsible work which did not close institutions, did not go after restaurants, did not go after hotels, nor at all, but always promoted them.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u17	I would ask you to finish, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u18	The United Nations and FAO themselves recognize that Portugal is an example of good practice.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u19	Thank you very much, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u20	So this is a subject that deserves consensus, it is neither right nor left, and it must unite us all.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u21	Mr. Deputy, you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u22	The appeal I make, Mr President, is that the NAP should bring down its proposal to the committee without a vote, so that, in particular, we can agree on a common text. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u23	Mr Ricardo Vicente of the Left Block Parliamentary Group now speaks for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u24	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: Today, we are debating concrete measures in the Assembly of the Republic to respond to food waste. But more than finding solutions to absorb the waste generated by the current food system, from production to consumption, what is really important is to debate the food system we want for the future. For the Left Block, this is the way of food sovereignty, which is built up with democracy and public policy that allows regulation of the production and market of food goods. At the entry of another Community framework, a strategy for the implementation of the Common Agricultural Policy in Portugal needs to be defined, and the country will have to take decisions which will have direct consequences on the levels of food waste and on the planning of the territory. We defend food sovereignty with priority for short circuits. We fight for systems for the production and processing of nearby foods, which guarantee the reduction of waste, the resilience of the territory and the mitigation of climate change. We propose diversified agriculture, with rotations and associations, and we cannot accept that agricultural policy is reduced to monoculture of olives, vineyards and red fruits destined for the export market, promoting the import of everything else. Resources are finite and therefore clear choices need to be made. In the debate, in particular, of the past State budget, the Left Block proposed the creation of a programme for the rehabilitation of markets and municipal fairs, with the minimum allocation of one third of the area for local producers, but the proposal was plunged with the votes against the CFP, the NAP and the PS. The Block also proposed the obligation of a diversified agriculture, with rotations and associations in all public irrigation investments. The proposal was plunged by PCP, PS and all right. Recently, we proposed the design of an ecological transition programme and the end of the public financing of intensive and superintensive agriculture. The proposal was plunged by PCP, PS and all right. We have proposed market regulation measures to end the abuse of large distribution, which sells expensive to consumers and pays poorly to producers. The proposal was cast with the votes against the PS, the CDS and the Liberal Initiative, while the PAN, the PSD and the Arrival « saw the band pass » with its abstention. The debate on food waste cannot turn away from these structural choices about the food system we want for the future. Today, we are submitting a new draft resolution, also on structural measures. In 2012 the food waste per person in the European Union was 173 kg per year, representing 20 % of the annual food production. Domestic consumption and processing accounted for 72 % of food waste. Thus, the proposals now presented by the Left Block have two more dimensions: the first is to strengthen the National Health Service to ensure access and strengthen nutrition consultations in all health centres, promoting healthy food and better food planning; the second is to conduct studies on the occurrence of waste throughout the chain and its potential for reuse and recovery, notably through the promotion of micro-industries of transformation, conservation and recovery of food that incorporate food waste.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u25	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u26	As for the projects under discussion today, they will count on the favourable votes of the Left Block, and the draft law of the NAP should be revised in a number of fields, in the field of expertise, in particular in the articles on fiscal policy. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u27	For an intervention, Mrs Clarisse Campos of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u28	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by welcoming the authors of the initiatives under discussion today, stressing the extreme importance of this issue, which brings us all together. Food waste has been periodically on the agenda of this Assembly of the Republic and, over the years, the Socialist Party has given evidence of recognition and action in this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u29	That's the one!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u30	It is a problem that has undeniable economic and social consequences as well as serious environmental effects. It is irrational that scarce and precious resources are being emptied, which destroy goods that, by remaining to one another, could be essential for the survival of others. It is not acceptable for it to be consumed irresponsiblely and to be produced without such benefit to anyone, when so many need and do not have. The pandemic brought to the issue of food waste an even greater urgency, since it represented an awareness of the effect of human action on natural resources and, at the same time, resulted in an increase in those seeking food support due to a decrease in their means of subsistence. It is in this sense that the Government has launched a series of initiatives which, across the ministries, aim to reduce the waste of food in line with guidelines from the European Parliament to the Member States. An example of this approach is the Innovation Agenda for Agriculture, which, together with the objectives of training and modernization of farmers, gives particular emphasis to the efficient and sustainable management of natural resources and ecosystems and the production of goods, processes and services through the enhancement of by-products, so that they are added value in order to enrich the production system. Another example is the distribution of national fish acquired in the lotas and delivered to poor families, contributing to a fresh and highly perishable product. I also highlight the Food campaign which is launched by the Ministry of Agriculture, and its digital platform, which enhances short circuits for the marketing and disposal of local products. The creation of the Safe Food Donation manual and the implementation of measure 8 — ‘Ensuring and encouraging the Food Donation Scheme’ were fundamental in this regard. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, even last month, on the same day that the International Day of Awareness on Food Losses and Waste was first marked, another movement was launched, United Against Waste, which, with the high patronage of Mr. President of the Republic and the institutional support of the Secretary-General of the United Nations (United Nations Organization ), brings together a relevant set of wills representative of the catering and hotel sectors, distribution, logistics and agriculture, as well as pioneering entities in this desire, and the National Committee on Combating Food Waste. All proposals can contribute to this fundamental cause, such as those now presented and under discussion, whether the proposal of the CFP, specific and focused on small agricultural production, aiming at the creation of a simplified scheme for the purchase and distribution of food from there, the proposal of the NAP, which is intended to deepen a legal regime for the donation of food goods for projects of social solidarity, or the draft law of the Ecological Party « Os Verdes », which calls for a national inquiry so that we all know, in depth and clearly, how, and how much we waste food in Portugal. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is a good wish that we are discussing this issue on the eve of World Food Day, which has been warning us for almost 40 years to all the problems of nutrition and the need to adapt what we produce to what we really need. There are many ideas, many paths and good results. Can you think it's enough? We all know that there is a long way to go, beginning with the awareness of everyone and each to the role that we can have in this goal, which is universal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u31	Mr Ventura, from arrive, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u32	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, we are dealing with a fundamental issue for our democracy and for our collective survival, especially in times of pandemic. But there are two notes that it is important to draw. For the Left Block, anyone who abstains « sees the band pass ». This, perhaps, justifies the votes in the Left Block in the last State budget and in the last budgetary documents. [[Protests of BE Members.]] For the Socialist Party, all themes are fundamental. From food waste to the railway, all that is brought to this Chamber is presented by the Socialist Party as fundamental, although, of course, after no progress, it is only fundamental in the matter of public discussion. [[Protests by PS MP João Azevedo Castro.]] Mrs. Members, 88 million tonnes is the value of the annual waste in the European Union — 88 million. Of this value, 5 % belong to retail and wholesale sectors. This is what we have to attack. Attacking the rest and confusing this with climate change and a series of media facts only serves one thing, so that we will not do anything in this matter at all. What we should be discussing today is what municipal cameras can do...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u33	You've outlived your time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u34	And I haven't said anything yet!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u35	I will finish, Mr. President. We should be discussing what municipal chambers can do in terms of waste, what autonomous regions can do, and not more so, an empty, theoretical discussion with the PS saying that it is very important, so that we remain absolutely in this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u36	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u37	That is what has happened and that is what will continue to happen.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u38	That was a waste!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u39	For a second intervention, Mr João Dias, of the CFP Parliamentary Group, has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u40	Mr President, in this short time remaining, let me just clarify a few questions raised by the PSD, for example the two questions relating to the minimum guaranteed prices. We do not understand how the PSD may be concerned about a platform that creates conditions for small and medium-sized farmers and livestock producers to have a guaranteed minimum price.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u41	It's nothing like that!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u42	Of course they can produce and sell more expensive. They are not priced, Mrs Deputy, they are minimum guaranteed prices, which provide them with income. But I give you a very simple example: it is the producers who feel in the skin that is selling potatoes, as happened this year, at 5, 6 and 8 cents is that they know how important it is to have a guaranteed minimum price to ensure their income. This is what you are in charge of, Your Honor! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u43	It's nothing like that!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u44	So you don't have to hide or whiten out the big problem. The problem of food waste is based on two questions: on the one hand, on the production and lack of flow of the same production and on the other, on the relationship between producers and large distribution. We cannot whiten the responsibility that, of course, each and every one of us has to combat food waste, but the large distribution, which, above all, wants economic profit, is very little concerned about food waste, is concerned about large incomes. That's why, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, I want to remind the PS of what we said on the rostrum. As we have done in the issues related to low-value fish in lota, we can also do so in relation to small and medium-sized agriculture and national livestock, creating conditions of understanding and resolving this situation once and for all. We have hundreds of canteens and public meals that can respond to this need for flow, even more aggravated by the situation of the pandemic. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u45	To close this debate, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u46	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, on this issue, I would like to mention again what we have just mentioned, that is, we are talking about 1 million tonnes that are wasted annually. If this number does not call us to look at the humanitarian charities of these measures, bearing in mind that we are also citizens, and that our fellow citizens are going through a rather complicated socio-economic situation, which lacks answers, more than we are raising some questions that are no longer political or ideological flags, rather than we are convinced that the matter of combating poverty and eradicating food waste must be transversal to all political forces, in fact, we will not be fulfilling our role. [[Protests by PSD Member Emilia Cerqueira.]] E, ladies and gentlemen. Members, particularly those of the PSD, which is the biggest party to the opposition and has a humanist charism in its foundation, in fact, to bring only a draft resolution, practically on the eve of this debate, and to make the criticisms that they made to the NAP proposal, do not seem to us to be a serious enough debate. Even because, Mrs Emília Cerqueira, you can't confuse things. Apart from this debate, we can of course debate agricultural production models, but that is not what we are talking about today. Apart from this debate, we can talk about sustainable and non-superintensive agricultural production models that degrade soils and question our diet as a collective future, but that is not what we are discussing. We are discussing, yes, food waste and that which must indeed be a fight against something that cannot continue to happen in this context. For this reason, and even because Portugal is not only Lisbon, there are models in the country that are quite positive and we will certainly count on the contribution of the CDS Member to improving this proposal as a specialist. But it is essential that this House finally say whether or not it is available to do so with concrete actions, without continuing to ignore the problem of the rows that increase at the door of the food banks against hunger and associations, because there are no goods to come.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u47	That's something else!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u48	I remember that, at the time of the pandemic and confinement, all of us here said that one of the concerns of closing schools was the children who had their only meal at their own school. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, if this matter is not seriously discussed, we will be failing as Parliament. on the part of the NAP, we will of course not resign ourselves from doing our part in this matter. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u49	We have thus reached the end of the first item on our agenda. We will therefore move to the second point, which consists of the assessment of the draft resolution No 638 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP) — Reversion of privatization of the CTT-Correios de Portugal, SA, together with in general the Bills Nos 517 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Establishs the CTT public control recovery regime and 520 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — Establishs the regime for the nationalization of TTCs and with draft resolution No 242 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government ensure a decisive participation of the State in the social capital of the CTT-Correios de Portugal, SA. Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor for one speech. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u50	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Despite the seriousness with which the matter has to be dealt with, the CTT process can very well be reported as one who tells a story. A story with a strange and painful episode for the Portuguese. An episode in which the public interest does not enter, not even as a secondary character, but which can still begin with the classic « was once». It was once a public company that provided a high-quality public service, in fact, recognized up to the international level, that respected its workers and that each year contributed important revenues to the state's coffers. And so it was for decades, until a PSD and CDS government decided in 2014 to deliver this important company to the private sector, selling in exchange the 31, 5 % that the State held, still above the balance price. However, this decision, as we all already know, has very negative consequences for both the State and the people and the CTT workers themselves. In fact, with the decision to privatize CTTs, the PSD and the CDS have deprived the State of important revenues, so necessary to respond to social policies. at the end of these years, the state has already lost hundreds of millions of euros in dividends and the country has no longer had a public, reliable and safe mail service. The truth is that, six years after privatization, today it is perfectly notorious for the growing degradation of mail services. Hundreds of stations and post stations were closed, the buildings were sold, workers were fired, the precarious links increased and increased the paths of each turn of distribution, as well as waiting times for service. There is a lack of money available at the stations for the payment of pensions and other social benefits, there are unacceptable delays in the delivery of postal vouchers, and the situations in which the mail is no longer distributed daily have become general. Meanwhile, shareholders continue to take over, in the form of dividends, all profits generated by the company and even afford to distribute dividends above profits, completely decapitalizing the TTCs. Only between 2013 and 2016, more than 270 million euros were distributed in dividends, about a third of the total privatisation revenue. In 2017, TTCs showed profits of EUR 27, 3 million, but distributed dividends of EUR 57 million. Think about it! To all this, the fact that the CTT Bank has been implemented on the structure of mail stations, operating in the premises and with the mail workers, which are diverted from the desks of the postal services to the counters of the service of the Bank, which increases the waiting lines in postal service. Definitely, the Administration sends the postal service to a second or third plane, which is now of interest only, and only, the CTT Bank. In short, privatization brought less quality, fewer mail stations, less distribution, less revenues for the state, fraud of heritage and workers saw their working conditions suffer a substantial backwardness. To all this it is still necessary to add the increase in tariffs, which since privatisation have already increased more than 50 %. That is, at the moment, and as a result of privatization, citizens pay more and the offer of service is less. In view of this scenario, it is time not to rethink the concession contract—in fact, it is unheard of—because this would not strictly resolve anything, but the property of the TTCs itself. For all this, the Greens are proposing to change the direction of this story, bringing the TTCs back to the public sphere. This is exactly what is intended with this legislative initiative: to restore public interest as the protagonist of a long history that would dispense the sad episode of privatization. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u51	To present the PCP bill, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u52	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The private interests that control the TTCs today continue to live above our possibilities. The postal service continues to deteriorate at an unsustainable level for the country as a whole — users and populations, companies and public services — and, of course, for the workers of the company, who are the first to suffer from the ruinous options that private management is imposing on TTCs. Yesterday, we denounced the inhuman working conditions and the unacceptable overload in which postal workers are systematically found and pointed to the evidence of the privatisation of TTCs, not only with the delivery of the company to the private, but, of course, with all the degradation that successive governments and administrations have prepared for years. The situation at which we arrived in the postal service reaches unparalleled proportions in the dismantling of the public service, in the destruction of jobs, in the closure of services. With the end of the concession approaching, and in the face of growing popular discontent, the CTT Administration felt the need to set up a propaganda operation, seeking to hide the reality behind a smoking curtain. On the one hand, it stopped the closure process — and even invested it on time, reopening some of the 33 stations which had committed themselves, in the Assembly of the Republic, to reopen, i.e. about 10 % of the stations closed with the privatisation process — but on the other hand, under the cover of a supposed plan of modernization and investment, has been adding several postal distribution centres (CDP). There are already several city halls that have left or will no longer have a CDP itself, making the mail distributed from locations located in many cases more than 30 km. As has been reported by the representative organisations of workers, hundreds of thousands of correspondences are accumulated at the treatment plants and at the CDPs. Last year, TTCs dropped to 23 of the 24 quality indicators. In order to give an idea, TTCs were unable to guarantee the delivery of 90 % of normal mail within three days of their acceptance, when, at the time of privatization, a large part of this mail was delivered on the day following its entry into the TTCs.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u53	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u54	In the current year, the situation is even worse and the blame is not just for the pandemic. Since privatization, private administration has initiated a process of decapitalization and reduction of value of TTCs, through aggressive distribution of dividends above profits, sale of assets and acquisitions of more than dubious transparency and usefulness. To continue this way, the State is at risk of seeing a company destroyed by a hundred years and of reference and subject to blackmail by its private owners, requiring compensation or other counterparties to ensure the provision of the universal postal service. The costs that the country is facing, which are at risk of increasing with this privatisation, make it imperative and urgent for the State to re-acquire the capacity and responsibility for the management of the company, to ensure its future viability and to be able again to provide a service that the country, the populations and its workers require. The recovery of public control of TTCs is an objective whose implementation should involve the weighting of various options, ranging from nationalisation, through acquisition, to negotiation with TTC shareholders and other forms that can ensure it. An option which can be implemented in good time for the defence of national interests. When the government lets the time pass and the problem gets worse, when the PS hands to the right all together to ensure the protection of the private management and the interests it represents, it must be said enough! » and respond to the demands and struggles of the workers, who once again, today, meet with this House to make their voices heard and from here we greet. It is time to move from words to acts, to defend the CTTs and the national interest! [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u55	To present the bill of the Left Block, Mrs. Isabel Pires has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u56	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members and Members of Parliament : The year 2020 marks the celebration of the 500 years of the TCCs. They are five centuries from one of the most recognized public companies in the country. Its capilarity in the territory and its characteristics have allowed, over such a long time, to create a unique network of provision of a universal postal service, which, in so many locations in our country, is the only point of contact with public services or with the State. Until 2012, TTCs were a public company providing a universal service, with high levels of quality and representing an element of territorial cohesion. Between 2005 and 2012, mails made more than EUR 500 million of profit for the State, which was considered one of the five best postal services in Europe. But, in 2013 - 2014, PSD and CDS decided to sell the company at a balance price, starting there problems that need urgent resolution. With privatization, Portugal joined a tiny set of four countries with the totally private postal system. This is still a profound mistake today. In five years, postal service worsened radically. this year, 2020, private management has led to all quality indicators. Until November 2018, 69 mail stations have been closed and, according to ANACOM ( National Communications Authority ), 33 are the municipalities that no longer have stations, and this number is expected to rise to 48, which means that almost 500 000 inhabitants will be without a post station. at the same time, everything points out that stations that will be kept open are only those that include the CTT Bank. And in this way a private commercial bank was made in post office facilities, with postal workers, with operating costs paid by CTT, in an unheard process of vampireization, which still continues today: the postal service continues to keep the bank, without any justification for this to happen. Moreover, the solution that has been pointed out in the last year is the use of parish boards for the provision of postal services. This option raises many questions. First of all, how do TTCs sign an agreement with ANAFRE ( National Frequencies Association ) in September 2020, when the concession contract ends in December 2020? How are the privacy standards of citizens guaranteed? Why are the CTTs being financed, now private, with public money, when the CTTs should be public and serving this universal postal service, which today they do not comply with? These options are not understood when what people need is the reopening of stations. On the other hand, the way in which private management has penalized thousands of workers is significant, as, yesterday, we had the opportunity to see: lack of staff, lack of working conditions, attempt to implement measures such as the card-refeiting unilaterally, dismissal of precariouss. The best CTTs have are their workers and they have been suffocated since their privatization, even though dividends are distributed above profits. Moreover, we should talk about the current management options of the private administration, which has changed mail distribution priorities, with clear damage to populations and unacceptable delays in the delivery of correspondence, the sale of property to waste or the concentration of distribution centres, closing many others. These are just a few examples that everything is wrong with the private management of TTCs. PS and PSD decided to destroy a public company of excellence, which would profit the State by a political choice with public losses, with losses to the workers, with losses to the populations. One of the most important contact networks for thousands of Portuguese and Portuguese has been destroyed, wealth, knowledge and good public service have been destroyed, just to give more dividends to the private. For nothing more than this. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Left Block brings back the debate on its proposal for nationalization of TTCs, and it is not because of theimosia or ideological bias, as some fear to believe in this debate. Don't! Let's go back to this proposal, ladies and gentlemen. Members, because today there is virtually no one who can defend the private management of the CTTs with a serious face in this House, it is impossible. And this has had consequences for the country as a whole. To decide the nationalization of TTCs is the only way to, under current conditions, it is still possible to restore to the State the ownership and management of the universal public service of the postal services, ensuring this service to all and to all, as well as ensuring the safeguarding of the heritage of TTCs and the improvement of working conditions. I will finish, Mr President, by saying that if a company like CTT reaches 500 years of age, it is because it is really important for the country. Let us not waste the opportunity to bring back to the state the management of this company, for the benefit of its workers, which today are concentrated with this House and which we greet, and of the entire Portuguese population. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u57	To present the draft resolution of the NAP, you have the floor of Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u58	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: during this month we celebrate the 500 years of mail in Portugal, but the reasons for celebrating are very few, because today the TTCs are a shadow of what they have already been. This is due to the ideological experimentalism of PSD and CDS-PP, which in 2014 fully privatized the company in an absolutely unnecessary operation since the 5 billion euros required by the troika in privatization had already been achieved. Moreover, thanks to the audit of the IGF ( General Inspection of Finance ), we also learned that this assessment of the company at the time of privatisation was made below the net value that was finally obtained at the end of the entire process, that the State, before the privatisation of the CTTs, abdicated more than 12 million euros from the capital reduction, which eventually reverted to the private ones; and that the reversal to the public sphere of the real estate and furniture of the CTTs is not even preserved if the concession is granted to the other private ones. All of this well demonstrates the almost usurary way in which this whole process has been conducted, as well as alerting us to the need to try to reverse it, for the sake of the public interest. More: We also know that between 2013 and 2017, it was the profit margins of the universal postal service that compensated for the loss of the other activities carried out by the company. This means that, in these years, the bulk of the company's revenue has not only resulted from the concession contract, but also served to finance the erratic options of private management. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, public money should be used to finance what is contractualized and not to finance the advances of private management. Today, we know that the quality standards required in the satisfaction of the universal postal service show a degradation of the quality of postal service after 2013, more marked in 2016 and 2017. We also know that 2019 was one of the worst years, in terms of performance in fulfilling the service quality index, of the last 29 years. In 2020, with the already known data, it is estimated that the situation will be even worse. The existing degradation of services in TTCs is due to much more than to the closure of the stations, which, in this case, is only the tip of the iceberg. It is also due to an equity structure based on financial investors more interested in the rapid return than on the viability of the company itself; it is also due to a search for the maximization of profits by the private, through the sale of real estate, the secondaryization of postal distribution services — due to the betting on the CTT Bank and the commercial aspect of the TTCs — and to an investment policy paid by bank loans; and it is due, finally, to the sudden reduction in the number of workers, and only at the beginning of this year, the company lost 4, 3 % of the employees hired effective or the term, including an increase in costs due to the expiry of the company's agreements. Let us refer again, ladies and gentlemen. Members, that TTCs are not any private, are a strategic enterprise for the country and an instrument of territorial cohesion, being often the last reduction of public service in the interior. CTTs have the potential to be a profitable company and are the fourth largest employer at national level, with 12 000 workers, so the country cannot afford to lose all this know-how. Total privatization failed. Parliament cannot continue with cross arms to see the CTTs die and the Government cannot, at the very short time of the end of the concession, continue to clarify which model of granting the universal postal service to be implemented from 2021 onwards. For this reason, the NAP brings the debate an initiative that aims to ensure that, in the context of the process of analysis and choice of the model of granting the universal postal service to be implemented from 2021 onwards, the Government ensures a decisive participation of the State in the social capital of the TTCs in order to ensure management that ensures the quality of the service and the safeguarding of the interest of the citizens. However, we must not fail to appeal, in particular to the ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Socialist Party, voting in favour of the NAP initiative, calling for them to remember the one who was your position in 2014. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u59	You have the floor, for an intervention by the Liberal Initiative, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u60	Mr President, here we are once again discussing the reversal of the privatization of TTCs, which is an euphemism for nationalization of TTCs. Communists do not use the word 'nationalization' because they know that there are still many people who remember the disaster that was the economy when it was all nationalized. But it's not just stubbornness or insistence, it's also myopia. The extreme left has not yet realized or seen that, after five years of insistence, nationalization did not occur because even the PS knows it is a bad idea. In fact, this insistence can only be motivated by ideological dogmatism, because, in fact, the complaints from the extreme left are not well understood. Was there a station closure? Before privatization there were more. Was there a reduction in staff? Before privatization there were more. Was there a lack of investment? Before privatization there were more. Was there a breach of service levels? Before privatization too, although at the time they were much less demanding. The truth is, if the CTTs were from the state, things would be worse and they would be a money rush from the Portuguese, as is already being the TAP. [[Protests by the Member of the BE Isabel Pires.]] The excellence of the state as manager is clearly evident in the Hospital de Braga, which in one year, since they ended with PPP (public-private partnership), will spend more 30 and such million euros—values before COVID costs—without a single user being more satisfied. In the midst of this huge social and economic crisis, it is necessary to want to spend hundreds of millions of euros from the Portuguese to play with the wallets, after hundreds spent to play with the planes. [[PCP protests.]] My last word is of recognition and I address it to the workers of the CTTs, who are the main ones who are affected by this annual insistence of the extreme left to discuss this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u61	There's been a landslide! Liberals have no limits.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u62	I could study a little!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u63	For an intervention on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sofia Matos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u64	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD first records that The Greens, the PCP and the Left Block, for example the previous Legislative Session and previous Legislations in identical molds, presented initiatives on the control of the capital of TTCs by the State. We also welcome the NAP initiative that has now decided to join another cause. unlike other parties, we are not hostage to dogmas or extremist ideologies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u65	We've noticed!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u66	The PSD is, as always, available to discuss this and other matters with the responsibility that is characteristic to us, especially when Portugal needs us most. On this subject, there is a history that must be invoked and there is also a context that we need to make. With regard to history, it should be recalled that the PSD/CDS Government has privatized TTCs in compliance with the Economic and Financial Assistance Programme,... [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u67	... together with the troika, Program this signed in May 2011 by the Socialist Party, which systematically denies this reality. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[Risos from PS André Pinotes Batista.]] The honourable Member laughed today, but the Portuguese did not want to laugh in 2011. [[PSD applause.]] It should be remembered that, with the privatisation of TTCs, the State raised EUR 900 million. It was not at the balance price Mrs.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u68	Go, go!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u69	The decision of the PSD Government / CDS to privatize the CTT was not a mere whim...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u70	Go, go!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u71	...and it wasn't even evil or to punish the Portuguese, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, as they insist on making us believe. It was to honour the commitments made, not by us, but by those who in 2011 brought the country to bankruptcy, especially the Government of the Socialist Party. [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]] After this history, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, we have to make a context. The company CTT, S.A. is the concessionaire of the provision of the universal postal service by the end of 2020. It is then up to the Government to define the universal postal service and its concession after the evaluation of ANACOM, as we all know. The Prime Minister has already said, in response to the CFP in this same House, that he will take a position on whether or not to continue the universal postal service. The contract concluded with the TTCs ends, as we all know, on 31 December of this year, with the new terms of the concession to be discussed a few months ago. We know that the government will take a position following the outcome of the public consultations and proposals put forward by the regulator. More than any other political force, the PSD expects the regulator to exercise its duty and duties in good sense and rigorously, always in view of the national public interest. In December, the granting of and, taking into account the regulatory report and the decision of the Government, the PSD will be here again, as it has always been, in the defence of Portugal and the Portuguese. [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u72	For an intervention, Mr André Ventura, of the Arrival, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u73	Mr. President, we have nothing new here today. As the concession ends in December, the Left Block and the PCP join again to press the PS and the Socialist Government to do the same forever. The truth, as much as it costs you, is this: the number of redundancies in TTCs has decreased with private management. More: CTTs are going to increase the number of employees by 800 this year — I repeat, 800! — in an investment of more than EUR 41 million made this year by such private management of TTCs. [[Protests by the Member of the BE Isabel Pires.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u74	Look at the spokesman of the capital!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u75	Such motor fleets, which CTTs did not have as PCP, PS and Left Block destroyed the postal public service, will now be renewed in 849 vehicles purchased to better serve the Portuguese. [[Protests from PS André Pinotes Batista.]] That's the truth. There is no service improvement that PCP, Left Block and PS want to bring. They want to destroy the service, because it is no longer as public as they liked and because before it was less private, as they liked, it served the Portuguese worse. I would like you to say this to the Portuguese: at a time when there is no money to save companies, there is no money to pay layoffs to the workers and there is no money to update pensions above €645, they want to spend €900 million again to statify the CTTs.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u76	Mr President, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u77	I'd like you to say that out there, to whom you didn't see your pension or your salary updated and to whom you didn't see your layoff paid.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u78	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u79	That is what they should do when they come here to say to spend over 900 million euros making public companies that are working well. [[Protests of BE, PCP and PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u80	Mr Hugo Carvalho of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u81	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: TTCs were a structural company in the connection between the State, the Portuguese and the territory. The TTCs were a trusted company for the Portuguese, for the quality of the services provided and for their reliability of their response.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u82	Why did you want to privatize?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u83	The TTCs were a public element of proximity in all the municipalities of the country, in several locations. The CTTs were a partner throughout the history of our country, but today they are not exactly what they were.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u84	And it's from there? Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u85	And they are not only because the postal service has changed or because in recent years the volume of postal traffic has fallen sharply, but also because of the way in which the privatisation of this company has been carried out and the concession contract in force has been accepted. Today, who has subscribed to this solution, who has opted for privatization, certainly knows that he has not done a good service to the Portuguese people. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD, CDS-PP and CH protests.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, be calm because you're gonna have to hear the whole truth. [[PSD, CDS-PP and CH protests.]] You're gonna have to hear the whole truth, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, take it easy. It is good that in this debate all those present know and are aware that the political decisions taken in 2014 by the PSD/CDS government — which blindly attributed everything to a private company without safeguarding the public interest and without guaranteeing postal service in all the municipalities of the territory — are responsible for the lack of quality of the postal service of the TTCs. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD, CDS-PP and CH protests.]] Mrs. Sofia Matos, it's no use getting here and saying that this was in the Memorandum of Understanding, because this privatization was done in terms, molds and conditions under which the PSD dreamed and the PSD wanted to do. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD, CDS-PP and CH protests.]] Madam Member, let me tell you that in all the interventions on TTCs in this Chamber, the PSD loses an opportunity to apologize to the Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u86	What a sadness!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u87	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the truth is that today, for the Portuguese, it is more important to talk about the future and there are many points to improve in the provision of postal service in Portugal. First, the territorial network needs to be extended and improved. We cannot imagine that in the same country there are citizens who have a position of the TTCs in their council while in another council there are citizens who do not have that service at their disposal. There is no reduction in demand to justify this injustice between Portuguese and, therefore, this is one of the points in which we will not abdicate to correct what the PSD dreamed of in privatization. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In order to ensure this territorial redistribution, we must also reject the following myth that the Liberal Initiative and Mr. André Ventura, of the Czech Republic, wanted to transmit: reorganize and return a company is not to close services and fire workers, it is to take advantage of opportunities and improve, both in electronic commerce and in the commission service, in order to continue to a company that is absolutely strategic and decisive for Portuguese. [[CH Member's Protests André Ventura.]] Dear Members, at the end of this year, the concession contract with the CTT service provider is concluded, an opportunity, par excellence, to correct some aspects that have been identified today. We must debate everything, without taboos, without excluding the entry of the State into the capital of the company, if this is necessary to safeguard that there is no distribution of dividends above profits when there is a disinvestment in the service provided, if this is necessary to have a balanced and fair presence of TTCs throughout the national territory, if this is necessary to increase the quality of the service or if it is necessary to defend the best interests of all Portuguese. It is with this mandate that we trust the negotiation between the Government and the postal service provider to ensure that at the beginning of 2021 we can have a new contract that returns to the TTCs the central role they have always played in the lives of the Portuguese people. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u88	I remember the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen who have to leave a chair free between each other. So there can't be three ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen together.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u89	Got to get a helmet for the CDS!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u90	A madman!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u91	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u92	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u93	Mr. President, it is just to clarify Mr. João Ferreira...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u94	No, no. For that you have no word at this time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u95	If you want to talk to João Ferreira you'll have to call him!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u96	Mr. President, I'm sorry, but...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u97	You can't speak right now. You're not registered.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u98	Mr President, but it is an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u99	An appeal to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u100	Yes, Mr President, on the conduct of the work.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u101	Why?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u102	Mr. President, other Mrs. Members on the other side of the bench are permanently... [[PCP protests.]] Do you want to talk low or not?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u103	Put on the mask!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u104	Mr President, we are in the middle of a debate that has nothing to do with your speech, but please.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u105	Mr. President, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo and I have a permanent indication that we have to wear a mask...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u106	Mr President, we are not discussing the use of the mask, this is something that we will discuss, perhaps necessarily at another time at the Conference of Leaders,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u107	It is only so that whenever the two Members speak, they do not have to be called to attention for the use of the mask.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u108	... because my opinion is that it was not decided at the Conference of Leaders that one could only be without mask in the front row, at the Bureau, at the rostrum of the speakers or at the government bench. Therefore, if one day I decide to do so at the Leaders Conference, I will apply it. As long as this is not decided, I don't apply. [[PSD and CH applause.]] Mr João Gonçalves Pereira, from the CDS-PP, has the floor for one speech. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u109	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we are discussing the TTCs and talking about TTCs means talking about their main activity, the postal service. However, this postal service has been broken not only in Portugal as in the whole world but in particular in Portugal from about 6 % to 7 % a year. In other words, today's reality, which we have heard here, particularly by the parties on the left, is not compatible with what was in the past and the state, even though it is not a shareholder of this company, ends up being in this company and makes a big contribution to it, because the biggest client of the CTTs is precisely the State itself, which, of course, has an important role in the operation and profitability of the CTTs. But what is certain is that postal service has been broken, in successive breaks. And I must tell you, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I will not enter the privatisation speech, because there seems to be no memory. We have already realized that for the parties on the left all the evils that exist in the country here 10, 15, 20, 30, 40 years will have been responsible for what was a right government PSD / CDS, Steps Coelho / Paulo Portas. We know that. The PS even forgets that he put the country in bankruptcy, brought the troika, signed the Memorandum, signed the privatization of TTCs, forget all about it! [[PS and BE protests.]] That is the responsibility of all times, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, we already know that. But there's one thing we don't have: the CDS doesn't have prejudices about public management...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u110	Don't you? Oh, my God! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u111	No, you don't. You don't, Mrs. Deputy! There is good public management as there is good private management; there is good private management as there is good public management. There are no such prejudices, but one thing we know: privatization is not synonymous with solving all problems. We know that, we know that, and we can even admit that there may be some management options that are not the right ones — we can admit that, whether in the CTT or in any other company.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u112	It deserves the Nobel Prize in Euphemism 2020! [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u113	Take it easy, they're very nervous! I know, they get really nervous when you tell the truth! When you have to hear the truth, you guys get nervous. They deal badly with the truth, it's a problem of the Socialist Party! In fact, the intervention we heard was a lot in this sense: he forgot, he forgot the Memorandum, he forgot what he had signed!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u114	Sir, you have to conclude, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u115	But the question is this: we are on the eve of a concession contract that is under negotiation. And of two, one : either the concession contract is being fulfilled or it is not being fulfilled. We have a regulator, ANACOM, we have the government and, therefore, these have to exercise their powers of supervision and, of course, ensure that this same concession contract is fulfilled.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u116	For an intervention by the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Jorge Mendes has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u117	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In 10 months we had 10 legislative initiatives in this House, nine concerning the nationalisation or control of the public capital of the TTCs and one concerning the quality of the service. In all these initiatives, the left political forces, motivated by ideological issues, invoke service quality problems, poor postal coverage, network density and minimum services, the decapitalization of TTCs, which the public postal service leverages the results of the TTC Bank, which TTCs have reduced the staff framework and increased the precariousness,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u118	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u119	... arguments largely denied by the IGF audit, independent auditors and TTC reports and accounts themselves. Dear Members, during the various debates we also realize that what is involved in the proposals under discussion is not the quality of the postal service but, yes, dogmatic options of the radical left parties.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u120	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u121	While the parties of the united Left were digladicating themselves to present legislative initiatives to mark their political agenda and to condition that of the other parties, Portugal faces an endless pandemic crisis, Portugal faces an economic crisis growing, in Portugal emerges a social crisis of unpredictable consequences and even political, and today, October 15, when Portugal again enters confinement, what is the solution presented by the PCP, the Left Block, the ENP and the PAN for the problems of the Portuguese? A miraculous solution: CTTs are nationalized, as we have done with TAP! And the Socialist Party, who wants to pass immune to this debate, continues to deny its responsibilities in the process of privatization that it signed with the troika in the Memorandum of Understanding and that the Democratic Social Party and the CDS had to honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u122	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u123	The Socialist Party assists this whole theatre, these scenes, because it is good for it, especially in the context of its negotiations, its wraths, its zigzags around the State Budget for 2021. Therefore, it is time for the PS to assume its responsibilities and, at once, end with the gonzalous deviations of its most radical left.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u124	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u125	By coincidence, on 25 November we shall vote on the State budget for 2021.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u126	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u127	We hope that this coincidence will be enough for the government to think more about the country and less about ideology. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u128	You have the floor for an intervention by the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr Bruno Dias. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u129	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At the end of this debate the indisputable issue that arises must be answered by the Socialist Party. How does the PS justify handing over the PSD, the CDS, the Liberal Initiative and the Arrival to keep CTTs in private management? How do they explain this convergence to CTT workers and people who have life in hell? We are not surprised by the contempt for the lives of people or even the ignorance of the spokespersons of the Champalimaud Group, or of the GreenWood Builders Fund I or of the Norges Bank in this debate. We're not surprised. What is serious is that your answer to those who speak that way, as we have just heard, is that convergence to leave everything in the same way. The spokespersons of the Champalimaud Group no longer surprise us, but what we need to ask is how long you will let the ashes be discussed for a day. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u130	Previously on Champalimaud than the Communist Party!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u131	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u132	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u133	Mr President, I would like to take the floor to make an appeal to the Bureau. It is to inform that we will bring to the Bureau a document that gives by the name of the Economic and Financial Assistance Programme, signed by the Socialist Party,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u134	Mr. Member, the Bureau knows, but please deliver. This is an intervention, it is not an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u135	... where the privatisations are and where the CTTs are. Mr. Deputy has a short memory. You have a short memory! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[Protests by PS MP João Paulo Correia.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u136	To close this debate, Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u137	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At the end of this debate I would like to refer to what was said by Mrs Sofia Matos, but also by Mr Jorge Mendes. Mr. Jorge Mendes said that "we had to honour the commitments", so the PSD was opposed. Mrs Sofia Matos said that they are not dogmatic hostages and that it was not the PSD/CDS government that privatized the CTTs, it was the troika. You said you were forced to do that. All right, let's admit until we did. But what leads the PSD not to correct now this mistake that was taken by the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen, what do you say was a mistake, that they were upset and forced to privatize the CTTs? What leads them to prevent this reversal from taking place now? Oh, my God! That's what we don't understand! Is she still the troika? [[PSD Member Protest Sofia Matos.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u138	It's the interests of the custom!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u139	Mr. Jorge Mendes spoke here about the IGF audit and also good, because this audit showed three things. First, that the public service feeds or fatens the gains of CTTs.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u140	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u141	Second, that the legislative amendment promoted by the PSD/CDS Government in 2012 has raised the doubt about the ownership of the concession goods after the end of the contract. Finally, that in the privatisation process the public interest was not entirely guarded. But these conclusions, in fact, only one thing is new, because we all knew that the public interest was neither taken nor found in this process, as we knew that the public service was fattening the profits of the TTCs. What we did not know was how consciously or unconsciously the PSD/CDS government eventually attributed to the private. Legal incognitions or uncertainties about the ownership of the concession goods that form part of the postal network after the contract has been concluded, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen? Oh, my God! [[Rice from PCP MP Bruno Dias.]] To guarantee this private company the possibility of remaining in the monopoly, which is not only natural because, in this case, it was built by the PSD and the CDS, is absolutely strange in a rule of law. Allowing at the end of a contract the free and automatic reversal of public network goods to the State is not an acquired data is absolutely unacceptable and of a completely condemnable irresponsibility.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u142	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u143	Here, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the PSD, it does not help to blame the troika because what you say about the IGF audit, as you mentioned recently, is that the PSD and the CDS were very bad in this process. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u144	Mrs. Members, let us move to the third point of our agenda today, the discussion of draft resolution No 572 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends to the Government a mobilising initiative for interinstitutional debate and wider public hearing on the implementation of the European Union Recovery Plan ( Next Generation EU ), the Partnership Agreement and the Strategic Plan of the CAP ( PEPAC) 2021 - 2027, within the framework of the consequences of the COVID-19. To present this draft resolution, Mr Nuno Fazenda of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u145	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The country has facts and objective data that demonstrate the very positive impact of Community funds in Portugal and the improvement of the quality of life of Portuguese. And the management and implementation of Community funds has been recognised by the European institutions, in particular by the European Commission itself. However, bearing in mind that we can always do more and more better and that the high volume of financial resources determines an increased responsibility, it is essential that we deepen the debate, to have even more transparency, greater public scrutiny and even better decisions in the application of the European funds in Portugal. The Government has been discussing with civil society the main priorities for the country through the public discussion of several strategic documents such as the Agendas of Portugal 2030, the National Investment Plan or the Strategic Vision for the Recovery Plan. These are documents which have been discussed and which support the overall strategy for the implementation of the Community funds. But one thing is the planning of the strategic vision, the debate on the broad lines — which has been carried out in various contexts, including in the Assembly of the Republic — another is the programming, territorialization of investments and its regulation. It is this debate on the programming and implementation of the funds that must be continued and deepened. This is a challenge that calls on everyone, who does not dispense with anyone, and where territories have a key role. So now is the time to move from vision to action. Portugal will have three fundamental instruments available in the Community funds. One concerns the Partnership Agreement, which corresponds to Portugal 2030. The debate on this important and bulkier financial instrument was held at a time pre-COVID. It is now necessary to update its final version in the light of the consequences of COVID-19 and the regulations that the European Commission is still developing. It is still an open document and therefore has every opportunity to deepen the debate on Portugal 2030, particularly in the regions. A second instrument consists of the Strategic Plan of the Common Agricultural Policy. For the first time, Portugal, like other Member States, will have the opportunity to draw up its strategic plan for the implementation of the CAP ( common agricultural policy ) in Portugal. It is a plan with around EUR 9 billion for support for agriculture and rural development. On this instrument, the CAP regulations are still at the level of the discussion between the Council and the European Commission, and they have not even reached the European Parliament. The new CAP is expected to be adopted from 2022 or 2023, which means that although there has already been interaction with agricultural actors, in this case there is also every opportunity for an in-depth debate on this strategic document which is very important for agricultural policy in Portugal. Finally, Portugal will have at its disposal the Recovery and Resilience Plan. Today, as you know, a first draft of this plan has been handed over by the Government to the European Commission. This is the first version of the first version, which will have to evolve on the basis of an internal dialogue and with the European Commission, and the final version will have to be delivered by the end of April next year. It is therefore not a closed document, either in substance or in time. In short, given that planning is a continuous process, that none of the Community financing instruments is closed, that the regulation of the European Commission is about to conclude, conditioning the closure of any final version of the financing instruments, and that the application of the funds requires an exercise of programming and territorialization of investments which is still important to debate and implement, it is in this context that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group proposes to this House a draft resolution which recommends to the Government an in-depth debate on the application of the European funds in Portugal. It proposes the auscultation of the territories, in particular in the regional councils of the CCDRs (regional coordination and development committee), where they have seats representative entities of the interests of the regions, in the bodies of the inter-municipal entities, in particular the CIMs (inter-municipal community) and the Metropolitan Areas of Lisbon and Porto, and also a greater involvement of civil society in this debate. The public debate on European funds is a challenge which calls for all, on a continuous basis, that does not exempt anyone or that no one should be exempt from doing so. That is also what is being discussed in this House today. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u146	Mr Nelson Silva, from the Parliamentary Group of the NAP, now has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u147	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With this draft resolution, the PS proposes the auscultation of municipalities, associations and civil society, for the terms of the process of economic and social recovery. unlike others, this is an initiative that aims to increase democracy and transparency for the construction of the future of Portugal and will therefore have our support. What we hope is that those involved will not just be heard. What we want is for your contributions to be effectively incorporated into the recovery plan. However, we have some reservations regarding the opening of the Government for the effective incorporation of these contributions, since it has refused to comply with the legal provisions of the State budget, which are legitimately approved in this Parliament, as is the case with the suspension of the circular line of the Lisbon subway, which will be highly harmful to the State and, no doubt, to the people. The new coronavirus has allowed us a first glimpse of what our future will be if we do not change the way we deal with nature. For the NAP, in the economic recovery phase of the country, more than rejecting the dogma of production at all costs we must have the courage to take on a new model that, by rejecting a productive and extractive system based on unbalanced consumerism, ensures a climate-neutral economy, prioritizes investment in environmental goods and services, creates green jobs and places social justice and the well-being of people in front of the established interests that have captured the state in recent decades. In economic recovery, the path must go through the bet on renewable energy, energy efficiency and the reduction of our energy poverty. Even if this does not please EDP, it is necessary to support micro-production of energy and the storage of renewables, giving greater autonomy to families and giving Portugal deserved energy independence. In the coming months, Portugal will have to start investing not only in the scope of electricity mobility and soft mobility but also in the increase in supply and quality of public transport, so that transport is no longer synonymous with lack of supply and « canned preserve ». We will have the opportunity to reduce the dependence of external production chains and adapt our forest and our agriculture to the new climate reality. This is achieved not only by a new position, which completely rejects the construction of luxury hotels by the sea, but by means of the bet on national production, organic agriculture and local production and proximity. Another exit to the economic crisis will be the increase in public investment. But it is necessary to understand whether this investment will serve to adapt the territory to the effects of climate change, in order to minimize, as far as possible, the impact on people, and to base itself on a risk atlas of climate change, or whether we will continue to bury money from people with infrastructures located in flood zones, as is the case with Montijo airport.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u148	Mr Bruno Dias of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u149	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The need for an in-depth debate on the various instruments of Community financing which are being prepared in the institutions of the European Union is an issue with which everyone will agree at the outset. At the outset, when we talk about the need to make strategic planning with the contributions of the various institutions, the doubt remains about whether someone disagrees that this is useful, necessary, positive. And the first question that needs to be asked in this debate is this: what are the consequences of such participations and contributions to be considered or defined? What space, in the process of political decision-making at European Union level, is left for this consequent debate or, rather, for the very application of shortcomings, errors, of the attack on national sovereignty, which amount to, in Brussels, if you are pointing to these instruments in terms of Community funding? When we have a debate process, all of it, developed at the back of the citizens, more now than before, because it covers the even more perverse situation of promoting, from a propagandistic point of view, a whole line of communication based on the idea that now this Europe is listening to people, that it is now that Europe is ruling with people — and, Mr President, it is now that Europe is ruling with people. Ladies and gentlemen, this is completely false, because what is being discussed, what is being prepared, what is being imposed effectively follows a logic of supranational subordination, in which we are told in which areas of thematic concentration, in which logics of European intervention and policies we have to insert and shape our pseudo-Soberan choices – then we have to point out, as in the old history, that «the king goes naked». This genuine process of democratic participation does not go through a limiting interinstitutional dialogue, which does not do well but does not solve, and, from the point of view of the concrete consequences of decisions to be taken in such territorialization of investments, has been losing ground for the framework, as Mr Nuno Fazenda will certainly recognize, precisely at the level of these thematic concentrations, those priority policies at European level, in which we are told, at the outset, "choose your priorities from among those we offer you". Therefore, our priorities, in the territories, in the regions, involving the population, involving local organizations, involving development agents, must, above all, pass through the ability to assume freedom and determination to trace options within a sovereign development path. from our point of view, what reality demonstrates is that this is not what the European Union is allowing, on the contrary, is not part of the solution, but part of the problem. And moving forward with proposals that seek to suit this attack that is being carried out is something that, not exacerbating the situation, not bringing added problems, is far from pointing out the effective answers that the country needs in this area. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u150	Mr João Almeida has the floor for an intervention on behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u151	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This initiative that the Socialist Party here brings to us today is that kind of initiative, I apologize and without disrespect for the content, to fulfil the timetable. It is that, indeed, it adds very little or nothing to what has been a whole discussion work on which the Government of Portugal should stand and the national reflection to do regarding our recovery and the Recovery and Resilience Plan. What we need to discuss here is whether, from an institutional point of view, everything has been done to ensure that this debate is carried out in the manner in which it should have been before submission to Brussels.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u152	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u153	Before we consider extending the debate, it is appropriate to understand whether, within the parliamentary framework, it was done as it should have been. And, Mr Nuno Fazenda, it was not! It wasn't! We learned today in the morning what the government presented yesterday in Gulbenkian and which, however, has already sent to Brussels. And, as we have always said, this plan has commitments at the level of the macroeconomic scenario, but on this there was no discussion. It does not help to say that the government promoted a contest of ideas by calling Saint Benedict all parties, so that everyone would say what he thought was a priority, because then he put on the plan what he well understood, without talking to the parties again. And he did not discuss with the parties the relationship that exists, from the point of view of the macroeconomic scenario, between all the options and the commitments he entered into in the plan. How do we know that those proposals will allow the economic growth or the level of unemployment that are there to be compromised? There was no discussion about it! They say, "Mrs." Members of the Socialist Party : « Let us now hold a great national discussion to see how we will implement this plan ». Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, you have already defined the principles, have already defined the objectives, let us discuss what? Oh, my God! Let's discuss what? Oh, my God! You've already compromised the country! I confess that today, when I heard the Prime Minister, I remembered a few years ago. Mr Prime Minister today was happy because the President of the Commission very much liked our plan. Mrs. Members, I am of the time when Eng. José Socrates, Prime Minister of Portugal, gave press conferences alongside Mr Merkel saying that the PEC (Stabilisation and Growth Programme) that he was going to bring to the Portuguese Parliament were very good. I hope we don't go back to that time! I hope that we will not go back to the time when the Socialist Party, which in the opposition said that it would make a big voice in Europe, in the government, return to a total subservience, preferring the sponsorship of other European leaders to a serious debate in the Portuguese Parliament. That posture is unacceptable! You, whenever you rule, are submissive, prefer the patronage of those who are in Brussels or Berlin... [[Meanwhile, Vice President José Manuel Pureza took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u154	Sir, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u155	... and do not discuss in the Portuguese Parliament what they have to discuss. That's why, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, if you want to discuss something, come here, bring the proposals and be able to discuss it in the right place. The rest can be added, but it can never be the essential. [[Protests of PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u156	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Mr André Ventura has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u157	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Who, outside, would take this draft resolution and read it with intensity: « (...) an initiative that mobilizes interinstitutional debate and wider public auscultation on the implementation of the European Union Recovery Plan (...) ». Anyone who has read this project would be happy to see that the Socialist Party uses these expensive words to make a debate that he did not want to do here in the Portuguese Parliament. The same Socialist Party that wanted to kill the debates on European policy, which wanted to kill the fifteen-year debates on national policy, the same socialist government that removed the President of the Court of Auditors, the same socialist government that put away everything that was uncomfortable comes now to recommend to itself that a debate be held and, I recall, the mobilization for an interinstitutional debate and public hearing. If you're not ashamed, you're very close to it. Someone who wanted to kill all the debate and all the hearing now to say that he wants to have a debate and an auscultation on this matter can only be a joke! The same party that has increased the bureaucracy needed to access support programmes by more than 30 % is now saying that you want to discuss a programme which is already under discussion, decided and presented to the Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u158	Mr. Deputies, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u159	I shall conclude, Mr President. If it weren't for shame, it was very close to it!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u160	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Fabíola Cardoso, from the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u161	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Left Block will always be in favour of creating mechanisms that promote the deepening of democratic debate, which extend political debate to society, including local and sectoral entities, economic partners, universities, environmental bodies and non-governmental associations in all areas. We have always defended mechanisms of direct, participatory and deliberative democracy that allow Portuguese citizens and citizens to participate in the construction and scrutiny of all political initiatives, whether national or European. Active citizenship, bottom-up, territorial asymmetries, differentiated impacts in various communities, we agree. Today, the PS presents to us a draft resolution that aims to encourage debate between the institutions, including those of a territorial nature, and sectoral, economic, social and environmental partners, non-governmental organizations, social inclusion, gender equality and non-discrimination. in this draft resolution, we also call for the involvement of citizens in general and I quote: «In the debate on the diagnosis, priorities and proposals of public policies for the future of their communities ». The Left Block could no longer agree, but the problem is that the object of the project we are now discussing is three instruments for access to the European funds of the new funding framework: the Recovery and Resilience Plan, the Partnership Agreement and the Strategic Plan of the CAP, the common agricultural policy. He did not have Prime Minister António Costa presented yesterday at the Calouste Gulbenkian Foundation, the outline of this Recovery and Resilience Plan that he gives today in Brussels and this would be a much more true discussion. Extended consultations? Oh, my God! Mobilizing processes? Oh, my God! Now? Oh, my God! No, sir. Ladies and gentlemen. What this draft resolution intends to do is only meet the timetable and procedural requirements, taking into account that we all hear when, after all, the decisions are already taken. He had the Ministry of Agriculture answered differently when, on 20 April, the Left Block questioned him about the Strategic Plan of the CAP and this discussion could make much more sense. At that time, we argue, and I quote, that "the development of the Portuguese strategic plan should be open, shared and plural, in order to respond in the best way to the challenges inherent in an accessible and appropriate agricultural production for all people, contributing to the resilience of the territory and guaranteeing fair rights and income to workers in the sector, while preserving biodiversity and climate. But this was April 20th! Are we still going in time to involve local and sectoral entities, associations and people? Oh, my God! Is it now? Oh, my God! Or is this plan already designed and on the way to Brussels? As far as possible, it is desirable that the Government's initiative should be accompanied by full fairness and transparency. It must therefore be as decentralized as possible, in order to reach all the territory and all people as simplified as possible, translating the bureaucratic techniques of the 'European', so as to ensure that it is truly understood by all and by all and that it is also accompanied by human and technical resources so that it is feasible and not merely a proclamation of intentions. We must not play democracy with European funds, as in the case of elections in the CCDRs. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u162	The floor is now for an intervention on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Emilia Cerqueira.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u163	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to leave a note on the title we see and which, moreover, pleases the PSD. The title is « mobilising initiative for interinstitutional debate and wider public hearing on the implementation of the European Union Recovery Plan ( Next Generation EU ), the Partnership Agreement and the Strategic Plan of the CAP ( PEPAC) 2021 - 2027 ». Having said this, the joke of this whole discussion is that it was not brought by any opposition party. It is the government party who pretends to want dialogue with the government he owns! Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I cannot help but ask this question: in the face of this insanitary contradiction, is the PS who believes that there must be an auscultation, in contrast with the « man theory alone» of the António Costa, which, even, does it think that a single « seer» can prepare the Country Recovery and Resilience Plan? Oh, my God! That's it, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen? Oh, my God! I'm saying again that if it wasn't a PS project, it seemed to be a serious thing. The PSD considers it very important to discuss the next multiannual financial plan, whether the Next Generation EU or the Recovery and Resilience Plan, or the new PEPAC. But obviously there is one exception to this discussion: it is that the plan was delivered yesterday.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u164	Yeah!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u165	That's an alternative. In addition to the good intentions of this title, as it seems to us that we are already having this discussion, or the intention to have it too late, we cannot fail to draw attention to some things that are happening with regard to these three fundamental packages for the future of Portugal, which can indeed be a last opportunity for Portugal to develop itself. The PSD listens every day to discuss 'how much' and 'when', i.e. how much we have to spend and when we spend, but very few times we hear 'how' and 'what'. In other words, it is not discussed how the funds should be applied and whether the funds are properly or poorly applied. About that, nobody talks. It is not discussed what value, what contribution it will bring to the development of the country and to cope with the crisis caused by the COVID-19. COVID-19 cannot serve as an excuse for the delays we have been watching in recent years. That is an unforgettable fact for all of us. That is our great concern: its effective application, the « how» and « what», because that is what we have to gather all of us, is not the « when». Allow me one thing: this is how we have a health problem, we have a threatened money and we decide to spend it on any Spa rather than on the surgical procedure that we need. So in terms of « spending », it depends on how we spend what we have, and we do not see that discussion. Even in what we see, which is the Recovery and Resilience Plan that you presented to the European Union, we see a very strong bet, or, better said, an overwhelming spending on public policies. It's all for the public sector! Everything is channelled to the public sector, without an effective vision of the development of our business fabric, of good practices in the territory and such important territorialization, that it confronts the fundamental territorial cohesion. We see, yes, always and constantly, the territory called "of the interior" stay behind and increasingly behind, because this territorialization, so beautiful in the speeches, we do not see it move into reality. This is one of the concerns of the PSD. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a package, as the Prime Minister himself announced, of some EUR 47 billion, of the European Union — I am talking about the various funds that are under discussion in this draft resolution — and the truth is that we have to apply them well. We need to be courageous. [[Protests by PS MP Joana Sá Pereira.]] We must look at a new paradigm so that these funds, in fact, are such an opportunity that Portugal needs. Over the past five years, I assume that because of the « united left », which are on a non-development agenda, we have seen a navigation agenda in sight. We don't waste any more time and we'll get back the wasted time these last five years. We well know that this is the worst time for the PSD to be calling you to responsibility because they are in budget negotiations, in the shadows, in the cabinets, but we hope that the PS, apart from these draft resolutions, which seem to us well- meaning, do what is supposed to do: see the territory and see the needs, developing the Country. The PSD, my ladies and gentlemen, if it is for what is best for the country, will always be next to the solution. That has always been our responsible attitude. It is enough to think that in the European Parliament it was our Euro MPs who fought most for this package so that he would come to Portugal. It is important that this be clear and said: they were the main protagonists of the struggle either by cohesion funds, by the resilience package, or by the multiannual plan, or by PEPAC.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u166	Mrs. Deputy, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u167	I'm really going to finish, Mr. President. So if you do that, count on us. Listen, yes; listen out of time, I'm sorry. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u168	Mr Nuno Fazenda of the Socialist Party still has one minute and 57 seconds to intervene at this stage. Then he's got the 2 minutes off. The Table will signal when the closing time starts. You have the floor, Mr President, for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u169	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by commenting on the statement by Mr João Almeida from the CDS, who tells us that this project adds very little. But it adds very little to why? Oh, my God! Do you disagree with the debate? Do you mind discussing ideas?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u170	That's extemporaneous!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u171	By the way, let me just ask one more question: have you already compromised the country? Oh, my God! Perhaps you have been displeased with the reading of the draft resolution. I shall explain to you: firstly, the Recovery and Resilience Plan is only part of the European funds, not the whole; secondly, this Recovery and Resilience Plan was discussed in the Assembly of the Republic, with the Prime Minister and, two days ago, with two ministers. I mean, it's been debated.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u172	This wasn't it!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u173	More: this Recovery and Resilience Plan has, on the basis of strategic documents, such as the PNPOT (National Programme of Territorial Planning Policy), agendas 2030, which had extensive debate. All of this has happened with great debate! In fact, today, what was presented was just a draft, a first version, as it has been said, an evolutionary document and its latest version will be delivered until April next year. So, the document is open, it's about to discuss. What we regret is only the following: we have not really heard an idea on the part of the CDS. An idea!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u174	The Prime Minister has heard!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u175	Yesterday, for example, a colleague spoke about a PowerPoint, which is not a PowerPoint, as you know, is a denser document that exists on the Recovery and Resilience Plan. The point here is that, on your part, not a slide, not a sheet! Write some paper with an idea! That was useful for the debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u176	That's not true! The Prime Minister has received our ideas!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u177	To come here to criticize without the minimum of support is that it seems to us, in fact, very poor. This, I had to tell you. I must also tell you of this centralist vision that you have,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u178	Centralist? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u179	... of not wanting to hear the regions, as they were discussing. It's a very short thing I didn't want to tell you. But next time they bring ideas to the debate, because in fact that was very little of a contribution. With regard to Mrs Emília Cerqueira, who also told us that the document has already been delivered and that everything is already closed, I would like to say that it is not closed. As I just said, Mrs. Member, he's open, he's a draft, he's a first version. And it's not just this document, the Partnership Agreement is also open, as, moreover, the strategic plan is also open...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u180	Mr President, I inform you that the Bureau assumes that from now on it has entered the time of closure. You can go on.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u181	All right, Mr President, thank you very much. There is therefore room for debate, as is clear to all. As for the delays in current Portugal 2020, Portugal has the greatest executions at European level and there will be no hiatus in the Community funds. of what is being planned, the government has already assured three fundamental things: Portugal 2020 is implementing by 2022... [[Protests by PSD Member Emilia Cerqueira.]] Don't! I just said there are delays in execution!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u182	I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u183	Second, he talked about the inside.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u184	I talked about it.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u185	There's been an agenda for the inside. I repeat, there's been an agenda for the inside. There have been several notices of competitions with positive discrimination in the interior, and yet, what needs to be reinforced. More: In the Recovery and Resilience Plan this is planned, like various investments, especially on the roads, on the inside. These are the notes I wanted to leave and, as I think I am already using my closing time, I just want to say that the government did the housework it had to do, mobilized the largest package of European funds that there is memory, developed strategies, made debates and has been ahead of time. in this sense, Portugal has no void in the funds and the institutions and companies will not fail to have Community funds. I would also like to reply to Mr Ventura, but he is present. In fact, Mr Ventura has this question of missing very much from these meetings. But not being here, at last, is what is possible. Too bad I'm not. As for the NAP, I only say that in fact energy transition, environmental transition and energy efficiency are subjects that are planned and will not cease to be in this Recovery and Resilience Plan. Finally, with regard to Mr Bruno Dias of the Portuguese Communist Party, we believe that there are substantive beacons, but Member States have the margin to be able to define their priorities.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u186	Mr. Deputies, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u187	This is a contribution. Let us hope that everyone can now make a contribution to the debate, including the CDS, which has actually not been able to add any idea. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u188	Mrs. Members, let us move to the fourth point of our agenda, which consists of the discussion of draft resolution No 298 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Commitment to cooperation for the social and solidarity sector. To present this initiative, you have the floor, on behalf of the proposing party, Mrs Carla Madureira.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u189	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The social and solidarity sector is a pillar of Portuguese society and the social state in any situation. We also bear in mind the irreplaceable role played by social institutions in the depreciation of devastating effects on families and the most vulnerable caused by the financial crisis that has shaken our country. In full health emergency situation COVID-19, once again the social and solidarity sector has been and is in front of the battle, alongside the Portuguese, caring for the elderly, protecting the families and serving as a social cushion and instrument to support the economic recovery of the country. The social institutions are from north to south of the country, in the interior, on the coast and on the islands, knowing the needs and weaknesses of the communities and contributing, by their action, to the development and social cohesion and the territory. Responses to the elderly, to young people and children, people with disabilities, with mental illness, with additive behaviors, vulnerable people, families and communities continue, replacing and complementing the role of the social state. The spirit of mission and humanism, solidarity and delivery are its matrix. An idea that does not always have correspondence on the part of the State or in time, in form or in financial flows. We see these institutions plunged into enormous difficulties, in budgetary imbalances which call into question their future sustainability, as a result of the continued underfunding of social responses. We have heard for days in this House a member of the PS board saying that the government has increased the values of cooperation between 2015 and 2018 by 90 million, but we have also read a study by the Catholic University that says taxively that public funding to IPSS has decreased between 2016 and 2018. It's not the PSD who says it, it's the one who's studying these things! Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The propaganda illudes, but does not pay bills! The PS fills the chest to say that it increases funding to the social and solidarity sector, but in the real country we see institutions immersed in difficulties and we read studies that say precisely the opposite. PS says it increases the number of doctors and nurses in the National Health Service and we all know the state of primary health care and care activity for non-COVID-19 patients. The PS claims to hire more school employees and we all see what's going on there. And we would have so many more examples here to leave. in an addendum to the Cooperation Agreement for the Social and Solidarity Sector, the Government updated these agreements by 3, 5 % and subsequently reinforced the financing of homes and home support by 5 %. Still, these values are far from impacting the effective costs of operating the social responses protocoled. We are talking about the brutal increase in costs with the adaptation of social equipment, with the need for more human resources, with the individual protective equipment and with the implementation of other preventive measures of COVID-19 contact with the recommendations of the competent authorities. The draft resolution presented here calls for the extraordinary updating of financial participation within the framework of the cooperation commitment that nullifies the differential in relation to the actual cost that social responses represent to the institutions. In order to ensure that IPSSs are able to fulfil their responsibilities with the Government, with their users and families, we defend the timely conclusion of cooperation agreements. It is also necessary to make a timely payment of the financial participations due to social security under the cooperation agreements concluded. For those who so much advocate and defend the social state is not asking too much. contrary to what we have heard days ago in this House, the extraordinary update of financial participation within the framework of the cooperation commitment is not a blessing or a reward to social institutions; it is, above all, co-responsibility, truth and transparency in a partnership relationship. It is not to abuse a dominant position. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u190	You now have the floor on behalf of the PS, Mrs. Cristina Mendes da Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u191	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in relation to draft resolution No 298 / XIV / 1. the PSD, which aims at a cooperation commitment for the social and solidarity sector, should mention the following : firstly, that the financial support for the IPSS does not run out in the financial participations arising from cooperation agreements concluded with the Social Security Institute ; secondly, it is misleading who thinks that the PSD was needed to remember this draft resolution so that the Government and the Socialist Party would value the social sector as an important pillar of Portuguese society. The Socialist Party has always made its commitments to the social sector, promoting new agreements, renewing existing ones and encouraging cooperation between the State and the institutions. Otherwise, let's see: the Rabbit Pass Government did what, as a bet in this sector, was to increase the number of beds per room to reduce participations. in this annoyance of cuts, reduced the number of social security technicians and cut social benefits, especially refers to the violence of the cut in the solidarity complement for the elderly, but at the moment the PSD begs the right to steal the authorship of the renegotiation of the cooperation commitment. The Socialist Government has always bet on the social state and the social economy and, to your knowledge, in 2017, 2018, 2019 and 2020 increases in the financial sharing of IPSS have been promoted. The Commitment of Cooperation for the Social and Solidarity Sector for the Biennial 2019 - 2020, signed in July 2019, ensured an increase of 3, 5 % of the financial contribution to the Social Sector, the largest increase since 2009. this year, due to the response to COVID-19, cooperation agreements with the sector had an increase in financial participation of 5, 5 % for the social responses most affected by the pandemic. These include: home support services, residential structures for elderly people, residential homes, among others. But we did not only increase financial participation, we also increased support for the construction and renovation of equipment with the PARES programme ( Social Equipment Network Enlargement Programme ) and strengthened the target gaps of financial participation through the PROCOOP ( Co-operation Agreements for Social Response Development Programme or Enlargement Programme). PROCOOP, which has ensured transparency in the allocation of these funds, has since 2016 promoted an increase of 23 % of the cooperation funds, reaching a total sum of EUR 1, 6 million in 2020, i.e. an increase almost three times higher than the one verified in the PSD government — we realize that adding beds is cheaper than ensuring quality social responses! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Through the PARES it is proceeding to extend the network of day care facilities with 7000 new vacancies, but, as it is continuous effort, today the third notice of the PARES has been issued with an appropriation of EUR 110 million for the extension of the network of social equipment, through the construction or requalification of day care facilities for the elderly, day care centres, residential homes and occupational activities centres for people with disabilities. But the Government of the Socialist Party has also implemented the following: National Monitoring Programme for 120 000 employees; strengthening PPE(individual protection equipment) with an allocation of EUR 1, 3 million; Adapting Social +, with EUR 10 million; measures to support emergency reinforcement for 6800 people in 1000 institutions; protocols with the Red Cross, with CASES (Sergey Employment Cooperative) ; exemption from VAT; the social employment market, where I highlight the MAREESS Programme (support for the emergence of social and health equipment), the Local Partnerships Programme for Employment and Training, the CIS (Employment and Integration Contracts), and the CIS+, which have given so many opportunities to employ so many unemployed people long-term unemployed; and the National Radar Social Programme, which has recruited 3000 young people. It is therefore unacceptable to the PSD when presenting this draft resolution when the Government of the Socialist Party has done everything to monitor the efforts and work of the private institutions of social solidarity, strengthening measures, efforts and support, especially if we think that, even at such a difficult time, social networks have been respected and strengthened which have empowered and empowered their partners in each territory and which, together with the Government, are being able to fight not only against this pandemic but also to do everything to improve and ensure the necessary social responses throughout the country. All this in behalf of people, especially of the most fragile people. These are the answers to a strong and efficient social state. The Socialist Party has a commitment to the Portuguese: never leave anyone behind. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u192	For an intervention, Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u193	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to begin this intervention with a greeting to the workers of the social sector, who have carried out several actions of struggle in recent days, and a special greeting to the workers of mercy, who are today in a concentration with the Ministry of Labour, denouncing the low wages that continue in time, the lack of appreciation of their expertise and knowledge, the imposition, which took place by the institutions, long working days — 10, 12, 24 hours followed and 7, 14 consecutive days—, having been these workers prevented by their employers, the institutions we are talking about today, to assist their children. These workers are also considered essential services in the current context, which were and are in the front line. They are the workers of these institutions, which we are talking about today, who care for children, young people, the elderly, people with disabilities and who guarantee the follow-up of social groups in situations of special vulnerability. Without these workers there is no institution that works and it is to these workers that the PSD does not give a single word in its initiative. In particular, what the PSD here proposes basically is the extension of existing cooperation agreements and the fulfilment of measures that the Government should have already implemented. We remember here, Mrs Carla Madureira, that the CFP proposed strengthening the number of workers for the IPSS, workers with rights, of course rejecting the hiring with precarious links, of unemployed workers through IEC or IEC + programmes. In our initiative, we had an article on financing the institutions and cooperation agreements, where we proposed that measures to strengthen workers in social equipment be financed by the State budget, with their amounts transferred to social security, and, in the case of the conversion of employment contracts towards the effective linkage, guaranteeing rights, wages and discounts to these workers, when the exercise of functions in social equipment covered by social security cooperation agreements is concerned, they would be considered under their cooperation agreement and should reflect the value corresponding to the amounts spent on the remuneration of the workers concerned. With regard to this initiative to strengthen workers in these institutions, which is a recognised need, and to strengthen their funding by social security, the PSD voted against. You voted against an initiative that would solve a wide range of problems for the institutions that you say you are defending today. This initiative strengthened the number of workers and ensured the conditions for the institutions to keep these same workers. When we proposed here a system of support for families in the frequency of child support equipment, considering the urgent response in the country context, in which we proposed the extension of vacancies in day care centres and cooperation agreements, the PSD's vote also contributed to rejecting this proposal of the CFP, which guarantees families a set of benefits in the face of the situation in which they were, in particular in the reduction of the monthlyities and also in the prevention of the cancellation of family default registration, considering unemployment and dismissal situations. It was important for the PSD to say what it wanted with this initiative, Mrs Deputy, particularly with regard to point (b) of this draft resolution: is it to repeat what they did in the past, opening vacancies in the homes not considering the conditions of the institutions, in which individual rooms were transformed into double rooms, double rooms into triples, where they put the IPSS to burst through the seams? Or is it to transfer again and to carry even more on the IPSS responsibilities that are not yours because they must first be taken over by the State, Mrs Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u194	Mrs Diana Ferreira, you must conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u195	I'm really going to finish, Mr. President. The CFP considers that the action of these institutions is indeed important, but as a complement to the public responses to which the State is constitutionally required and not in its replacement to the State. All this reality cannot serve, as it has served over the years, for the State to take responsibility for its social functions. The path cannot be a deepening of this deresponsibility, the path must be the creation of public responses, to serve all, universally and equally. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u196	The next intervention is the NAP. You have the floor, to that end, Mrs Bebiana Cunha.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u197	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Indeed, the strategic importance of the social and solidarity sector has been recognized by the State and is based on a sharing of objectives, common interests and sharing of obligations and responsibilities between each party. We know that the main objective is that, through a network of integrated responses, national and equitable coverage of social services and equipment is guaranteed. To this end, it is essential that the State and the other partners ensure, in a transparent and rigorous manner, the sustainability of the institutions and the intervention projects. Social economic organisations have a fundamental role to play, complementing the State, in the diversified capacity to respond to the needs of people and communities. We talk about responses such as the reception of children and young people, support for the integration and training of people with disabilities or limitations, health care, solidarity networks of pre-school education, among many others. Without the intervention of social economy entities, many of the public responses will be left to go. But these entities also need that their resources, their means, their projects and their professionals have stability and continuity over time, to avoid undermining the trust and expectations of their users and so that their professionals do not feel that they are not recognized or supported. The commitment relationship between the State and these entities must be guided by this. The professionals of these institutions do their best, often exceed their obligations not to fail users, but are tired, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. Because of this wear, we lost excellent technicians, we lost excellent professionals, we lost work done and we lost the confidence established by the population. It cannot be asked, and much less demand, to continue to meet the daily needs of the community without the means and stability to do so. And you need new answers, too, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, new answers to old problems and current problems. We know that we are living exceptional times, in which traditional solutions need to be balanced with innovative social responses. But there is another aspect to which the NAP has constantly been alerted. The Government has established lines of financing to private institutions of social solidarity or entities similar to micro or small enterprises and has left aside institutions of public utility. in the one who is the motto which has repeatedly been strengthened to « leave no one behind », which has so much been applied during this crisis, these public utility entities must be included in these social responses, which cannot be left out.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u198	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u199	Public utility entities cannot stay out of these support and people can not be left without these social responses.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u200	You now have the floor for an intervention on behalf of the CDS-PP, Mr João Almeida.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u201	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would first like to congratulate the PSD on this initiative. It is not a matter of compliance, but of compliance with the substance, because we see ourselves on the initiative. In fact, we have already put forward initiatives in the same direction. Unfortunately, the problem of private institutions of social solidarity, this year, did not start with the pandemic, started with the State Budget. It was the State Budget, approved by PS, PCP, Left Block and The Greens, which created a huge problem for these institutions. Why? For the inconsistencies between the revision of the minimum guaranteed remuneration, the minimum wage, and the revision of the State's participation in cooperation agreements. In other words, while staff costs are known to have an average weight of 70 % in the IPSS, the PS, the PCP, the Left Block and the Greens increased the minimum guaranteed remuneration by 6 % and increased the cooperation agreements by 3 %, i.e. about half. What happens is that private institutions of social solidarity, which already had treasury problems for all the obligations they have to meet, have been in a broken state. And this wasn't the CDS you invented. This was said by Mr. President of CNIS ( National Confederation of Solidarity Institutions ) and Mr. President of the Union of Portuguese Mercy to Mr. President of the Republic. Such was the seriousness of the situation that they both addressed to the President of the Republic to alert him. With the onset of the pandemic, of course, the situation worsened. The situation has worsened because the pressure on households is higher, the link between health and social security has not only continued to exist as, in some cases, it has worsened, due to the total lack of operationality of the health bodies, in order to be able to meet the requirements of the homes. Then another problem arose. It is that, in the first answer, when individual protective equipment were needed and when tests were needed in sufficient quantity, if they were not the authorities and the IPSS itself, the elderly had been completely abandoned. Therefore, it is fundamental again to remember that it was the autarchies and the IPSSs that mattered when the central state failed at all. The same central state that now appears with a few brigades, in a reduced version in relation to what it had originally presented, at the end of more than six months. That is, the central State, the government, is still late in responding to the elderly. And, worse, it still fails to comply with what was essential from the budgetary point of view. And there is not only the government responsible, but the PS, the PCP, the Left Block and the Greens, who knew perfectly well when they approved the last State budget, which were creating a serious problem for the IPSS. It is with initiatives such as the CDS presented last week and how the PSD presents today that we can effectively solve this problem.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u202	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr José Soeiro, from the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u203	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In Portugal, the social equipment network has about 11,000 equipment, which serves, gives a social response to 400 000 people. The overwhelming majority of these equipment, which are private and social sector, are IPSS. These IPSSs exist basically because the state finances them. That is to say, there is a sort of secondary civil society, which was driven by social security cooperation agreements. It is EUR 1500 million each year — in the last State budget of around 1500 million — that are transferred from the State budget to the IPSS, to these social responses. In fact, in our normative framework, social care was referred to the field of solidarity, were framed in the principle of subsidiarity and therefore were not codified as a right. In other words, the State has subtracted itself from the public provision of answers as important as the response to childhood, such as day care care, the homes of the elderly, equipment in the area of disability or day care centres for the elderly. For the State, there is an advantage in this withdrawal from the public provision, which is the fact that it pays less than what it would spend if it assumed responsibility. But the consequences are heavy, both for the workers and for the population, because we know there is a huge shortage of supply. To give only one example, in the field of care for elderly people, only 12, 8 % of elderly people have access to a response from the social equipment network – official data of the social diagnosis. And in addition to this shortage of supply, the fact that these care is not constituted as a right does not allow people to claim their realization by the State.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u204	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u205	Moreover, IPSS workers have very low wages, are deeply devalued and have a work overload that has no compensation. If we compare the same functions in the public sector and in the private sector, we see wage differences of the order of €100, for example, in the field of social support. Therefore, the consequence of this privatization, of this externalization of social responses, is precariousness, social devaluement. The State is a State that finances, it is a State that controls, it is a kind of multi-bank state, but which, in fact, cannot guarantee the universality of access or the quality of care provided. Another consequence of the reality we have is the proliferation of clandestine responses. It is not by chance that in Portugal the shortage of public supply and the fact that private supply is not accessible to most families means that there are 35 000 people living in clandestine homes. We have already proposed in this Parliament that, in the negotiation of cooperation agreements by the Government, criteria may be introduced which, of course, revise the funds but which have as their counterpart respect for working conditions, the fight against precariousness. It makes no sense for the State to have, for example, integrated the women who were in social security into false green receipts and continue to finance IPSS who have the same functions and who continue in an illegal regime, of false green receipts, without seeing their recognized contract.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u206	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u207	It is important that, also in this review of cooperation agreements, work and wage conditions are harmonized between public sector workers and IPSS workers. And, above all, we cannot continue to accept that the strengthening of staff, workers, in social responses, as happened in the homes, is done at the expense of employment-inclusion contracts. We are talking about 15 000 workers who the government announced were going to work for the homes, without a contract of employment, without a salary, with a grant that adds to the unemployment allowance. It's indefensible! And, regardless of whether or in parallel to this review of cooperation agreements, we need to invest in a public network of social care, social responses.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u208	Mr. Deputies, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u209	In conclusion, Mr President, we need to rethink our own model of intervention and institutionalization. I believe that this is the main challenge that lies ahead and to which the Left Block intends to respond. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u210	The PSD also has 54 seconds to intervene and, as follows, it also has time to close the debate, if there is no opposition, we will proceed in the same way as we did in the previous point, and then Mrs Carla Madureira will use 2 minutes and 54 seconds. The Bureau shall inform when it enters the closing time. Mrs Carla Madureira has the floor, therefore, for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u211	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It has been clear this afternoon — and clearly — the irreplaceable role that the social sector has in the Portuguese community, the invaluable contribution that IPSS and the entire social sector give to a community and the importance they have for the development and cohesion of the territory. Mrs. Cristina Mendes da Silva, really, came to do what the Socialist Party has done very well, which is to paint a very pink country, but the truth, naked and raw, is not this. What is happening, especially in the social sector, is not the pink truth that the honourable Member here has painted. And as much as socialist propaganda strives, it will not be able to overcome the irrefutable chronic underfinancing of the social responses covered by the cooperation commitment, which is pushing the accounts of the institutions towards red, year after year, threatening their sustainability in the long term. [[PSD applause.]] This reality that we are talking about here is much before the pandemic, which has been seriously aggravated by it and which has left the human resources shortages naked, and others, which result from the real stretch to which these institutions are subject. The PS is announcing millions and more million, talked about the PARES program—let's see how this program will work in version 3.0. What is important to strengthen is that this draft resolution which the PSD brings here today is only defending that the Government will, in time, celebrate the cooperation agreements, pay the agreed shares on time and update the value of these, taking into account the increase of costs with human resources and others. We cannot continue to leave the institutions alone and continue to let some of them stay behind and to continue to check what is being seen, which are the difficulties of the institutions. Yes, Mrs. Member, yes, Socialist Party, it's not all right in the social sector. It's not all right, and there's evidence, that we've been here and that we've been talking about this afternoon. It is good that they look at the social sector differently and that they do what they really say. We will be very careful to see if, in this State budget, what is being promised and fulfilled will be done and also whether the parties that have been by your side will align this strategy, coming here doing something and then begging another. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u212	We have thus concluded the fourth point of our agenda and we are moving immediately to the fifth and last point, of which the joint discussion, in general, of Bills 64 / XIV / 1. a ( CFP ) — Ensures effective compliance with working hours and reconciliation of work with family life and repeals adaptability and hourly bank mechanisms in group modalities and by collective regulation( 16 ). the amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February approving the Labour Code), 65 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Ensures effective compliance with working hours and reconciliation of work with family life and repeals individual adaptability mechanisms( 16 ). the amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February approving the Labour Code ), 533 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ) — Eliminates the group-hour bank and, by group agreement, individual and group adaptability and strengthens the monitoring of working hours( 16 ). the amendment to the Labour Code ), 534 / XIV / 2. a ( NAP) — Approves measures to ensure the reconciliation of work with family life and greater professional stability, with effect from 16. the amendment to the Labour Code, to 13. the amendment to the General Law on Public Works, and to the 6. the amendment to Decree-Law No 91 / 2009 of 9 April and 539 / XIV / 2. a ( IL) — Restores the individual time bank( 16 ). the amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February which approved the Labour Code ). To present the initiatives of the CFP, Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u213	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The working hours and their compliance, the respect for rest and leisure times, the articulation of professional life with personal and family life, the fulfilment and payment of the due compensation provided for in the law continue today, with emphasis to the present context, the target of strong attacks, questioning workers' rights. In the middle of the 21st century, there are still taxes on long working days, additional work that is not paid, a deep deregulation of working hours, with consequences in the daily life of workers, their families and their health as well. More and more, the abuse of continuous work, night work and shift work, which we discussed here last week on a proposal from the CFP, but also the illegal extension of working hours, concentrated hours, the run-up to weekly rest, adaptability, individual and group hours banks. More working hours and less pay—that's what we're talking about. As we speak of workers who do not know at what time they leave their place of work or who often do not know, with the necessary advance, at what time they will enter; of communiqué and altered schedules on the part of the event, at the will of the boss; of workers subject to hours of 12, 14, 16 hours of daily work and at weeks of 60 hours following each other; of harmful consequences for the physical and psychic health of workers; of mothers and parents who are not with children who do not follow them; of children who are deprived of their right to be accompanied by their parents. For employers, more than a human being with the right to personal and family life, the worker is another factor of production to which the maximum profit should be withdrawn. The imposition of generalization of unpaid work through new flexibility in the organization of working time, be it the hour banks, intermittent hours, individual or group adaptability, availability time, part-time work with intermittents, by the hands of the latest PSD/CDS government — a measure which the PS government did not want to eliminate in overwhelming majority — aims to increase working time without charge to the employer. In FNAC, the hour bank can distance workers 12 hours from the family — the hours are too much, the pay is the same, the workers do not know when they return home. FNAC does not need to hire more workers, does not pay extra hours and is still 150 hours from the lives of workers to use their bel-plesure. In Hutchinson, COVID-19 was the pretext for imposing an individual hour bank, a solution considered illegal since 2019 for its revocation. At the Pingo Doce / Jerónimo Martins, Sonae and many other workplaces are made genuine misinformation campaigns by the patronate, who has pressure behaviors, blackmail on the workers so that they accept the hour bank, including using instruments, such as referendums, which are used to pressure the employer even more the worker to accept the hour bank. In all these places and in many others, workers have manifested themselves, rejecting this solution. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The struggle for the reduction of the working day carried out by the workers movement went through the 19th and 20th centuries. In our country, these civilizational achievements have made significant progress with the revolution of 25 April 1974, and over several years with responsibilities of successive governments, PSD, PS and CDS, have been imposed deep setbacks. Eight hours of daily work, eight hours of rest, eight hours of leisure, living and culture—is a tremendously current demand, especially if we take into account the so-called 'time flexibility'. These mechanisms represent the adequacy of the organization of working time to the interests of employers, imposing, in practice, extensions of unpaid working time and consequently an increase in working hours. It is time to act, to guarantee dignified times. It is time to live, to live as a family, time for parents and mothers to be with their children, to accompany their children in all dimensions of their growth and development — this is a right of the child! And, without prejudice to the necessary reduction in working hours for 35 hours, the strengthening of maternity, paternity and childcare rights and monitoring, the replacement of the values paid for extraordinary work—all these are matters on which the CFP has a proposal delivered in the Assembly — the limitation of shift and night work and the due compensation of these workers, as the CFP has defended, the revocation of the hours banks, in particular group, and adaptability mechanisms, is essential for effective compliance with working hours and for ensuring a link between work and personal and family life. This is also a contribution from the CFP for those working to be valued, to have secure and strengthened labour rights and to have time to live. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u214	To present the legislative initiative of the Left Block, Mr José Soeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u215	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : In Portugal, 75 % of workers on behalf of others work with a flexible working time modality. In this context, the hour bank was a mechanism for desregulation of the hours and for embarrassment of the value of the work. Initially, in 2009, the hour bank was covered by collective bargaining, but with the 2012 reform, it became possible to be individually imposed by individual contracts, and also introduced the figure of the group hour bank, through which it was possible to extend the hour bank to workers who expressly refused it. These standards allowed, in about a decade, to generalize this mechanism, offering employers cheaper work and extra hours without increase, but imposing on those who work, through the banalization of hourly banks, a disorganization of personal and family life, an added difficulty in reconciling employment, family and leisure and a reduction of autonomy that transforms workers into instruments in the hands of the bosses, conditioned by all kinds of blackmails. In the previous legislation, the Government, according to the left, ended with the individual hourly bank in the Labour Code, but the counterpart it offered to the employers was the maintenance of a group hours bank. This can be imposed on workers against their express will and has become able to be validated by referendums that simulate a alleged plebiscite process, made to remove union mediation and also to circumvent collective bargaining, in a lamentable trick against unions, introduced into the work reform of 2019. As if it were not enough, these referendums have been carried out without respect for the more basic rules than the previous law itself, which confirmed, moreover, that the monitoring of the process by the Working Conditions Authority was obviously a mirage. In recent months we have seen no-time or local referendums, no-confidential ballots, via digital platforms controlled by employers, as happened in Pingo Doce, with data from workers provided to external companies, with trade unions prevented from attending and monitoring the votes, as happened in FNAC. In fact, these proceedings are currently in dispute in court and have been challenged by trade union organisations. in a relationship marked by inequality between the parties, as always happens in the working relationship, it is the right of work to protect and protect the weakest part, in a framework of imbalance of power. Invoking, in this context, the alleged freedom of the parties is a cynical form of the law to mask mechanisms of unilateral imposition. The group time bank is therefore a perverse figure that brings into question individual and collective rights. The Left Block, with this bill, aims to purge from Portuguese law these figures of deregulation and imposition, thus introducing a balance, where today abuse and exploitation prevail. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u216	We moved on to the intervention of the NAP. To that end, you have the floor of Mrs Bebiana Cunha.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u217	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In our society, work has a very important role to play in obtaining income and, without prejudice to the debate that we believe it should be done about precisely the role of work in today's society, today we make some contributions to the discussion that must be made with regard to the reconciliation of personal and family life with working life. As a result of various economic and political pressures, social crises and imbalances in the labour relationship, there are still many working conditions and relationships that are not compatible with decent work, nor with the necessary requirements for reconciling this sphere of life, the personal and family sphere, with the sphere of work. The reconciliation of work with family life cannot be left solely in the plan of good intentions, nor can it be just proclamational. The right to work cannot violate the right to personal and family life, on the contrary it is necessary to balance and bring benefits in both directions, because to disbalance one side is to disbalance both. Arguments such as productivity and recovery of the crisis are not accepted to justify what might be runaways. It is necessary to ensure reconciliation without professional retaliation or depreciation. In fact, the best companies and many companies with good practice already do so and, rather than harming the lives of workers, contribute to a happier and more successful life. With this proposal that the NAP brings today, we intend to reverse some setbacks that we consider have been committed in recent years and thus also propose some progress. in this proposal, we highlight the following: it is essential to replace the right to compensatory rest by additional work provision, as well as the replacement of the values that should be paid for this work. But we also want to strengthen the rights of working mothers and parents, reinforcing the protection of parenthood by extending the duration of the initial parental leave for six months. We know well, and the data say it, that the number of mothers to breastfeed decreases dramatically from the fourth and fifth months of the child's life. Now, ladies and gentlemen. Members, this is precisely the stage in which mothers have to return to work, which clearly runs counter to the recommendations of the World Health Organization and to the resolution of the World Health Assembly. When we talk about work, we also talk about first job opportunities that, well we know, in situations like the one we live in, are difficult. We therefore propose the reversal of barriers to entry into the labour market and greater stability of working life, with regard to the demand for the first job, to long-term unemployed, from the current 180 days to the 90 days, pointing also to a review of the scope of the use of short-term employment contracts. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, it seems to us that the assumptions we bring here are fair and expectable in more developed societies. We need to move towards a healthy and sustainable economy, where human resources are the basis of organizations, because without them there are no organizations. We then walk in order to dignify work, improve working conditions and make work a qualitative role in people's lives and family life in people's work.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u218	The next intervention, also to present its legislative initiative, is the responsibility of Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u219	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Whoever has already worked outside this House knows that the work of a company is not regular over time. There are peaks that alternate with lower activity heights. For the sake of its sustainability, companies have to organize themselves and organize their work according to these variations. And one way of doing this is by resorting to the payment of extraordinary hours to the workers, so that they perform their function beyond the normal working time. The extraordinary work can, however, if it occurs frequently, significantly increase the company's salary mass and affect its viability. On the other hand, extraordinary hours are, by their nature, difficult to plan, either for the company or for the worker. For the company, this implies maintaining a liquidity reserve that no longer affects its management fund or, even, investment that could contribute to its growth. For the worker, it is also not beneficial not to have a regular income, which makes it difficult to manage the family budget. To respond to this reality it is most useful to allow the employer and the worker to agree beforehand, and within certain limits, weekly and annual increases in the hours worked, as well as their form of payment. That is what the hour bank wants to achieve and that this bill of ours contemplates. According to the current legal regime, the possibility of using hourly banks depends on their forecast as a collective working regulation instrument, since the possibility of using hourly banks by individual negotiation has recently been repealed. Given the importance that the hourly bank has been assuming for more efficient business management and therefore for its profitability, sustainability and capacity to create jobs, it is important to restore the possibility of individual hourly banks being negotiated. This mechanism is of even greater importance when, in response to the pandemic crisis, companies need even more adaptability. The worker will always be compensated for his work, in the way he freely agrees with his employer. This agreement, without which the hourly bank does not operate, strengthens the worker's negotiating power and fulfils the double objective of greater predictability of costs and income, on the one hand, and greater flexibility of hours and forms of remuneration, on the other.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u220	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u221	I shall conclude by saying that only those who have a static and outdated view of the economy may think that the future will not require everyone — companies, workers and even legislators — more flexibility and adaptability. The reintroduction of the individual hourly bank is essential for this.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u222	Mrs Lina Lopes, from the PSD, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u223	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, five bills are under discussion, two from the PCP, one from the Left Block, one from the PAN and one from the Liberal Initiative. These initiatives aim to amend the Labour Code, in particular the working hours and their flexibility, the hourly, individual and group banking, and the reconciliation of work with working life. What we are discussing is new amendments to the Labour Code, amendments which, just one year ago, some of them have come into force and whose effects have not yet been revealed or could be assessed. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot be constantly revoking or amending labour laws without giving room for stability and the containment of the legislative process. International reports tell us that the unpredictability of laws repels investment in our country. And the country needs, more than ever, to build trust. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in a new time, in a time of uncertainty for all of us and, above all, for workers and businesses. This is a time of learning, during which social dialogue, including collective bargaining and social dialogue, should play its role, contributing to the social cohesion and the confidence of Portuguese in the institutions of democracy. This crisis made even more visible the structural weaknesses that were known: low qualifications, precariousness, segmentation of the labour market, limited efficiency and effectiveness of public services. Inequalities have been more pronounced, having reached the most vulnerable groups: young people, women, precarious workers and the least qualified. This crisis has triggered unemployment — more than 110,000 unemployed and less than 160 thousand jobs than a year ago. In just five months, 140 thousand jobs were lost. One in four young people is unemployed. And the predictions about the evolution of the pandemic do not, unfortunately, leave us at ease. The risks of new vacancies, with the consequences of public health, public services, and in economic and social terms are real and should not be squambled. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is true that weaknesses have been detected, particularly in telework and in reconciling work with working life. The social partners have made a great contribution to social peace that we so value. We must not forget that social consultation is the cornerstone in determining conditions and working relationships, with a particular impact on the organization of working time and on the conditions of its performance. hence the increased responsibility of social consultation in response to the challenges that the pandemic came to anticipate and accelerate. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, a new budget was presented three days ago, and we are a few days from the discussion in this House. It is natural that new commitments appear and will probably be necessary adjustments to the labour law, as is predictable with the Budget that has been presented to us. Let us look at the difficulties that companies and workers face right now and, in a serious way, make the necessary adjustments to the new reality that we face and that unfortunately we do not know how it will end. Deserving work, decent and sustainable employment, is a condition sine qua no of a country that is fairer and more supportive. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Social Democratic Party believes that the amendments to the Labour Code should be preceded by a broad debate in the context of social dialogue, because it is through a dialogue between workers' representatives, employers' and government representatives who find the most appropriate and balanced solutions to the world of work. This is the time to wait for the discussion of the State budget and to wait for the discussion at the centre of social dialogue. We are concerned about the future and are concerned about discussing and finding the best solutions for businesses and workers. We are in favour of more and better jobs, less precarious and better paid jobs. More training, more investment and more confidence in the legislative process are needed. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD will be beaten by laws that encourage the labour market, which reduce unemployment and increase job creation. We must also say that the PSD will fight for labour measures that create and strengthen the economy. Above all, we will fight for a strong social state and promote equal opportunities among all Portuguese. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u224	Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro of the Socialist Party has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u225	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: at this point in our agenda, we discussed important projects relating to workers'rights, or, as the Liberal Initiative Member would say, concerning the rights of employees. The defence of the world of work is a common heritage of the left and the legislation that presides over its regulation is permanently unfinished, permanently constructed, to respond to the needs that, at times, we speak, still unknown, new-type needs, which should not be crystallized, never forgetting, when we do so, that labour legislation exists to protect workers. This is the way we have seen since 2015, and it has been with this spirit that we have made changes to labour law, changes that are oriented towards promoting decent work, in a spirit of dialogue among all parties, especially on our left, and to the construction of the necessary changes, without abdicating the differences that are identity heritage, obviously, of each party. It has been so, and it is important to remember that, since 2015, among many other measures, we have increased the national minimum wage, in a cumulative increase of already over 25 %; we have strengthened the Authority's inspection capacity for the Working Conditions of the Working Conditions Authority, by intervening in situations of precariousness and monitoring what is happening in the world of work; we have increased the national minimum wage, in a cumulative increase of over 25 %; we have strengthened the inspection capacity of the Authority for the Working Conditions of the Working Conditions of Work, by intervening in situations of precariousness and by monitoring what is happening in the world of work; we have promoted the revitalization of collective bargaining ; we have promoted the ; we have promoted the ; we have promoted the ; we have promoted the dyle national employment ; we have increased the inspection capacity of the Authority for working conditions of the Labour Conditions of Working Conditions of Employment ; we have increased the ; we have increased the ; we have increased the ; we have increased the number of working conditions of the national ; we have increased the national participation ; we have increased the minimum ; we have increased the employment ; we have increased the employment ; we have increased the employment ; we have increased the employment ; we have increased the employment ; we have increased the employment ; we have increased the employment ; we have increased the job ; we have had a change ; we have a job ; we have a job ; we have a change ; we have had a group, the group, the group, the group, the group, the group, the combined signature, the joint signature, the combined signature, the signature, the signature, the signature, the signature, the signature, the signature, the signature, the signature, the signature, the signature, the signature, the signature, the signature, the signature, the signature, the signature, the signature, the signature, the signature, the signature, the signature, the signature, the signature, the signature, the signature, the group, the signature, the signature, the group, the group, the group, the group, the group, the group, the group, the group And I could continue, here, for much longer than the five minutes to which I am entitled, to describe the path we have seen and a set of changes that aim to promote more dignity, more protection for workers and more justice at work. This is the path we have come to, and this is where our vision of intervention in the labour market is directed. The debate on reconciling work with family life and adaptability mechanisms is a very important debate to prevent the working hours from going beyond what is working days, which invades quality times, leisure times, time for the family. And what we have experienced, in fact, over the past few months, over this year, with the new approaches to telework, with the new realities, gives rise to this concern and this intervention: workers are not machines, they do not belong to companies, they are people who must be respected in their individuality, working hours and in the free management of their time. That is why we have come to work, that is why we have come to fight, not closing any doors, not abdicating any solutions. The Government has been working on this: it has drawn up a Green Paper on the Future of Work, proposed the setting up of a tripartite working group in the Standing Committee on Social Concertation, with the aim of promoting, precisely, a strategic global agreement on the issues of reconciliation between work and personal life, around birth, around the family, around parenthood, including in collective bargaining these and other topics, such as licenses, working hours, telework, instruments to support conciliation, and we do not think it appropriate to make any kind of change before the conclusions of that working group are public and before the partners complete their work precisely. What we can now refuse is even the proposal that brings us here the Liberal Initiative. We're against the individual hourly bank, and that's why we revoked it. This is not an isolated measure, because for us, workers are even the weakest part of the labour relationship. The Labour Code exists to protect these workers. We do not have a neutral view of the world of work, we understand that we need a legislative vision that promotes the rights of workers, that promotes the dignity of work, and that is what we are going to continue to do.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u226	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u227	That is why the Socialist Party is working, and that is where we are going to pursue, with fairer, more dignified and more equal labour policies. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u228	Mr João Pinho de Almeida, from the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, now has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u229	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have this debate in the context of a statement made today by a Minister of the Socialist Government, who was proud to say that the increase in the minimum wage will not have any counterpart to the employers. That is a phrase that, in the context of the crisis in which we live, could be dictated by a minister of propaganda; by a minister of the economy could not be sure. The economy needs employers, it needs private initiative — despite all the plans that the Socialist Party seems to deny this reality — so that people have their jobs and have properly valued working conditions. Therefore, this balance, which we all say to defend, is possible only if, indeed, we realize that, if there are no businesses and no jobs, it will not be possible to defend the working conditions that you here defend so many times and that in many cases they are totally right. We need to create conditions for people to live like this, and that is the part that you ignore. I have heard today, for example, from the Green Paper on Labour Relations. All right! What does this Green Paper say about the hourly bank? Read on page 341 : « The individual hour bank can be created in the interests of workers to facilitate the reconciliation of professional activity with family life ». So, after all, does the Green Paper say or doesn't it? Oh, my God! Attention, what's said here is obvious! It is obvious that an hourly bank can be created and can function in favour of workers, as if taxed, could effectively harm workers. It turns out that what was said by the leftmost benches is indeed impossible. The leftmost benches told us the following: « The workers are damaged by a bank of hours which is imposed by agreement. » You will have to explain what is an imposition by agreement. They will have to explain, first, what is an imposition by agreement for then we will have the discussion. It's just that imposition on agreement never existed! What you can say, and that is questionable, is whether the rules of the hour banks, such as time limits, accumulation limits, time for rest, are balanced or not. It is that if the scale is balanced and if we give freedom to employers and workers to, within a balanced scale, be able to choose the best option, we will be in favour of employment, we will be in favour of reconciling with family life, we will be in favour of defending the living conditions of these people. That, yes, is our responsibility: to define the ballast well. As has already been said, the current situation derives from an agreement in social consultation. We believe that any change to this reality must depend on a new agreement in social consultation. this would depend on a vote of the CDS in the overall final vote. Of course, we generally vote according to what is our conviction, and our conviction is that not only does it make sense to remove the hour bank in terms of what currently exists in the law, but what would make sense would be to restore the individual hour bank.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u230	Mr. Deputies, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u231	I shall conclude by saying the following: look at the rate of job recovery at the end of the PSD/CDS government legislature and the rate of job recovery that you propose in the resilience plan.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u232	Mr...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u233	They will understand the effectiveness of labour law in job recovery and in what effectively interests people. Thank you very much for your tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u234	You now have the floor for a second speech, Mr José Moura Soeiro, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u235	Mr. President, it is not surprising that the CDS and the Liberal Initiative here defend the individual hourly bank,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u236	And the Green Paper!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u237	... just as it is not surprising that the PSD defended the work review that the Government did in 2019, because this work review was really viable by the right hand, had the agreement of the bosses and had the opposition of the left in 2019, when it was voted here in this Parliament. [[That's not true!]] [[That's not true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u238	But what we can't accept is the idea that we didn't have time to know its impact, because the impact of these changes, particularly with regard to the time frame and the group time frame by referendum, was a blockade of collective bargaining... [[Protests from PSD and CDS-PP Members.]] ...and it was attempting to circumvent collective bargaining, through referendums organized according to the bosses, to impose the hour bank. In fact, Mr. Member of the Socialist Party, without confidentiality and without monitoring of the Act itself. The group-hour bank per referendum is an absolutely perverse measure. I just wanted to finish with a comment on the Socialist Party's bench. We will have time to discuss telework and its regulation, but what is being discussed here today is the group hour bank and individual adaptability and are the cuts that PSD and CDS have introduced into the Labour Law to cut by half the increase in additional work. On these cuts on the right, which remain in labour law, the Socialist Party said nothing, but silence is never neutral. What I wanted to know is whether the Socialist Party would maintain this attachment to the inheritance of the troika, because, in fact, if it does not believe in the austerity solutions on the right, it was bound to have already been released.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u239	Mr. Deputies, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u240	The question we are asking is whether this time the Socialist Party will vote again for the maintenance of the cuts on the right in labour law and for the payment of additional work. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u241	For the end of this debate, on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u242	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At the end of this discussion, I will leave some comments. Mrs Lina Lopes spoke a lot about legislative stability. When the honourable Member speaks in legislative stability, workers hear « continued working days of 12, 14 and 16 hours daily ». [[Protests from PSD and CDS-PP Members.]] When the honourable Member speaks of legislative stability, the workers hear « continuation of the distance from the follow-up to children », because this is the reality that workers live every day, Mrs. That is why this reality needs to be answered. What workers feel is also the continuation of irregular schedules, Mrs Deputies. And it is this reality that needs to be answered, too. Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro, as much as the PS could have done, by repealing an extended set of serious labour standards, eliminating the lapse of collective bargaining and restating the principle of the most favourable treatment, and the harm that the PS has done in the last amendment to the Labour Code, introducing a set of elements that have worsened labour legislation, is a much longer list than the one Mr has presented here and which, in fact, causes us much more concerns and which has a very negative translation into the lives of workers every day. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the hour bank does not pay accounts at the end of the month, does not pay the light, does not pay the water, does not pay the housing. The hour bank doesn't put food on the workers' families' table. It's time for the workers to get rid of the boss.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u243	What a fool!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u244	That's what we're talking about, and we need to end this time of boredom for the boss.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u245	Is unemployment better? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u246	It's just, sirs. Members, if extraordinary hours continue, if extraordinary hours are often daily in the lives of workers, they are not extraordinary, they are permanent needs. So there must be more hiring of workers for that company, instead of putting more hours of work on the back of the workers — hours of work, hours of rest, hours for the family, hours for the culture, time for living and hours for workers in our country. It is in this sense that we will continue to fight, as we also struggle with this proposal here. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u247	We are thus finishing the last point in our agenda. I call on Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha to inform the House of the entry of some legislative initiatives. Please, Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u248	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I would like to inform you that they have entered the Bureau and have been admitted, the following legislative initiatives: Proposal for a Law No 62 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ), which drops to 1. the Commission, and draft resolutions Nos 724 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) and 725 / XIV / 2. a (PEV). That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-15.u249	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary of the Bureau. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow the plenary will meet at 9 a.m. We therefore call on the heads of the parliamentary groups to inform all of you about this. Members and all Members. under Article 72. the Rules of Procedure, we will begin with an urgent debate required by the PSD Parliamentary Group, on the theme « current economic and social situation in Fátima, council of Ourem ». We will continue with the second item on the agenda, which consists in the general debate of Bill 512 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — Measures to recover the activity of medical boards of assessment of disabilities, together with the Resolution Project No 321 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government comply with the Ombudsman's recommendations to eliminate significant delays in issuing medical certificates of multi-use disability and also with, in general, Bill 538 / XIV / 2. a (NAP) — Ensures the effective response of medical boards' activity of assessment of disabilities and primary health care in epidemiological situations caused by COVID-19 and 541 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Transitional arrangements for issuing multi-purpose medical certificates of incapacity. of the third point is the joint assessment of Resolution Projects Nos 600 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Mobile market and technology introduction 5G, 590 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — For a public and universal telecommunications service in Portugal : 5G, opportunity to change course, 632 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Recommendations to the Government and ANACOM arising from the implementation of 5G networks, particularly in low-density territories and 645 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — By a sector of public and universal telecommunications in Portugal. At the fourth point we will have the debate of draft resolution No 649 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government adopt the procedures to ensure that the crime of ecocidal crime is enshrined in the list of crimes provided for in the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court. The fifth point consists of the joint discussion, in general, of Bill Nos 396 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Strengthens transparency in accession contracts (Other Decree-Law No 446 / 85 of 25 October ) and 532 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ) — Strengthens transparency and the effects of the prohibition of general clauses on accession contracts ( 4 ). the amendment to the Legal Regime of General Contract Clauses). of the sixth item on our agenda is the evaluation of the Report on the Progress of Equality between Women and Men at Work, Employment and Vocational Training - 2019. Finally, on the seventh and final point, the vote will take place. All Members and all Members. Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Bureau, I thank you for your cooperation in this session and I wish to continue on a good day. The session is closed. See you tomorrow. [[It was 18 hours and 13 minutes.]]
