ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists. The session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 8 minutes.]] Before we begin today's agenda, I will give the floor to the Secretary of the Bureau, Maria da Luz Rosinha, who has several important information to give you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members, on the resumption of the term of office of Mr Bruno Coimbra ( PSD ), elected by the electoral circle of Aveiro, The opinion is that the term of office of the Member concerned should be accepted as the legal requirements have been met.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u3	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously, registering the absence of the CH and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] You may proceed, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I announce the withdrawal by Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, of draft resolution No 522 / XIV / 1. a ( IL) — The suspension of the appointment of the new Governor of the Banco de Portugal until the completion of the current legislative process in the Assembly of the Republic, which had meanwhile fallen to 5. the Commission. I also announce the expiry of the procedure relating to the assessment of Decree-Law No. 23 / 2020 of 22 May—Sets the rules for the conclusion of management partnership contracts in the field of health[ Parliamentary assessments No. 16 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) and 19 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ). The amendments have therefore expired. I'm done, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u5	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, let us begin the first point on our agenda today, which consists of the debate on the priorities of the Presidency of the Council of the European Union, as provided for in Article 4(1) ( b ). the Act on the Monitoring, Evaluation and Pronunciation by the Assembly of the Republic in the framework of the construction process of the European Union ( Law No 43 / 2006 of 25 August, as amended by Law No 21 / 2012 of 17 May, and Law No 18 / 2018 of 2 May ) and on the annual report, sent by the Government, on the participation of Portugal in the construction process of the European Union, in accordance with Article 4(1) ( b ). Article 5 ( 4 ) and ( 4 ). the Act on the Monitoring, Evaluation and Pronunciation by the Assembly of the Republic in the framework of the European Union construction process ( Law No 43 / 2006 of 25 August, amended by Law No 21 / 2012 of 17 May, and Law No 18 / 2018 of 2 May ), together with Draft Resolution No 556 / XIV / 1. a ( Committee on European Affairs) — Assessment of the Report on Portugal in the European Union, 2019, and 566 / XIV / 1. a ( Committee on European Affairs) — Adoption by the Assembly of European initiatives considered as a priority for scrutiny under the European Commission's 2020 work programme. To open this debate, I have the floor of Mr. Minister of State and Foreign Affairs Augusto Santos Silva, who I take advantage of to greet. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It began on 1 July with the German Presidency, the trio of presidencies of the Council of the European Union, in which Portugal falls. The Trio Programme is known and it was very easy to draw it up, such as the convergence of views between Germany, Portugal and Slovenia, which will take place in this trio of presidencies. This Trio Program can be summarized in a few words. First of all, pursue the objectives, the priorities that have been set by European leaders in the Strategic Agenda 2019 - 2024. What are those priorities? Firstly, to ensure the transition to the digital economy, the processes of digital transformation of European economies; secondly, to promote the energy transition, essential for the decarbonization of these economies; thirdly, to ensure European priority and leadership in climate action, both domestically and globally; and fourthly, to value and affirm the position of the European Union as a global actor, an indispensable actor for today's large multilateral agendas. However, these priorities continue and are increasingly present, but the pandemic crisis adds other priorities to them, without putting them at risk. And these priorities result from lessons learned from the pandemic crisis, lessons from the need to strengthen social systems and, in particular, health services—and from there the European Commission's proposal to launch for the first time in the history of the Union a common programme on health—; lessons in terms of the need to bring closer to Europe the global chains of production and supply of public goods that we all in Europe consider essential; and the need to re-industrialise Europe more, as we say increasingly, Europe's economic sovereignty. And the last characteristic feature of the Trio programme of presidencies is to do this, to continue strategic priorities, to draw lessons from the crisis with the sense of urgency in action. The European Union has been greatly affected by the pandemic, its economic consequences are devastating to the economies of all Member States and, therefore, the sense of urgency in action, the awareness that we must quickly start a process of economic and social recovery at European level, preserving and safeguarding the internal market and creating the necessary financial means for Member States to be able to carry out their investments and irreversible reforms, this sense of urgency marks the Trio Programme. That is why Germany has said that its presidency will have priorities in small, clear numbers in the essential points. First priority: to conclude the agreement as quickly as possible on the next multiannual financial framework ( FIF ) and the recovery plan; to conclude the agreement on the multiannual budget of the European Union for the next seven years; and at the same time to the next generation programme, i.e. an immediate implementation programme to promote the economic and social recovery of the Union. So look for that agreement already desirable in July. The next European Council will be an essential framework in this demand for agreement. Second essential priority of the European Presidency: to promote the conclusion of negotiations between the United Kingdom and the European Union with an agreement regulating the future relationship between them. Third priority: the rule of law. Next October the European Commission will publish the first report on the rule of law and the German Presidency insists on the need for us to initiate interparate political dialogues involving all of us on the rule of law, which is indeed a condition of belonging to the Union. Fourth priority: the new Migration and Asylum Pact, which the European Commission says will not be proposed until the negotiation of the PFF and the Next Generation programme is concluded. These are the essential priorities of the German Presidency and they are well married to their other great responsibility, which is to formally launch the conference on the future of Europe. We now have the positions of the European Parliament, the European Commission and the European Council on what the conference should be about the future of Europe — what its objectives, its nature and its structure — and therefore we hope that the three institutions will quickly reach agreement so that the conference can be launched. The Portuguese Presidency programme, which will succeed the German Presidency, fits perfectly both the Trio programme and the German Presidency programme. We hope that when we start our presidency, the QFP will be approved and, therefore, if we implement the new multiannual financial framework, a very great responsibility for us. We also hope that the negotiations with the United Kingdom have been brought to a successful conclusion and that this new relationship between the European Union and the United Kingdom will be implemented for us as close as possible. We hope that the debate on migration will be one of the most important debates of our Presidency and we believe we have arguments to make a positive contribution to this debate and to its outcome in favour of Europe, for migration, to the responsibilities of international law and international humanitarian law that Europe has. And we will develop the work of the conference on the future of Europe and we will add our own brand, which is the affirmation of the social dimension of the European Union. The European social model is the great resource that Europe has to successfully make the digital transition, energy transition, climate action, but also to strengthen its role in the world, a leadership role in many areas for multilateralism and the common response to common problems and the common defence of goods that are also common. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u7	For an intervention by the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Capoulas Santos has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u8	Mr President, Mr Minister of State and Foreign Affairs, Mr Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, Mrs and Mrs. Members: I shall speak on the programme of the German Presidency of the Council of the European Union. My colleague, Isabel Oneto, will speak later on the annual report on the participation of the Portuguese Presidency in the European construction process, which is the other issue on our agenda. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We live in the European Union a historic moment of enormous transcendence, hardly comparable to anyone else over the 70 years that separate us from the visionary statement by Robert Schumann, delivered in Quai d'Orsay, in 1950. It was ironic of the fate of the Council's leadership in short but decisive Germany, the time frame for the second half of 2020, which immediately preceded the Portuguese Presidency of the Council. That is why it is no wonder, as the Minister has just mentioned, that the great convergence of objectives between the Trio Programme, presented on 9 June, the statement by the Presidents of the German, Portuguese and Slovenian parliaments, signed solemnly on 29 June and the German Presidency programme, which we are discussing today both in the immediate and short-term objectives and in the longer term view expressed in it. It teaches us history that times of crisis are also unique opportunities for rebirth and reconciliation for the beginning of new periods of peace and prosperity. It is in this spirit that we are facing the current difficulties and seeking adequate answers at national and European levels. In the short term, controlling and overcoming the epidemic and relaunching the economy are the priorities for which there is no plan B, as there are no other options for the future development model that do not rely on the rule of law's primacy and improvement, sustainability, all its aspects, innovation, security and strengthening of Europe in global theatre. The problem is therefore not in the objectives and lines of strategic guidance that we generally share, but in the form of realisation, taking into account the state of anemia that has reached the European project and the contradictions that still prevail within it. In recent days we have seen, sadly, the unfortunate inability of the European Union to decide together such simple things as the harmonisation of rules for the reopening of internal borders. from that point on the importance that the German Presidency and the Council, already next week, represent for the relaunching of the European project and for the decision-making that is required to respond urgently to the emergency we are facing. We are all aware of the difficulties that will still need to be overcome in order to reach a fair and balanced agreement where 27 can be revised. Any delay will have extremely negative consequences, even more serious if it is associated with a failure in the UK exit agreement, which will have to be concluded by the end of October. I would therefore like to convey to you, Mr Minister, that, in view of the context that I have just described, as far as possible, its perspective on the implementation of the German Presidency's programme is concerned and, because it is an indisputable issue, what its real expectations for the next week's Council, taking into account the bilateral contacts that the Portuguese Government has been developing and that the recent passages by Lisbon of the Spanish and Italian Prime Ministers have been the most visible face. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u9	Even in the time available to the Socialist Party, Mrs Isabel Oneto has the floor for an intervention. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u10	Mr President, Mr Minister of State and Foreign Affairs, Mr Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, Mrs and Mrs. Members: As rapporteur of the report that the Government sent to the Assembly of the Republic on its participation in the European project in 2019, here are some considerations on this report. And by listing the multiple actions of the Portuguese Government, I realized that I would not have time to talk about anything, I would only reach the middle of what was Portugal's participation in the European Union in 2019. I believe that by reading the report, what I can conclude, and that the Socialist Party concludes, the Portuguese Government has been able to gain credibility from its partners, from the other Member States. Today, Portugal has its own place in the European Union, Portugal has decisively influenced the strategic agenda which Mr. Minister of State and Foreign Affairs mentioned here, has influenced the agenda of the European Union, and has managed to mobilize 17 Member States to say ‘no’ to what a number of European Union countries wanted in relation to the next multiannual financial framework...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u11	And it's all the same!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u12	...and take a path that has allowed us to arrive at the start of negotiations in which we are today. Therefore, Minister of State and Foreign Affairs, what we can conclude is that, with the values that Portugal has defended with the European Union, which are the values that are in our Constitution of April and the founding values of the European Union, there is no loss of sovereignty, there is a strengthening of our sovereignty, through our credibility and our defence of our views in the European Union. The German Presidency will certainly be very important for the future of Europe, but Portugal will start its Presidency in 2021 in a new era, if possible, with the multi-annual financial framework, with the responsibility for implementing the recovery plan, with the challenge of the European agenda, the digital transition, the climate transition and, above all, as well as well mentioned, bearing in mind the social dimension and the European social model. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u13	Mrs Isabel Meireles of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u14	Mr President, H.E. Minister of State and Foreign Affairs, Mr. Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, Dear Members: I begin with the priorities of the rotating presidency of the Council of the European Union, which, as we know, will be occupied by Germany, which we have been fortunate to hear described in the Committee on European Affairs by the German Ambassador in Portugal. And we have found that the main ambition of this German Presidency is, without a doubt, to complete the negotiations of the multiannual financial framework and the recovery fund, and we also know that the great difficulty is the four 'frugal' states. We know that the most incisive in these matters is the Dutch Prime Minister — now from the Netherlands — Mark Rutte, with whom our Prime Minister has a cordial relationship and with whom he will meet before the next European Council, and by chance I held a statement by Mark Rutte, in which he said there is a package of EUR 540 billion in credits approved by the Eurogroup and so far there has not been a single euro which was spent. My questions therefore concern how the Government of Portugal will respond to the demand, particularly from the Netherlands, firstly that if we use financial aid, we must make economic reforms; secondly, the countries of the South have to provide a clear justification for what they will do with money borrowed; thirdly, any aid from the North necessarily means reforms from the South. I recall that in this European Council, as the German Ambassador said, we all have a gun pointed at the head, because there is the rule of unanimity and even the 'frugal' countries, in order to be able to give concessions, have to give account to their electorate and also to the national parliaments. But even if there is white smoke, the Socialist European Member Margarida Marques said that, most likely, the money will only come in 2022. Let us say that we are worried because, if so, families, businesses and the country itself will go bankrupt before the money arrives. However, even if this scenario does not occur, and we hope that it will not, the Government will have until April to present plans for the implementation of the money and, of course, the speed of transfers will depend on the speed at which the plans and reforms are presented. Worse: if we shorten the recovery plan of the four to three years, then the pressure will be enormous and we will have a problem of absorption of the funds, which, I remember, are estimated at 19 million euros a day.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u15	One billion!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u16	The same reasoning applies to cohesion funds, the current multiannual financial framework and future multiannual financial framework. Portugal will therefore have to double its ability to implement funds in order to implement the entire financial envelope to which it is intended and will have to combat the crisis and the structural blockades that have prevented us from growing sustainably. So that my questions in this area are as follows: does the government know what it will do with the money? Do you already have a strategic vision for your application? Does it have the capacity to transform this strategy into concrete programs, projects and investments in a short period of time? In the face of all this titanic work, do we have civil servants and staff qualified for these functions? And finally, do we have a regulatory environment and control capacity to apply these funds and, of course, to avoid fraud? As for the annual report sent by the Government on Portugal's participation in the construction process of the European Union, it is very descriptive, without great boldness in the capture of reality, but here I leave two brief notes in relation to it, which is generally positive. The first note has to do with a set of recommendations from the European Commission for Portugal, concerning the effectiveness of administrative and tax courts, and rightly because there has been no reform of fiscal justice for more than 30 years. The laxity of justice is intolerable and, moreover, we are tired of a 'gangster state', a state that first fires on the taxpayers' purse and then asks itself. I have no time to say anything else about this, so I wish only the Government, the Minister of State and Foreign Affairs and the Prime Minister the greatest success for the next European Council. These are the wishes of the PSD Parliamentary Group because our Europe is also our oxygen and we only notice its absence when we need it. Finally, in conclusion, solidarity must be the word-step in order not to be a country orbiting its own loneliness. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u17	It is the turn of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, so Mrs Fabíola Cardoso has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u18	Mr President, Mr Minister of State and Foreign Affairs, Mr Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, Mrs and Mrs. Members: There are many challenges facing those who have the responsibility to preside over the European Council in the coming semesters. The new reality we face thus demands it. Germany will have to address the consequences of the pandemic crisis by obtaining the approval of the instruments to overcome this emergency and leading to European recovery, North, South and East. However, Germany will also have to do so by promoting a sustainable development model, from the outset, on economic sustainability, ensuring the rapid approval of a QFP and a recovery plan with sufficient amounts to deal with the disaster, doing so in good time and making these funds available in a regionalized and unburocratized way, so that they can be truly accessible to small businesses, small producers, such as, for example, family farming in our country. This development model should also be focused on environmental sustainability, not delaying but reinforcing the strategic objectives of systemic ecological decarbonization and transition, and social sustainability, ensuring cohesion and reduction of inequalities and discrimination. For this reason the Left Block again expresses its concern at the measures which are now beginning to be more clearly outlined and, above all, with the consequences of these measures for the future of the country and the Union.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u19	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u20	The priorities presented by the German Government are not clear on the financing of the new funds. For now, the Commission will go to the market for us, but then what? Oh, my God! We need a new approach to sources of funding so as to prevent the countries of the South from paying again with austerity measures. We need our own funds. We can't push the problems forward. Taxation of financial transactions and digital giants are examples of measures that lead to social justice and balance the discussion between the North and the South. Is the Portuguese Government, Minister, prepared to defend tax justice and the creation of own funds to ensure that there will not be a new wave of austerity? Will this government have the courage to prevent solutions that increase Portuguese public debt? Will you defend the repeal of the treaties that suffocate countries? It will lead to the strengthening of public systems, particularly health—yes! — but also of education and social support? The programme presented by Germany also does not clarify another aspect that we consider to be fundamental: the link between financing and maintaining the rule of law. Countries that restrict the freedom of their people every day, restrict the power of their democratic institutions, attack freedom of expression, cannot go unpunished from this process. It is necessary to stop the populism of anti-democratic authoritarianisms.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u21	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u22	Is the Portuguese Government prepared to defend the association of compliance with the rule of law with the allocation of funds to the Member States? In conclusion, the question of TAP is currently inseparable from European decisions. The support framework that has been authorised to TAP demonstrates the errors of privatization and is accompanied by an unacceptable company restructuring plan, which threatens to refer TAP to a purely regional role. Will the Portuguese Government contradict this choice of the European Commission by truly defending the national interest? We need courage, courage to prepare Europe for a next generation of young people, but without mortgageting on their future. It is this courage that the Left Block would like to expect from the German Presidency and which certainly demands from the Portuguese Government. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u23	The Parliamentary Group of the CFP is followed, and Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u24	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members : in this debate on the priorities of the Presidency of the Council and Portugal's participation in the construction process of the European Union, the fundamental axes of the political lines in both areas are associated with the criteria of the European Semester, an ambitious plan of reforms, an even greater deepening of the single market, the privatization and concentration of public services, the re-arrangement of production chains and the financing of large projects linked to the so-called 'digitisation' and the instrumentalization of environmental issues, aligned with the interests of large capital, with new rows of capitalist accumulation and the priorities of major powers. Such steps, to be implemented, would mean additional attacks on economic sovereignty and a severe abdication of tax revenues, an increase in the indebtedness of the country, an even greater external dependence, constraints and additional taxes and a deepening of the asymmetries and divergences that characterize the process of capitalist integration. This framework and the measures under discussion — including the political and ideological operation of the conference on the future of Europe — place an even greater emphasis on the need to reject the European Union's impositions and conditionalisms and to release the country from submission to the euro, in a joint manner, with the renegotiation of public debt. The situation in Europe calls for a profound reflection on the real causes of unemployment, poverty, increasing social inequalities, increasing asymmetries between countries, growth in extreme right, nationalism, racism, xenophobia, war, terrorism, mass migration. Do not make this question and insist on the paths that have led Europe to this point — the path of European capitalist integration — is to allow the continuation of a course that could have dramatic consequences for all the peoples of Europe. But that's not inevitable. The internationalisation of the economy, the growing international division of labour, interdependence and cooperation between States and integration processes are not unique paths of meaning. Depending on the options that prevail, such processes can serve monopolies or can serve peoples. Every leap in capitalist integration, every deepening, every enlargement, deepens the inseparable contradictions of the class nature of this process and its economic and political objective. Insanable contradictions, how insanable are the contradictions of the capitalist system. The process of substantial capitalist integration in the European Union has already demonstrated, and continues to demonstrate, that it is not reformable. Europe needs to confront and break with the centralization and concentration of capital in large monopolies and power in supranational institutions dominated by the power directory commanded by Germany. Europe needs to reject the blackmail of this false dilemma: either the European Union of great capital and great powers or the extreme right. Europe needs to confront and break with the process of capitalist integration. That's the alternative way. Saving Europe from the dangers it faces requires the intensification of the struggle for another cooperation project, for a Europe of workers and peoples. It calls for the firm defence of sovereignty, democracy, rights, to open alternative ways, for the future, for justice, for progress and for peace. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u25	Mr João Pinho de Almeida, from the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, now has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u26	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: in this debate, the first reference must, of course, be to the context in which the same is done. We are doing this debate on the eve of being discussed here in the Assembly of the Republic with a view to reducing the parliamentary scrutiny of the European process. I think we have to point out that what Parliament can do tomorrow is exactly the opposite of what most parliaments in the other countries of the Union are doing. What we are doing here in the Portuguese Parliament is a debate before the European Council in which the Heads of State and Heads of Government are present — I would say it is the minimum. There are several parliaments which are already holding debates before each Council in any of its formations. In other words, when the Councils meet sectorally to discuss the issues of each of these sectors, the specialized committees of the national parliaments listen to the Minister of the Pasta, they discuss with the Minister of the Pasta what the position of the Country should be. And what does Portugal do? Stop discussing what's essential. This has a lot to do with our participation in the Union. We cannot complain that we have a public opinion and a population that has little concern about European issues when its representatives, who are we, instead of deepening the scrutiny of the debate and the European process, diminish this scrutiny. I believe that this reflection is very important and that it is still time to be made, so that we do not make a crucial mistake in what is the national Parliament's scrutiny of the European process. There are structural and cyclical issues that we have to discuss here. In the context of the matter, we will have a very important Council and there are many matters still open. It is not just to know if what we are going to receive are grants or loans and we will be satisfied if they are more subsidies than loans. As Mr President of Germany said yesterday in one case or another, they will have to be paid. Money won't be born from the ground whether it's a grant, whether it's a loan. So we need to know several things. First, the recovery fund was created with special resources because there is a special need. The first question that needs to be clarified is this: has the Government of Portugal already taken the lead in finding out whether what we need most because of the pandemic is compensated for what we will receive the most from the recovery fund? I've never seen those accounts. With regard to the multiannual financial framework, the Government of Portugal has already thought that, if we were against the same, before there was a recovery fund, we cannot now say that we are in favour when what is structural has not changed. Then, Minister for Foreign Affairs, there are key issues of the European Union's position. For example, and how do I end up, what does Portugal think of the relationship with China? What does Portugal think of the relationship between a bloc as is the European Union and a power, from a commercial point of view, as is China, either from the point of view of the Union's relationship, or from the point of view of the bilateral relationship of each country?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u27	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u28	I will finish, Mr. President. It is essential that we know Portugal's position on these issues and some protective trends within the European Union. What is the position of the Portuguese State on this matter? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u29	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr André Silva, of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u30	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Members: One of the great ideas that Portugal must defend at the next meeting of the European Council is precisely the need to speed up the agreement on the recovery fund so that these funds can reach the countries as soon as possible. In fact, we cannot fail to see with concern that, in view of the methodology proposed by the European Commission, the money of the Recovery and Resilience Mechanism, where there is a total of EUR 310 billion, ultimately lost, can only reach our country in 2022. This methodology clearly does not respond to those that are the needs of countries at the moment and we hope that, in fact, next week's summit will be able to speed up the process. But the NAP is also concerned about the need to start preparing the projects to be submitted to the Commission from now on. at this time, the Government should already be working, for example, to ensure that the country had a risk atlas of climate change which was the basis for State action at the level of land planning and the definition of priority public investment. Only in this way, from our point of view, will it be possible to ensure that the investment that will be made with European money will be used to adapt the territory to the effects of climate change, in order to minimize, as far as possible, its impact on populations and territories. So, what I ask you is: what is plan B for the case of the process calendar not to be anticipated? Where is the preparation of national projects going? What are the main climate change projects? And is the government preparing the risk atlas for climate change or not? But since you are here to talk about European policy and recently Mr Prime Minister has been with the Spanish Prime Minister twice, I can't help but tell you about the time bomb that is the nuclear power plant in Almaraz, which should have shut down a long time ago. The Spanish State decided to extend the activity of this Central until 2028. Following that decision, the Minister for the Environment said that he would defend the achievement of an environmental assessment. However, on June 22 and 27, there were two incidents in both reactors, in areas where intervention needs had already been identified. So what I would like to ask you, Minister, is, in the face of the June incidents, what is the Government doing to ensure that a cross-border environmental impact assessment is carried out on the extension of the exploitation of the Almaraz Nuclear Central until 2028? What challenges is the government developing for the Central to be closed? Did the Minister and the Prime Minister address this matter with the Spanish Prime Minister at the two recent meetings they had with him? [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u31	Mr José Luís Ferreira, of the Greens Ecological Party, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u32	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in this debate we will devote one minute to the report and another minute to the report. As far as the report is concerned, I would like to say that the Greens note that the issue of carbon neutrality by 2050 has been assumed as an objective to be achieved, but we are afraid that the measures for this objective will continue to be postponed and referred back to 2049 because at that time it will be irremediably late. We also note the presentation of the European Ecological Pact, which seeks to turn climate and environmental challenges into opportunities, providing a fair and inclusive transition for all, but what we are going to expect is that this transition is even fair and inclusive for all and that, when it comes to opportunities, we avoid the mistake that was made when the fight against climate change was turned into a business opportunity, with the carbon market. On what is not included in the report, more specifically in the chapter on External Relations, we still do not see any reference to a recommendation to the Government made by this House in 2015, in addition, with the favourable votes of all the banks. We refer to the recognition of the State of Palestine. In view of what we are seeing in recent days, it is important to recall the content of this document, in particular its first point: « The Assembly of the Republic recommends that the Government, in coordination with the European Union, recognize the State of Palestine as an independent and sovereign State in accordance with the principles established by international law ». However, the report says little more than finding that the European Union's relations with Israel and Palestine have continued to be a source of difficulty on the European agenda in the southern vicinity. That is, at a time when Israel threatens to attach Palestinian territories, violating decades of United Nations resolutions and the most basic rules of international law, the European Union pretends nothing is happening. This liability of the European Union is absolutely unacceptable for us and should put all the citizens of Europe to shame. [[Congrats from PCP MP Bruno Dias.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u33	You have the floor, Mr Ventura, for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u34	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I shall begin by referring to the speech of Mrs Isabel Oneto, who said that « Portugal has achieved in recent years and, above all, in recent months, to grow and sustain credibility with the European Union ». It is true, Mrs. Member. That is why, yesterday, Belgium, Finland and Scotland closed the air corridor with Portugal, joining the United Kingdom and more than 35 countries that closed borders with Portugal. That must be the credibility that Portugal has achieved in the fight against the pandemic! Today, the Minister for Foreign Affairs is here and it is not so much to us that he has to answer but to those millions of Portuguese outside who wonder why everyone closes our doors and we continue to open doors for everyone. It is a great question for the Minister for Foreign Affairs to answer. The same Minister for Foreign Affairs said yesterday that he championed discoordination in the European Union. So, Minister, what are we going to do to fight this discoordination? It is that everyone closes the doors to Portugal, from Romania or Bulgaria, and we continue to open doors for everyone, saying « come anyway, we do not care», and we do nothing to avoid it. Mr Minister, it is up to you, not me or anyone in this Parliament, to give a word of force to the Portuguese State, which does not have it at the moment. I also ask you about the multiannual financial framework whether or not there will be cuts in the common agricultural policy. It's just that you've heard Antonio Costa saying you don't know, you don't know how it's gonna be or how it's gonna run. Are we going to have cuts in cohesion policies and in the common agricultural policy? Finally, to conclude Mr President, I would just like to ask the Minister the following: yesterday, Prime Minister Antonio Costa said that we were close to an agreement; today, the President of the European Council says that there is a lot left to come to an agreement. My lords, let's see if we understand each other. Either we're close to an agreement or we're not close to an agreement!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u35	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u36	I will finish, Mr. President. It is important for the Minister for Foreign Affairs to tell us who is right, whether he is the Prime Minister of Portugal or the President of the European Council, because there are enough lies in this struggle against the pandemic.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u37	He was very busy yesterday, he couldn't go to the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u38	Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u39	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Members: On the strategic agenda drawn up by the trio de presidentes — Germany, Portugal and Slovenia — the following can be read with satisfaction: « European policy must be shaped in such a way as to embody our societal values, promote inclusiveness and remain compatible with our way of life ». I repeat, «with our way of life». The priorities announced here today are important for Europe's affirmation as a space for progress and development but nothing will do if we do not take care of producing our European way of life, our love for individual freedom, human rights and tolerance. That is exactly why I want to stress today, here, the geo-strategic importance of European foreign policy. It is that the defence of our way of life requires firmness in how Portugal and the European Union relate to regimes that do not respect human rights or the values of liberal democracy. And the best example of this need for firmness is the relationship with China's communist regime. It is not the only regime whose actions and ambitions can endanger our European way of life, but it is certainly the most dangerous, and only the most distracted, or then the convivients, may not recognize the recent aggression and rejection of the Chinese communist regime. The dead in the Galdwan Valley, at the border with India, the daily skirmishes in the South China Sea, the first detained under the new security law in Hong Kong and the massive computer attack on Australia's public services are there to testify to China's infinite ambition. The Chinese communist regime has decided definitely that it prefers to be feared to be respected. The Liberal Initiative has been alone in alerting this danger. So we will continue if it has to be but it was good for other political forces to open their eyes to the real risk we face. [[Protests by PCP MP Bruno Dias.]] The European Union seems, fortunately, to be more attentive than the generality of this House and it is good that at the EU-China Summit 15 days ago Europe has been firm in condemning the democratic scourge of the security law in Hong Kong, which has required transparency regarding state aid in China and the transfer of technology and that it has warned that it would not tolerate constant misinformation campaigns and frequent cyberattacks originating in China. That is why we are asking again today what has not been answered by the Prime Minister and the Government at the last time: does the Portuguese Government share these European concerns and the positions already taken and will therefore be firm in defending the European way of life? And what concrete measures will it take to ensure that Macau does not have the same fate as Hong Kong?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u40	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u41	I shall conclude by saying this: before an authoritarian communist China and the United States of America, it is up to Europe to be the beacon of freedom in the world and Portugal, during its presidency, to do everything so that the light of freedom illuminates the hope of those who aspire to a better world.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u42	To close the debate, you have the floor for an intervention, Mr Minister of State and Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u43	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I should like to begin by thanking the words of encouragement that have been addressed to the Government and also the suggestions, proposals and appeals for attention which have been made during this very important debate and which greatly enriches our conditions for not only monitoring Portuguese participation in the European construction process as a follow-up to the work of the German Presidency, but also, more immediately, for preparing a very important European Council, because it will have on the table the question of whether or not we have reached an agreement on what will regulate our budgetary capacity over the next seven years and our financial capacity to coordinate the recovery of the European economy. I wanted to start by saying that what is at issue here is not a question of solidarity nor is it a question of the North to help the South or the South to need the help of the North. What is at stake here is the preservation of the internal market; what is at stake here is the functioning of the European economy; what is at stake here is Europe's sovereignty in matters as essential as the provision of services essential to its citizens, such as the provision of public goods, which we all consider critical, as well as a process of autonomy in the face of global value chains, which basically passes through the process of reindustrializing the European economy. So it is not a question of whether we want to help each other and under what conditions, it is a question of knowing that we are all involved in the same process of recovery of an economy, which is global and that we want it to be global. The main issue in the adoption of the multiannual financial framework and the recovery fund for the Next Generation programme is seven key points. The first point concerns the volume of financial resources that we have managed to mobilise; the second point concerns the balance, in these resources, between the resources that are transferred as grants and the resources that are provided as loans; the third point is the key to the allocation of resources by the different Member States and their regions; the fourth critical point is the period for the implementation of national recovery programmes benefiting from the funds of the Next Generation programme; the fifth point concerns the conditions for access to the funds available; the sixth point is related to the governance of the programme; and the seventh point is related to the conditions for payment of the loan that the European Union, as such, on our behalf and with our guarantee, will make on the markets. We believe that the proposal put forward by the European Commission, following the Franco-German declaration and also very inspired by Portuguese proposals, including the budgetary instrument for competitiveness and convergence - as Mrs Isabel Oneto pointed out - has seen the mark of Portuguese influence on the European agenda in recent years - is very balanced at all these points.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u44	Finally!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u45	And this proposal enables us to respond to several of the doubts put by the honourable Members and by the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen. First question: how are we going to pay this loan? Obviously, the European Commission will raise money from the markets in the form of a loan. Doing so together, the 27, we will achieve conditions of maturity, interest and moratorium of payment as never one of us would achieve alone. [[P.S.'s applause.]] How do we pay after that moratorium? In two ways or, better, with a combination of these two ways: through increased national contributions or through new own resources. Portugal is in favour of new EU own resources, as such.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u46	European taxes!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u47	There are forms of taxation that mean guiding the European economy towards the green transition and which mean disbursing national taxpayers.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u48	Disengage? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u49	Those who say they do not accept new European resources, what they are saying is that they would prefer it to be the national taxpayers to pay. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It's not worth hiding that fact.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u50	We're not hiding, we're here!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u51	Or if they want new EU own resources as such to allow, in particular, to tax companies which today do not pay taxes in any European country,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u52	I've heard that conversation once!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u53	As I said, whether you want this or, then, what you want is the increase in national contributions, which, in turn, are supported by the taxpayers of each Member State.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u54	Both? Oh, my God! [[Protests by PCP MP Bruno Dias.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u55	With regard to the question of access to the funds, the follow-up to the decisions of the European Commission, the Eurogroup, and what is expected to be the decisions of the European Council, it is a sequence that can resolve any doubts that may exist from the point of view of the timing of access to the funds. It is that at present the funds of the SURE programme will be available, as soon as the Netherlands does its part in Parliament. And we have already said from Portugal what volume we will need under the SURE programme. When the Assembly of the Republic approved the Supplementary Budget, it approved the part relating to the National Budget and had the information available... [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Cecilia Meireles.]] ...to know how much we intend to use, from European funds, to pay the costs related to training, layoff and other costs of preserving the labour market and strengthening health services. We are ready for a programme, called REACH-EU ( Recovery Assistance for Cohesion and the Territories of Europe), to be implemented again in this semester, which will consist of the first available fund bag. And then we will have the multi-annual financial framework, whose implementation will begin on the first day of January 2021, so be approved by the European leaders, however. So there is no hiatus unless we fail in the agreement that it is necessary to obtain at European level. Finally, on matters relating to scrutiny, this is absolutely essential, but we have a framework of scrutiny that we build, which we call the European Semester, and which must be our framework for monitoring the implementation of the funds and for monitoring the implementation of programmes.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u56	He didn't answer anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u57	So this is not — and I am finishing, Mr President — of each country applying a single recipe, at least an austerity recipe, it is each country presenting its own investment and reform plan, in the first version, already in October — as Portugal will do — to negotiate with the European Commission,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u58	Be your own troika.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u59	... and then this programme is approved and monitored in the same way as we do in relation to the other national reform plans. There is no need to invent another mechanism when we have a process that we ourselves have created and with which we ourselves manage the application of funds. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u60	He didn't answer anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u61	We will move on to the second item of the agenda, with the discussion, in general, of Bill 456 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Extends the deadline for the holding by means of distance communication of meetings of local authorities and inter-municipal authorities, making the fifth amendment to Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March. To open the debate, you have the floor for an intervention, Mr Pedro Delgado Alves.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u62	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This legislative initiative is given some simplicity, in that it aims to restore an exceptional standard, designed in the context of the COVID-19 pandemic, which enabled local authorities and inter-municipal entities to hold, using videoconferencing, meetings of their deliberative bodies and executive bodies. Fundamentally, and then in Law No. 1 -A / 2020, where this matter was first laid down, it was about ensuring compliance with social distance measures and security in the holding of meetings of local authorities bodies, obviously also trying to ensure the necessary publicity of the meetings of these bodies. at first, the version which was approved lasted until 30 June of this year. However, in the face of the evolution of the pandemic, in the face of the situation that many municipalities in the country can still continue to discourage the presence of these meetings, either because the number of members is significant—for example, the Lisbon Municipal Assembly, to meet, either with the municipal deputies or with the other services, may sometimes need to place more than 100 people in the same room—or because some municipalities in the country have a large number of fregueries—for example, Barcelos, and so have municipal assemblies with a significant dimension, it seems to us to continue to use this mode to ensure peace, security and also the normal functioning of local authorities. It is important that, in the reading of the proposal, some differences should be underlined in relation to the regime which lasted until 30 June. On the one hand, it is clear that, when it is necessary to proceed to secret ballots, of course, the vote must be present, organizing the services of the assemblies or executives in order to ensure the safety of those who move to participate in these votes. On the other hand, it seeks to resolve the question of how to deal with the problems caused by the need for public participation in these meetings, clarifying that it may take place by credentialing people who register to participate remotely, through videoconferencing; allowing people to refer, prior to the meeting, to the intervention they would present, recording a video that would refer to the support services; or alternatively allowing municipalities or parishes to make their facilities available to people who, having no means of pre-recording, travel safely, also respecting the rules of distance, to the place where such recording may take place. In addition, and in the course of the opinions received by ANMP ( National Association of Portuguese Municipalities ) and ANAFRE ( National Association of Frequencies ), we recognize that there are some matters that may lack some improvement, in the field of specialty, in particular clarification that it is not a matter of suspending meetings which must be public but, rather, of taking measures to ensure that they work, that they ensure the rental of rooms, when the room is conditioned, and that they also ensure the advertising of meetings. We are well aware that the relative urgency of the matter exists, since the period of validity of the previous law ended on 30 June. With tomorrow's attempt to make the three votes at one moment, it was positive that all parliamentary groups wishing to accept these suggestions from ANMP and ANAFRE could, with the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, try to build a final text in time of entry into force of this diploma as soon as possible, since many municipalities await clarification from the Assembly of the Republic in order to be able to mark the meetings of their deliberative or executive bodies under this new regime and so that, by correcting themselves, improving themselves or improving the issues already contained in the law but which may not be fully clear, we can continue to respond to the authorities and to those who, in the exercise of their functions, necessarily have to meet, either by means of presence, or by means of video conferencing. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u63	Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u64	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Parliamentary Group of the Social Democratic Party has, in due course, accompanied the bill which has enshrined the possibility of holding meetings of local authorities and inter-municipal communities by means of distance communication. Admitting that, here and there, there may have been one or another abuse, objectively, there is no reason why we should not also follow this initiative, which aims to extend this possibility by the end of the year. Firstly, because, unfortunately, we are still in the COVID-19 period and not in the post-COVID-19 period, which means that the pandemic situation remains, so we must ensure that local authorities and inter-municipal communities continue to have mechanisms that enable them to maintain, as they have so far maintained, the full functioning of local democracy. Secondly, we note that this legislative initiative eliminates inadequacies left by the early drafting of the exceptional legal regime, such as the matters already referred to as public participation and secret voting. That said, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we would like to enhance and thank, once again, for the remarkable role Portuguese authors are playing in combating the pandemic and in mitigating its social and economic impacts. The autarchs are the best allies of the central power in this fight. We can trust them and we have the duty to help them. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u65	We can also help the autarchs in simple and basic aspects. Allow me, in conclusion of this intervention, to leave two examples of this simple and basic aid. First of all, reducing the brutality of reports that local authorities are obliged to make for the National Institute of Statistics and for the Directorate-General of Local Authorities in more than one electronic platform, repeating unnecessarily, I repeat, unnecessarily, information, which Mr President represents. Ladies and gentlemen, a real load of work for any Portuguese author. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u66	As an example, to put monitoring and coordination bodies with the participation of the authorities, such as the Financial Coordination Council or the Commission for the Monitoring of Decentralisation, which are in a state of apathy, lethargy and inaction of all, I repeat, inexcusable. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u67	Mr José Maria Cardoso, from the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u68	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On this bill, I would like to say that Article 3. the Law No 1 -A / 2020 established the possibility of holding, by means of distance communication, meetings of local authorities and inter-municipal entities until 30 June. The present bill, which even draws attention to the approach to that deadline—which has been overtaken by chance—is that it gives legal coverage to the extension of the same situation until December 31st. As we are only discussing this proposal today, which we are going to vote on tomorrow, which may or may not be approved and which, at best, is published only next week, asks ourselves: then, the meetings that have been held and which are taking place during this period were all present? It is that, if they went by means of distance communication, they do not have legal coverage, which certainly calls into question even the decisions taken. Weaving specific considerations to the project under consideration, I say the following : in Article 2. the, as regards the amendments proposed in both point 1 and point 2, invokes a condition which seems unnecessary to us at the moment, which is « provided that there are technical conditions for this effect » or « whenever technically feasible ». It is clear that, in enabling this possibility, the technical means indispensable to its effective realization must be ensured. Honestly, I do not think it is difficult to have technical means for municipal meetings and if, in the case of the parish, so happens, the chambers should provide means for this to happen. This condition must be assumed as compulsory in the name of transparency and public scrutiny. In addition, the Left Block argues that it should be added or considered a formulation that would ensure the maintenance of these recordings, in an online repository, for subsequent consultation and viewing. In point 3, on public intervention, we fully agree with the conditions of participation which are guaranteed, but on this point, taking into account a constant repair of the opinion of the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities, precisely in point 5, I ask, even in the form of clarification, the following : does this point refer to the need to prepare in the diploma the suspension of the obligation to hold public meetings or the reference is on the suspension of the compulsory presence of the public at the meetings? Point 4 of this draft law, by asking the question of the presence session when it is necessary to proceed by secret vote, provided that all the guidelines issued by the Directorate-General for Health are ensured, opens a precedent that seems to us to be able to be generalized. That is, provided that the conditions have been created and the rules laid down by the Directorate-General for Health have been followed, the meetings of local authorities' bodies should preferably take place in a face-to-face manner. A short time ago, he referred to the case of the Barcelos Municipal Assembly, which is the largest in the country and of which I am a member, which functioned in person, with all the conditions assured, and worked very well—of course, with the condition to create conditions for compliance with the established rules and in accordance with the reality of each situation and in each period of time. The coverage of legal amendments, introduced as a means of speeding up procedures and facilitating mechanisms, in particular with the suspension of meetings of municipal assemblies, of assemblies of frejesia and even of edility meetings, has often allowed the President's office to exercise confined decisions. Indeed, the deliberative bodies, in most councils, were furnished with functions and did not count for anything, even if, through their municipal groups, they had sent contributions or suggestions, which were not met. Democracy cannot be suspended in any state of affairs! [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u69	Mr Cecilia Meireles of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group now speaks for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u70	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This draft law of the Socialist Party which we discussed extends until 31 December 2020 the regime which was enshrined until 30 June, a regime that allows the distance of meetings of local authorities and inter-municipal entities to be carried out by video conference. Of course, either in these bodies, or in all those where this is possible, the CDS is in favour of holding meetings in security conditions and, of course, in a pandemic period, the security conditions are more effectively guarded by holding meetings from distance to videoconferencing whenever possible. Responding to the challenge of Mr Pedro Delgado Alves, I think it has particular relevance to the suggestion of the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities and the doubt it poses, saying that nowhere is it established that the obligation to hold meetings with the presence of the public can be suspended. That is to say, of two: either this bill intends to suspend the mandatory holding of meetings with the presence of the public, saying only that this should happen whenever possible, or not! I think it should be taxary that this option is only possible if other forms of public participation are ensured, in particular by recording these shares and making the meeting available on site. I think this issue is not clear in the bill and I think it should be clear what its objective is.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u71	Mr Bebiana Cunha of the Parliamentary Group of the PAN now has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u72	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There has of course been a broad consensus on the part of this Parliament that the health crisis should not be a pretext for suspending or limiting democracy in local authorities. That was the recommendation of several international organisations, and that was precisely the spirit that this Parliament had in mind when it envisaged the possibility that, until 30 June, the meetings of the local bodies would take place at a distance, through the existing technological means. As expected, four months back, the health crisis remains and the virus will not take a vacation, even if the government takes part in the sessions at INFARMED ( National Medicine and Health Products Authority ). But finally! In view of the current context, the PS proposes, with this draft law, to extend the exceptional provisions until the end of the year. Of course, the NAP will follow this proposal. This discussion allows us to look at the practical application of these provisions in recent months and we leave three small notes as a contribution to this debate. First, the lack of reference to the intervention period of the public in this exceptional regime served as a pretext for the suspension of this act of participatory democracy and the proximity of the electors in some municipal and parish assemblies. Therefore, on our part, it seems to us that this issue is clear from this project of the Socialist Party, which leaves no room for these misconceptions to repeat. But if other parties actually consider it necessary to clarify this, the NAP will obviously follow the need for this greater clarification. Secondly, the non-reference to the possibility of distance meetings is from specialized committees, either representatives or leaders, if we wish to understand them. This meant that, in some assemblies, these meetings did not take place, or, when they took place in informal format, there was no proper sign of presence for these representatives. It seems to us that this aspect must be clarified and we leave this challenge to the Socialist Party. Thirdly, we would like to point out that, despite this solution, it was important for the NAP to join this Parliament in considering and carrying out a surgical amendment to the legal regime of local authorities, so as to establish a standard that allows the bodies to meet at a distance through electronic means in very exceptional cases, already provided for in the law. This was the modernisation of the meetings of local bodies in Spain to deal with this health crisis and it seems to us that, until December, we will be able to do so as well.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u73	Mr Paula Santos has the floor now for an intervention by the Parliamentary Group of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u74	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have discussed this proposal of the Socialist Party, to extend the deadline to enable meetings of local authorities and inter-municipal authorities to be held using the technological means available. We would like to say the following: we understand the need for, at the beginning of the outbreak, to ensure the functioning of the local bodies, whether the municipal assemblies, or the assemblies of the parish, to be able, in this particular and exceptional period that we were living in, to continue to function and make decisions, according to the democratic regime in which we live. at this exceptional moment, in fact, it seemed to us that this possibility made sense. We're at a different moment now. We are facing the pandemic, but we are at a time when a number of economic activities are already resumed, so it seems to us that the rule should be in order to move forward for meetings to be held in presence and, of course, comply with health recommendations. We do not oppose the fact that, exceptionally, where there are no conditions, there can continue to be the possibility of recourse to the technological means, but we should create the conditions for the holding of these meetings under the present procedure and, of course, comply with all the health recommendations. I repeat it, because I think it's important. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u75	Mr Ventura, from the UK, has the floor, too, for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u76	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, we have a draft law of the Socialist Party which should have been of the first to be presented, for the maintenance of the democratity of the local bodies, even in times of pandemic. There are two issues which seem to us to deserve some clarification and, above all, perhaps some clarification. Starting with the issue of public participation, it is clear that the regime of credentials and prior registration is maintained. That seems obvious to me. But the Socialist Party adds, well, a new item, which is that of the recordings previously made and sent. As has been said by other bodies, it is necessary to clarify to whom these recordings are sent, in which and if they are kept, or not, the requirement of prior registration which, as ex-autarch and all who are present here and are author knows, is a fundamental requirement for participation in this type of meetings. Therefore, it is a regime that lacks clarification in relation to the public participation which is defined here. Finally, secret ballots remain and, as you know, many deliberations by local bodies must have a secret face-to-face vote. It is not necessary to clarify how this regime is defined. Despite the fact that in the bill it is an enunciation of this regime, it is necessary to determine its obligation that there should be no successive deferrals in disciplinary matters, for example, which oblige secret voting in local authorities.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u77	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u78	I will finish, Mr. President. These two aspects seem to us to be very important clarification for this regime to enter into force immediately.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u79	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there are no more entries. I wonder if the Socialist Party wants to sign up.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u80	Mr President, if there are no more entries, then I would like to end the debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u81	It has 2 minutes. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u82	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I thank the various comments and the various notes they have left and I must say that, overall and generally, we agree with everyone, without exception. As regards the expression 'technically viable', in fact, it is an incisor that can be deleted, since it is unquestionable today that between the municipality and the parish is easy to find a solution, if it is difficult to find it in particular in the plan of the parish, and therefore I think it is impossible to remove this element so that no doubt remains that it is a regime that is now being used. The idea of having the recording available on the site for more time also seems appropriate. Often, there is the problem of storage capacity, because the videos are potentially "heavy" for the whole meeting, but at least there should be the possibility of it being requested and requested afterwards; in any case, the meeting's end is always available and readers are not always present at all meetings, so the combination of the recording with the act, we think, is sufficient to ensure the issue of advertising. As for the suspension of physical presence and the doubt that also the ANMP ( National Association of Portuguese Municipalities ) asks, there are three distinct questions: there are meetings which are mandatoryly public, those of municipal assemblies and some meetings of executives. The fact that the meeting is public means that it has to be accessible to the public. In addition, we have another faculty, which is the possibility of intervention by the public, which is different. In other words, we must respond to one, which is to ensure that either there is an online transmission or people can then access the recording, fulfilling the requirement of advertising of what happened, which is different that they also have to have their own treatment is the possibility of the public to use the word at that meeting that is public, but in which the public also becomes intervening and for which it is necessary to draw means for it to have the credentials and can intervene on video or have another possibility. But being different things, what you are looking for is to have an adequate response to each of them and, if in some cases it is possible to solve the problem, particularly through video recording, in others it may not be, i.e., it may happen that there are still meetings where the lot of the room is extraordinarily limited and only there can be a certain number of people in the room, and people can follow by another way. Eventually, putting the possibility of online transmission can help solve some of these problems. The questions put by the NAP Member, in particular to make it clear that the possibility of distance meetings applies to all bodies of the authorities or to all sub-organs which make up them, committees and conferences of representatives, also seem relevant to us. It also seems to us that it is easy to resolve the doubts which Mr Ventura has raised. On whom it is sent, I will say that it is sent to those whom the municipal assembly understands, i.e., the procedure used for a public registration must also be used with fixing the time, the time, the place where the recordings can be made... I would not share too much...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u83	Thank you very much, Mr. You've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u84	I will finish, Mr. President. As I said, I wouldn't oversplit, I'd leave it on each other's margin of decision. As regards the issue of secret voting, the objective is to enable and force deliberations to take place and therefore not to find a file to avoid doing so, obviously leaving also in the decision-making margin of each one the way they would operate.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u85	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of the second item on the agenda, we will move on to the third item, which consists in the general assessment of the Bill No 43 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Strengthen taxpayer guarantees and procedural simplification and Bill No. 465 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Addition to the Code of Procedure and Tax Procedure by introducing the fiscal conciliation process, together with the Draft Resolution No 548 / XIV / 1. a (IL) — Transparency and balance in the relationship between the State and the taxpayer. To open the debate and present the bill, you have the floor by the Government, Mr Under-Secretary of State and Tax Affairs, Antonio Mendonça Mendes.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u86	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The legislative initiative that we bring today to the opinion of the Assembly of the Republic comes from a work that we have done with a group that we have designated for this purpose. Following the report we received, we made a public presentation at a conference on 'tax citizenship' and were then working on the proposals that this working group gave us. As we have always said, we aim to improve the relationship between taxpayer and tax administration, in order to promote what is most relevant from the point of view of the functioning of the tax system, which is to promote voluntary compliance by taxpayers, and we know that this is even the pattern of the Portuguese taxpayer. The proposal presented here aims to improve the relationship with the taxpayer, avoiding the disputes that exist, because of some concrete proposals, of which, if I may, I would like to highlight five. First of all, the establishment of a conciliation mechanism between the Tax Authority ( AT ) and the taxpayers, the conciliation mechanism operating before the end of the inspection procedure. Secondly, the reformulation of the exemption and reduction scheme, which will, for example, allow anyone who forgets to pay a tax on a given date to do so within the next three days without payment of a fine, as has not happened until today. Thirdly, we have set an objective criterion on how many decisions of higher courts in the same sense must automatically require the tax administration to comply with these same guidelines of the higher courts. So far, there has been no such speedy compliance with this rule because there was no such objective criterion, by placing this objective criterion we have the guarantee that the Tax Authority will not fight against taxpayers when there is firm case-law on the subject. Fourthly, we grant taxpayers the right of prior hearing whenever they request binding information. Fifthly, I would like to stress an initiative and measure of greater importance, which is to defer the start of the tax enforcement process by the end of the time when the taxpayers' guarantees of graceful appeal are exhausted, i.e. there will be no more tax executions until all means of defence are completed by the taxpayers, and this measure applies to taxpayers natural persons with debts up to €5,000 and to collective persons, businesses, with debts up to €10,000. In the short time that I still have, let me highlight the improvement of the guarantees for the repayment of bank balances when it is done improperly. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u87	To present the draft law of the Parliamentary Group of the CDS-PP, Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u88	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: The Government presents to us the Bill No 43 / XIV / 1. on strengthening the simplification and guarantees of taxpayers. With regard to the objectives, we could not agree more, however, that this proposal deserves careful reading because, in many cases, it is all less simple and it is much less than to expect in terms of taxpayer guarantees. I understand that, in spite of the political efforts to increase taxpayers' guarantees in this area, tax administration always has a certain guarantee and sometimes almost feels the need to change something in legislation so that, in practice, its powers continue in it. I understand that this Parliament and the political will should strive to counter this temptation. With regard to this proposal, I have some doubts about the new wording of Article 68. the -A of the LGT ( General Tax Law ), which basically deals with the so-called "circular law" and establishes certain criteria for the tax administration to be obliged to review circulars when they are manifestly an abusive interpretation of the legislation and are contradicted by the courts. I would like to be sure that the requirements set out in Article 68. the -A are not cumulative, because if they are going to mean that in some cases it will make it difficult and will be used not to get tax administration to revise its circulars but, above all, to prevent it. This subject has already prompted a question from the CDS-PP to which the tax administration replied showing the few cases in which it had revised its so-called 'circular law'. In fact, cases happen at a hallucinating rate. I remember, for example, the case of those pensioners who, for a delay from the State, received pensions one or two years later and saw them being charged more IRS (tax on income of natural persons). Parliament has passed legislation here, I believe that unanimously, and yet the tax administration has come to say that it cannot apply, and the subject has already needed to be discussed again. Mrs. Members, this is to understand the degree of freedom, so let us say, to use an euphemism, with which the tax administration feels in the power to basically impose its opinion, even when it realizes that it is manifestly against the will of the legislator. The CDS presents a project that has to do with not taxpayer guarantees but with procedural agility to introduce the voluntary tax conciliation process and where taxpayers manifestly, by the volume of the debt in question, have access to adequate defence. It is a project that aims, above all, to relieve the courts, protecting taxpayers who use tax courts to defend themselves, and to promote procedural speed. I would also like to refer to the project of the Liberal Initiative because it has enshrined, unfortunately in the form of a resolution, a historical idea of the CDS-PP, the idea of the current account which, in fact, was plunged 15 days ago in the Supplementary Budget. Obviously, being a historical idea of the CDS, I agree with it. Would you like to explain why the CDS proposed it in the Supplementary Budget in the form of law? Because the resolution does not solve the problem. And I explain why. The current account, from the point of view of intentions, already exists, in fact, was part of the Simplex (Administrative and Legislative Simplification Programme). The problem is that tax administration never recognises the existence of the credit and because it does not recognise the existence of the credit, in practice, prevents the functioning of the current account. Therefore, the CDS has found a legislative solution, which this Parliament has unfortunately led, making an inversion of the burden of proof, i.e. the taxpayer has the right to claim the credit, to claim its existence and, on the contrary, it is up to the tax administration to prove that it does not exist. in this way, it would allow a mechanism that, more than intentions, in practice, and simplifying the explanation, would make possible the existence of the current account.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u89	To present the draft resolution of the Liberal Initiative, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u90	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, Mr. Members: The state fails too much for all citizens, especially as taxpayers and beneficiaries. Citizens do not feel that their high taxes and high contributions result neither in good quality of public services nor in adequate protection, if necessary. To get worse, they often feel betrayed by a state that is always the first to charge, but the last to pay. The two proposals which the Liberal Initiative brings here today have a simple objective: to balance this relationship between the State and the citizen and make it more transparent. The first measure is the creation of a current account, already mentioned today, between people and businesses on the one hand, and the Tax Authority and social security on the other. The State should not be able to charge, often in a coercive, threatening and abusive manner, when the State itself is debtor. We want to rebalance the power relationship between people and the state and avoid the frequent situations in which the State puts and provides without the citizens being able to defend themselves. This is so elementary justice that only those who in this House have a hegemonic or naive vision of the State can oppose. The second measure is the creation of a document to be sent once a year to the beneficiaries of social security by describing, in a clear and accessible manner, the recipient's contribution situation and the rights to it in the present and future. This information is the only way to enable people to make their savings decisions consciously, in an effort to increase financial literacy, already so often identified as a gap that affects the system's proper functioning, and also the basis for a greater requirement of the beneficiaries in relation to the State, without which, it is already known, the State will always abuse its power. These proposals are part of a vision that the Liberal Initiative has for Portugal and for the relationship of citizens with the State that we want and are a symbol of the sovereignty of the individual before the State, of the constant scrutiny to which the State must be subject and also of an increase in the transparency of information to which the Portuguese are entitled. It is not inevitable to have one of the highest rates of tax effort in the OECD ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ), without seeing the counterpart of public services. It is not inevitable to promote this attitude of dependence and even of worship in relation to the State, which always wants to increase its power at the expense of people's freedom. None of this is inevitable, even because there is an alternative and this alternative is liberalism.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u91	For an intervention, Mr Duarte Alves has the floor by the CFP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u92	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, Mr. Members: The proposal for a bill under consideration aims, according to the explanatory statement, to simplify tax procedures. We would like to say that, in order to simplify it, the Government could begin by complying with the law that exists today and has been adopted in the Assembly of the Republic on the initiative of the CFP, to guarantee 120 days for the availability of the forms, which did not happen in particular with Model 3 of the IRS declaration. With regard to the proposed law, we agree with the set of measures to simplify procedures between tax administration and taxpayers. We agree with the taxpayers' possibility to request prior hearing when they request binding information; with the suspension of execution of debts up to certain values, until the end of the grace or judicial defence period; with the exemptions of fines in cases of simple infringements, if the fine is regularised within three days. Finally, we agree with all the measures presented in the explanatory statement, which will meet the need to simplify tax procedures. But, reading in detail the proposal for a law, we find aspects which are not mentioned in the explanatory statement — still above — this is an initiative which entered the House of the Republic last week in full budgetary procedure and which will be voted on tomorrow — and which we are concerned about. For example, we are talking about Article 5. the, more specifically in the amendment proposed in Article 40 ( 3 ). the General Tax Offences Regime ( RGIT ). The proposed article states that the Tax and Customs Authority and social security are now considered criminal police authorities for the purposes of the Code of Criminal Procedure. This raises the greatest doubts and we need to understand the scope of this amendment and what exactly it is intended to do, what specific competences become of AT and social security and who ceases to exercise these powers. Is that the Judicial Police? Or have they been taken directly by the Public Prosecutor's Office? This, in our view, needs to be clarified and, for us, it is not clear by the reading of the bill. As for the other initiatives taken for this discussion, I leave two brief comments. The CDS-PP proposal aims to extend alternative means of conflict resolution, within the tax framework, to challenge more than €500 000. Therefore, we are not talking about the common taxpayer itself. In any case, the CFP is, in principle, unfavourable to dejudicialisation and privatization of justice. We believe that the solution goes not by promoting arbitration, but by ensuring that the courts have the means to carry out their duties effectively and swiftly, attempting, including conciliation, but always within the courts. On the draft resolution of the Liberal Initiative, it is another of those initiatives in which the Government is asked to do what only the Assembly of the Republic can do. It is good to remember that in the State budget for 2020, and on the initiative of the Greens, a proposal has been approved for a long time by the CFP : the creation of the correctness of accounts between the State and taxpayers classified as micro and small enterprises, which was enshrined in Article 35. o -A of the General Tax Law, in respect of tax credits and, of course, without mixing credits of other nature. It is in the law that this type of matter is changed rather than with facilitating and meaningless recommendations to the Government, as proposed by the Liberal Initiative. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u93	It is time to speak to Mrs.Cristina Rodrigues. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u94	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As confidence is a fundamental factor in the relationship between citizens and the State, the fact is that Portuguese little trust in the Tax Authority. In fact, this institution does not always communicate clearly and does not always act in a transparent manner. The high bureaucracy that exists often affects citizens with certain obligations which they do not know and which may even give rise to the payment of fines. These are common cases where taxpayers are notified for payment of debts whose existence they did not know, sometimes several years after the fact that they originated, adding high interest and hindering their defence exercise. Tax legislation is complex and dispersed, which leads to taxpayers not always knowing their rights and means of defense. It is therefore essential that the Tax Authority seek new ways of communicating with citizens. Finally, we generally follow the initiatives under discussion, and we always support initiatives aimed at creating mechanisms that make the relationship between taxpayers and the closest, more transparent and less bureaucratic tax administration.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u95	Mr António Ventura of the PSD Parliamentary Group now speaks for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u96	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The proposed law is based on simplifying the relationship between tax administration and taxpayers and strengthening the guarantees of these same taxpayers. Now, the PSD considers everything that contributes to the path of simplification and clarification, better transparency and protection of taxpayers, much more in the exceptional time in which we live, i.e., the time of the COVID-19 pandemic. It is a duty and an obligation that governs in favour of improving the lives of Portuguese and bureaucracy, the procedural complexity and the lack of protection of Portuguese are paying attention to this improvement. Of course, it is generally in the PSD's objectives, a better relationship of the State with citizens and, where appropriate, a simplification of the procedures of tax litigation in aspects such as strengthening the component of tax arbitration, simplifying the rules on expiry and the limitation of taxes, with changes in suspension and interruption mechanisms, and the maintenance of an adequate guarantee for the suspension of the executive process. The PSD is here to be critical, proposing and allied in the initiatives leading to the objectives of simplification and clarification in order to avoid, at times, the calvary, i.e. the slowness of the tax justice system to which it is assisted. Portugal's credibility must always be on our horizon and, certainly, by improving the system of tax justice, we are contributing to improving the confidence of Portuguese and the image of Portugal. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In the field of expertise, we will make our observations and make possible contributions, from the moment we jump to the face of situations of doubt and even possible situations of concentration of power. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u97	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I am aware that there are no more entries. I don't know if the parliamentary groups that haven't intervened yet want to do so... [[Pause.]] Mr Fernando Anastácio, from the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u98	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: This bill has two of the objectives set out by the current and previous government in tax matters, namely strengthening taxpayer guarantees and fiscal stability. But also the simplification and clarification of the relationship between the tax administration and the taxpayer, as well as the strengthening of taxpayer guarantees. These are the concerns and premises of this legislative initiative and, as mentioned above, the work produced by the Working Group on the Prevention and Friendly Composition of Disputes, which takes into account the need to ensure predictability and security for taxpayers. in this regard, I would like to highlight the fact that this bill only entered into force in 2021, i.e. to cover a number of amendments in this way it is intended to be consonant when it comes to its effect, with a clear advantage for taxpayers and businesses. of the questions and solutions in particular, I stress, at the level of the General Tax Law, the densification of the criteria for revision of the generic guidelines of tax administration, moving to AT to be obliged to change the understandings in favour of taxpayers, where there is firm jurisprudence in this regard, in particular, the existence of judgments on the uniformization of case law by the Supreme Administrative Court or repeated jurisprudence in the higher courts on these matters. That is to say, there is a remarkable concern at seeking to standardize interpretations in accordance with the meaning of judicial decisions and case law, thereby strengthening predictability and security with regard to the guidelines of the Tax Authority, along with the introduction of the possibility of taxpayers to request their prior hearing when requesting binding information. As part of the Code of Procedure and the Tax Procedure, the difference between the start of the fiscal execution process for the end of the defence period is established, this is in respect of debts up to €5,000 or €10,000, as we are talking about taxpayers natural persons or legal persons. It still allows there to be proportionality, also seeking to adapt mechanisms with ease to end the penhora, including suspending it. In tax inspection, a fiscal mechanism for conciliation is also established for the final phase and a new procedure for voluntary regularisation by taxpayers, i.e. it is definitely fixed in the law and regulated voluntary regularisation and the time to do so, also associated with reduction of fines, which brings security, predictability and protection of taxpayer rights. As for the projects that were presented here, I wanted to leave two very brief notes. The Liberal Initiative continues its discourse of constant mistrust with the State, the same State to which it clings with both hands when there is a crisis. It's life, sir!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u99	He's wrong!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u100	Indeed, the contradiction between practice and then speech does not convince voters. As for the CDS, this is indeed a measure for your electorate, i.e. only dealing with the problems of taxpayers with incomes above €500 000 because, in relation to the issues of others, it does not treat them. [[CDS-PP protests.]] In fact, it clearly creates up to a situation of discriminatory treatment and disproportionateity, which, necessarily, must be considered.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u101	It's unbelievable! You should be ashamed!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u102	I conclude by saying precisely that the Socialist Party will be willing, in particular, to work for improvement, for treatment and for the resolution of principles, but always touching on the following points: security, predictability, consumer protection and equal treatment of all taxpayers. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u103	What a disgrace of intervention!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u104	Mrs. Mariana Mortágua, I suppose you signed up to intervene. [[Pause.]] You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u105	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: It seems to us that the dual objective of this proposal and these amendments should be not only the guarantee of taxpayers and the stability of tax legislation but the guarantee of taxpayers and the ability of the Tax Authority to investigate and prevent fraud and tax evasion. If these two objectives are met well, it will be possible to rebalance a disparity of treatment — perceived, I think, with some justice, by taxpayers in general — between the small taxpayer, who has no hypothesis with the Tax Authority, if the deadline is delayed one or two days, if the payment fails, if there is a lack or distraction, and the large taxpayer, who has another ability to deal with the Tax Authority. It is this disparity that needs to be rebalanced and this bill actually brings some amendments and makes some proposals that allow the small taxpayer's situation to be rebalanced with the Tax Authority. The prior hearing, at the time of binding information, is positive; the suspension of execution of debts, when very low values are involved, is positive; the exemption of fines, when it comes to simple infringements; the return of penhoras, when they are not justified, will all make life easier for small taxpayers. I think we should be in favour of this movement of AT, on behalf of the simplification and guarantees of taxpayers. We have a concern that concerns — I would like to clarify this point with the Secretary of State — either to some amendments to this bill or to the initiative of the CDS. The CDS bill brings this concern to the extreme, by establishing a private justice for whom it can, because that is what is done when private conciliation mechanisms are created for large taxpayers, withdrawing from the public scope and scope of the AT litigation in the face of large processes. We are against this kind of private mechanisms and courts when it comes to tax matters, as we are against when it comes to any other issues, including trade and other litigation issues already discussed several times. But this also raises doubts about conciliation mechanisms before the inspection procedures, and the Secretary of State will tell us whether this concern makes sense or not. Voluntary regularization should be an objective of the Tax Authority and conciliation should also be so, as it avoids years and years in courts, and the Tax Authority may even lose these cases. But voluntary regulation and conciliation cannot prevent the trial of tax crimes or prevail over them. What do I mean by this? The 'Operation Furation' was a generalized case of tax fraud, of tax crime, and should be judged as such, but when we look at the results of this operation, the fact is that there was no condemnation because the proceedings were all resolved in conciliations with partial recovery of the amounts of tax evasion. Therefore, for the recovery of values that have not been paid, yes, conciliation whenever possible, but there must also be convictions when the crimes justify it — this is our concern, that of the balance between the effectiveness of the Tax Authority and justice when, from another point of view, these are large taxpayers and large fiscal crimes. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u106	To close the debate, Mr. Under-Secretary of State and Tax Affairs, Mr. Antonio Mendonça Mendes.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u107	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for the various questions you have put to me. First of all, I think it is good that we all agree on this legislative initiative, its purposes and acceptance in principle of the answers we give here and, in particular, we will certainly have time to detail a number of matters. I would like to begin with the last question which Mrs Mariana Mortágua has put and which I think is very relevant. We cannot confuse mechanisms for reconciling and facilitating voluntary compliance with obligations with the desponsability of criminal practices. This is perfectly separate. Operations such as the one that the honourable Member mentioned are criminal operations and the direction of which belongs to the Public Prosecutor's Office. What we are proposing in the conciliation mechanism is that, during any inspection procedure, after the notification of the report for the prior hearing, the taxpayer may request a meeting with the Tax Authority so that they can deal with the infringements they accept. Depending on the infringements they accept, there is a reduction in fines, there is a compromise of non-litigancy for the future. I think that's positive. Since we are talking about the Tax Authority as a criminal police authority, Mr Duarte Alves has raised an important issue, but our amendment to Article 40. the RGIT does not, nor could it, make any changes to the competences of the Criminal Investigation Organization Act. Where there is an open investigation, the management shall be the Public Prosecutor's Office. What we specify here is who is the criminal police body in the Tax Authority, ultimately responsible for the hierarchy. This comes from something that happened about a year or so ago. At the time, the gentlemen. Members spoke a lot, and then never again, about the possible existence of clandestine criminal investigation teams in the AT. This does not exist, but we have come to the conclusion that it was necessary to create mechanisms for the balance of powers and that this would mean that it was important that criminal police entities could also be centralized, without prejudice to the delegation's subsequent actions, in order to have greater control of activities in this area. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to say the following: Mrs Cecilia Meireles has put the matter very well. As an excellent lawyer, he had doubts whether the three conditions under which the Tax Authority is obliged by law are cumulative, or not. They are not cumulative and I believe that this will be clarified if we want to put the « or » in the field of expertise. The intention of the Government is to make it very clear that, since there are decisions on the uniformization of case law or decisions repeated by higher courts, in these circumstances the Tax Authority may adapt its performance. Mr President, if I may, I shall finish with two notes. The first is to tell Mrs.Cristina Rodrigues that we cannot be unfair in the way we judge thousands of AT workers, that every day they give their best to the country's service. Many of these debt notifications, which you say are unknown, relate to non-tax debts entering the tax enforcement process. Therefore, since the last budget, which you have also approved, we have a standard, in which we are working, to withdraw from the road counter-ordinations of the tax enforcement process. Often these debts have not been notified by the competent entities to the taxpayer and then the first time it becomes aware of them is by means of a notification by the Tax Authority because they have entered the tax enforcement process. [[At the moment, he took the presidency of Vice President Editi Estrela.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u108	I ask you to conclude, Mr Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u109	I shall finish, Madam President, with a reference to Mr Cotrim de Figueiredo. I respect the initiative of the Liberal Initiative and I have no doubt that they will certainly want to meet the taxpayer's wishes, but, Mr President, a strong state is a tolerant state, but acting. I believe that the sovereignty of the individual does not overlap with the State, because sovereignty resides with the people, Mr Deputy. That is what the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic says and that is very important. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u110	I take this opportunity to congratulate the Secretary of State and the other members of the Government present. We have thus concluded point 3 of the agenda, so we turn to point 4, which is generally discussed in the Proposal for a Law No 44 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Transposing Directive ( EU ) 2018 / 1808, of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 November 2018 on the provision of audiovisual media services. To present the bill, Mr. Secretary of State of the Cinema, Audiovisual and Media, Nuno Artur Silva, has the floor to whom I also honour.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u111	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, Mrs and Mr. Members: For the transposition of Directive ( EU ) 2018 / 1808, which amended the Directive « Audiovisual Social Communication Services », we propose to amend the Television and Audiovisual Services Act to Request, as well as the Cinema Law by adopting the following priorities: the promotion of the production and dissemination of Portuguese works; the deepening of competitive equity between the various types of services, i.e. between television and television services and, on the other hand, between audiovisual services on request, also known as video on demand, as well as between national operators and foreigners whose services are offered to the public in Portuguese territory; the improvement of the financing conditions of national television services; the increase in the levels of protection of minors and consumers; the strengthening of accessibility of persons with disabilities and other persons with special needs for audiovisual media services; the increase of media literacy; and, finally, the prevention of violence and terrorism. In order to promote the production and dissemination of Portuguese works, we propose that they be applied to services on request for investment obligations similar to those imposed on television programme services, ordinary television channels. We also propose that television services and on request under the jurisdiction of other States should have obligations equal to those of services located on national territory in Portugal. We also propose that, by advertising directed at the hearings located in Portugal and that it be disseminated in the audiovisual services on request, irrespective of the State which has jurisdiction over them, be due to the display rate provided for in Article 10. one of the Cinema Law. In the path provided for in the Directive, such obligations do not apply to services with low revenue or low hearing. On the other hand, investment obligations are progressive depending on the volume of revenue. In addition, operators who choose whether they want their contributions to be based on the revenue itself, the number of subscribers or a fixed rate depending on the scale of revenue they enter. The exemption, the progressive approach and the flexibility provided to operators to choose the basis for calculating their contributions are important not to create barriers to innovation and the entry of new operators. With this set of measures, there can be a significant increase in funding for the production of national works while creating conditions for a dynamic and appealing market for consumers. These innovations are also important in order to deepen competitive equity between the various types of service, i.e. television services and services on request, as well as between national operators and foreign operators. With this in mind, it is also proposed that the rules governing quantitative limits on the issue of television advertising should be flexible as well as the rules on the placing of products. This flexibility places national television operators on a plan of greater competitive equity with on-demand service operators and foreign operators already in Portugal, increasing their capacity to finance themselves. One of the most significant developments in the directive that we propose to be transposed into the national legal order is to subject video sharing platforms to a set of rules aimed at protecting fundamental values such as non-discrimination, preventing hate speech, and protecting minors and consumers. It may seem a modest step, but it is a relevant leap, because it means that an activity with a very strong social impact and that was largely without regulation has to comply with the most essential rules of our legal system and, whenever they are under the jurisdiction of the Portuguese State, they become under the supervision of the ERC, moreover, of course, of the police and judicial authorities. In conclusion, I would like to stress that in the proposed transposition we now present we take advantage of the new European regulatory framework to maximize the funding opportunities of the audiovisual sector and national cinema in its various components, while strengthening the defence of fundamental values, of minors and consumers, in what is most relevant at this time. This is a much more comprehensive part of a strategy that will enable us to build an economically more vigorous audiovisual sector, creating qualified jobs and also being culturally more relevant. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u112	Mrs Ana Rita Bessa of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u113	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries: We discuss Law No 44 / XIV / 1. the, resulting from the transposition into the national legal order of the 2018 directive, on media and audiovisual communication services. The first note I have to make is formal and has to do with deadlines and procedures. This is a directive of the end of 2018 and it is difficult to understand why the government leaves to 25. the time for the submission of this bill because the consequence is that Parliament does not have time to do its work properly, i.e. to appreciate a matter which is complex and which has to be subject to public consultation, which has just had to be shortened for the minimum period, in addition to it will be difficult to hold presenceal hearings in terms that would have an interest in good contributions. I know that there are only two countries, if I do not miss the memory, which have already made the transposition, Austria and Luxembourg, but this in no way helps the process in Portugal, unless it is intended to fail the deadlines, which should not in itself be an objective. The second note has to do with the content itself and, in this sense, is more relevant. The text of this bill is very close to the text of the directive, the initial text, and it is generally worth our approval, as in the European Parliament, also voted in favour of the Euro MP Nuno Melo. As I said, it deals with the balance of hard to legislate but relevant subjects such as the prohibition of violent, racist and xenophobic content; it pays particular attention to the protection of minors in access to inappropriate content for their age, as well as access to certain advertising content such as, for example, products harmful to health or the environment; and it gives particular importance and attention to the right to access to information by people with disabilities. On the other hand, it also has mechanisms that, we agree, promote independent audiovisual production and film production, and also national, and create a, in English expression, level playingfield, i.e. competitive market conditions levelled between operators and platforms. The third and final note has to do with the speciality and with our understanding of what the process of speciality should be. The density and volume of legislative changes introduced here, which have a particular impact on our legislation as regards the framework laws of cinema and television, also have an impact on various sectors and on various operators and there are some things which, in our view, need to be clarified in the field of specialty. Mr Secretary of State now has no time to clarify these aspects, but probably in the specialty process until you will have the opportunity to intervene in this regard. Here are three examples of these aspects that need clarification. On the one hand, it is envisaged that audiovisual services should be imposed at the request of a minimum quota of 30 % of European works with the guarantee of a prominent position. However, the weight of national production in that quota must be clarified because it can have an effect contrary to what is intended. This is the first clarification that has to be made. The second clarification has to do with the concept of relevant profits, which includes both the revenue of signatures or on-demand transactions of audiovisual services, and also the revenue resulting from the exploitation of audiovisual commercial communications, such as advertising, sponsorship or product placement. Now, it would be useful to know exactly what kind of audiovisual commercial communications are in question here.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u114	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u115	I shall conclude, Madam President. For example, is the exploitation of video platforms on demand ( VOD ), as advertising space, involved here, or not? Finally, one last note, that Mr. Secretary of State spoke of is this: it would be important to clarify how the obligations under this new scheme will be applied to video sharing platform services whose companies are not based in Portugal and how the ERC ( Regulatory Entity for Social Communication ) will have the strength and capacity to make this application in Portugal. As a specialist, we will try to ensure these improvements.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u116	For an intervention, Mrs Isabel Lopes of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u117	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members : Today we are discussing a proposal for a government law transposing a directive of the European Union to the internal legal order. This Directive aims to bring the existing rules into line with the provision of audiovisual media services in Portugal and Europe. It is undoubtedly an important, necessary and long-awaited transposition. The amendments introduced by the Directive entered into force on 18 December 2018, as mentioned above, and must be transposed into the legal order of the countries of the European Union by 19 September 2020. This European legislative initiative is central and of primary importance in determining greater discipline in the audiovisual sector in the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the fundamental right to freedom of expression and information, as well as to informed citizenship, can only be guaranteed through freedom of the press and pluralism. This is an essential premise, for it affirms fundamental values and principles of democracy. in this sense, this transposition can and should also be an opportunity to improve and deepen the functioning of the social communication sector in Portugal, such as: to ensure the freedom and pluralism of the media through independent governance; to strengthen the security and protection of viewers, especially the most vulnerable ones, especially children; to combat hate speech more effectively; and to ensure competitive equity between the traditional broadcasting sector and new services, such as video services or audiovisual content on social networks. The PSD is available to work and propose improvements, as well as: improving the conditions for financing national television services, strengthening the accessibility of persons with disabilities to audiovisual media services, increasing the levels of protection of minors and consumers, promoting the dissemination of Portuguese works. The PSD will always defend the clarification and definition of rules in the functioning of audiovisual media. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u118	Mr Diana Ferreira of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u119	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, Mr. Members: In discussing this diploma, it is important to start by saying that we know well about the government's propaganda that we want to transpose all the directives that are still pending until the end of the legislative session. Being the deadline for the transposition of this directive specifically September 19 of the current year, and being the end of 2018 directive, what the Government should have done was in time to promote a broad discussion on this subject and not to deliver a bill on June 29 to be discussed on July 9, considering the implications of this document in the sectors of social communication, audiovisual and culture, with this transposition.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u120	There it is!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u121	A transposition is in line with the rules defined in the Portuguese institutions, it must be adapted to national legislation, within the framework of the different institutions and entities which by it will be covered and duly appreciated in this Parliament, which is also currently taking this discussion having only the opinion of the ALRAM ( Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira ) on this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u122	All right! So far, so good!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u123	The Government has not heard or consulted entities, structures and agents, such as the culture sector, and has drawn up this bill behind its back. This, when it proposes considerable amendments to the Film Law, in particular at the level of rates and investment obligations, but as we could also confirm here in the intervention of the Secretary of State, when it ends up subordinated cinema to audiovisual. That is why the CFP advocates that all hearings considered necessary by Parliament with the various entities directly affected by the transposition of this Directive take place. This whole process is under way, and it seems more like that we want to speed up the matter, without any discussion that alerts us to the dangers of what is being translated into this diploma. The Government opted for tax transposition of Directive ( EU ) 2018 / 1808 for this bill. This means that the equitable conditions between traditional audiovisual communication services and online with video sharing platforms have not been reached, which will not be disconnected from the recent discussion of copyright and safeguards, in particular users and the fair remuneration of artists. In this regard, it is important to remember what the CFP stated, when discussing the same copyright directive: "We watch a giant hijacker that has nothing to do with safeguarding interests, neither creators nor users; what is at stake is the distribution of profits resulting from the dissemination of content, without ensuring fair remuneration to creators. The filters are institutionalized, conditioning creative freedom, press freedom and free access to culture, while promoting greater concentration and monopolie in the digital sector», this reflection that maintains the whole of the current debate. With the transposition of this directive, the exemption from the editorial responsibility of these platforms remains, the self-regulation of the industry is promoted, the placing of products and the quantitative rules on commercial communication are liberalised. And it does not go so far into the conditions of access of people with disabilities to a set of instruments, which are far from what needs to be realized. This proposal continues to be part of the digital single market strategy. It deepens the path of harmonisation of the legislation and regulation of the sector, limiting the sovereignty of Member States in determining the legal framework that best serves their development strategy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u124	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u125	I shall conclude, Madam President. The CFP argues that this legislative process cannot be completed without broad hearings and various contributions allowing the final diploma to effectively take into account national reality. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u126	Mr Jorge Costa of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, for an intervention, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u127	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Block of the Left brought here, in the discussion of the State Budget for 2020, the proposal for the extension of the rates defined in the Cinema Law to cable TV operators to audiovisual content platforms, including Netflix and HBO, which have recently had a great expansion. The Government then, through the Secretary of State, replied that it was now, in the context of the discussion of the directive, that this debate should be held. That is why we miss the way in which the Government now brings this discussion to the Assembly of the Republic without any public debate in 25. the time of the legislative session, and having allowed time to pass when this transposition should have been made and the deadline for it to be completed is approaching. This does not, in our view, preclude the making of the necessary hearings and the hearing of the stakeholders in the sector and all interested parties, until, in our view, this proposal does not serve and does not meet the objectives of the directive. Firstly, because it includes a real tax bill to digital platforms, in particular by exempting them from the contribution that cable TV operators pay — €2 per year for each subscriber — this contribution which does not find correspondence on the side of audiovisual content platforms. On the other hand, this revenue is essential because it should contribute to strengthening the capacity of public investment, the capacity of the Institute of Cinema and Audiovisual (ICA ) for the promotion of national audiovisual production. The only expected rate is on commercial advertising, but when we look at the main platforms that are concerned, namely HBO or Netflix, I do not see what is the advertising revenue that will be taxed and I would like to get clarification from the government about it, until I am a consumer of such products and I do not have advertising spaces specifically referred to as such in these contents. I would therefore like to know what the government's forecast for the revenue to be obtained at this level is. And even on investment obligations the proposal is wrong because in the investment obligations of these operators it does not include the installation of production capacity in Portugal. They simply hire half a dozen services that contribute to outputs out there and are not required to fill their quota with production actually carried out here. Otherwise, we have an interest in understanding a better explanation, because this was the reading we have made of what is now written in the proposed diploma. So, in our view, this is a missed opportunity to give ICA the investment capacity that the contribution of these companies, which are the ones that grow in the sector, could give.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u128	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u129	And if we look at other countries — like Poland, for example, which gives Polish ICA 1, 5 % of the profits of these platforms, Germany, where 1, 8 % to 2, 5 % of the turnover goes as a contribution to the German cinema institute, or France, which goes to 5 % of that turnover and even more 16 % to 25 % of the direct investment obligation in productions in France, we see that we are far below and also much below the achievement of the objective of the directive, which was not to give these facilities to the platforms, but rather calls them to share in the compensation of the effects and impacts that their activity has on public investment and on the audiovisual production capacity in our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u130	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u131	In conclusion, Madam President, we believe that it is necessary to return to this diploma and do so - especially after hearing the stakeholders in the sector and interested parties - which is incomprehensible that the government has not wanted to do. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u132	Mr André Ventura has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u133	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State : There are aspects in this diploma that are obviously positive, such as the extension of Portuguese jurisdiction in some matters and also the payment of fees by operators who are outside the obligation to pay those fees. It is also to welcome the prevention of content that could influence minors and the free development of personality. The aspect that I wanted to question here specifically relates to the speech of hate. This regulation transposes and seeks to introduce in Europe clear limits to freedom of the press, in such a way that — and I say it to the most distracted people — Article 86. o-B says this: « The ERC can prevent the supply of programs included in audiovisual service catalogues(...) ». The ERC can stop it! Without the authorization of any court, without any court order! There is no greater form of censorship than this! Who is the ERC to prevent anything from content and press freedom? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u134	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u135	And we must stop this madness that any politically oriented decision can lead to an operating censorship in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u136	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u137	I will finish, Madam President. We will not accept censorship and will not accept any form of censorship in Portugal on this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u138	For an intervention, Mrs Rosário Gambôa, of the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u139	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: In fact, the vertiginous acceleration that marks our contemporary world and the impact that this acceleration has manifested within the field of media and audiovisual communication poses urgent challenges for us. These urgent challenges are the primary challenges that must bring us here, the challenges in the field of democracy, the safeguarding of freedom of expression, the sustainability of the media and audiovisual media, but also the responsibility of these same bodies in defending these values. What Directive ( EU ) 2018/1808 seeks to work, as a central point in the new paradigm framework, is precisely those objectives. It is up to the country, in an appropriate legislative framework, to transpose it. That is why we have this bill here today. National sovereignty is not at stake, Mrs Diana Ferreira. It is up to Parliament to define the way and how it intends to implement these general guidelines.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u140	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u141	It is important, however, to understand some crucial issues of this directive, which have already been very focused here. Some of these questions, for example, taking into account the situation that Mrs Ana Rita Bessa began by raising, have to do with the form, with the morbidity that may involve and that other Mrs. Members also evoked. We, the Socialist Party, are aware of this and are willing, in these and other things, to proceed with the necessary improvements in democratic dialogue. And since we have made progress with the possible possibility, since the Rules of Procedure allow it, there is a division within our own assessment. That is, let us make a separation between, in particular, what makes the transposition of the directive, which, yes, has a deadline, and let us leave to another chapter, let us say, the assessment of the amendment of the laws of cinema and audiovisual, so that we can do what all the Members have to do. Members have considered it relevant and that certainly brings us all together: a serious work, a consistent work, a work that must pass through the hearing of several stakeholders, interested persons, agents, so that this directive and what is associated with it can be transposed into proper conditions and with due quality. That is what mobilizes us and that is what the Socialist Party believes must be our task, yours and that of all this Parliament. In the few seconds that I still have, I would like to point out that the issue of defending democracy and everyone's responsibility for democracy is one of the strengths of this directive, and certainly in terms of its analysis in the specialty, we can all try to optimize and better understand all these implications. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u142	To close this debate, Mr. Secretary of State of Cinema, Audiovisual and Media, Nuno Artur Silva, has the floor, which has two minutes.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u143	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, with regard to the fulfilment of the deadlines, as has already been said, we have indeed a deadline, but there has been an exceptional situation which, among other things, delayed the European orientation itself, the guides, which were supposed to have arrived earlier and which took longer to be transmitted to the Member States. Moreover, as mentioned by the Member of the CDS, we are not a single case, Portugal is not the only country to be late. In fact, we are not late, we are in this situation. This is the explanation of the delay. In any case, with regard to the contributions, Mrs Diana Ferreira, before we started our work, we had the opportunity to collect statements from the entire sector and from asking the various associations. So that was done. Mr Jorge Costa, from the Left Block, wanted to say that the ICA was obviously involved in this work since the first hour. And let me tell you that I completely reject the idea that there are no obligations on the part of operators. On the contrary, I said here that they are applying to services on request investment obligations similar to those imposed on television programme services. I just said that here. Therefore, objectively, there are obligations that go through putting foreign operators and Portuguese operators at the same level.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u144	What about national production?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u145	On this I am sorry not to have time to clarify it now, but I will be happy to do so in the specialty. I would also like to remind you that, from September on, we will have the discussion of the strategic plan for cinema and audiovisual, and I also want to reject any submission of cinema to audiovisual logic. This will be discussed at the end of September and it is also at this headquarters that there are many issues that can be resolved. As far as the directive is concerned, I will have every pleasure in developing and clarifying with you, in the specialty, in more time, whatever is necessary. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u146	We therefore conclude the fourth item on our agenda. The general debate on the Proposal for a Law No 45 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Authorizes the Government to legislate on board fishing vessels and the activity of seafarers on board ships by transposing Directives ( EU ) 2017 / 159 and 2018 / 131. For an intervention, Mr. Under-Secretary of State, Labour and Vocational Training, Miguel Cabrita, has the floor. Please, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u147	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Improving working conditions and relationships is a strategic objective of public policies. Both international law and two-party and tripartite social dialogue have been instrumental over decades for these goals of progress, well-being and improvement of the conditions and rights of workers. in this sense, the Government has submitted to this House a proposal for a law authorising it to legislate on board fishing vessels and maritime activity on board ships, thereby fulfilling an obligation laid down in the European Treaties to transpose, in full, the directives of the national legal system. The directives concerned concern the agreement on the application of the ILO ( International Labour Organisation) Convention on work in the fisheries sector, signed in 2012 by the social partners of the sector, and also on the agreement also concluded by the partners of the sector to amend a 2009 Directive, already in accordance with the amendments of 2014, 2016 and 2018, concerning the 2006 Maritime Labour Convention, adopted by ILO at the International Labour Conference in 2014. In order to enable this correct transposition, it is necessary to update the legal arrangements of the individual labour contract on board fishing vessels and the minimum safety and health requirements on board fishing vessels. in the same way, in order to transpose into our legal order the amendments I have referred to, it will be necessary to amend the diplomas governing the activity of seafarers on board ships flying the Portuguese flag, as well as the responsibilities of the Portuguese State as flag State or port and the legal regime relating to the inspection of ships by the port State. There is no time in this debate to list in detail all the amendments in question, but I would like to reinforce that these directives result from the social dialogue at European level and that are, in general, significant changes in the direction of strengthening the rights and conditions of workers in the fisheries and maritime work sector. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u148	Mr João Dias of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u149	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : The Government is requesting authorization to legislate on board fishing vessels as well as on the activity of seafarers on board vessels, thus transposing two directives of the European Union. Whether the Government transposes into the national legal system matters relating to minimum safety and health requirements at work, it also establishes the legal regime of the individual labour contract and regulates the activity of seafarers. This is clearly related to labour legislation, as you know, Mr. Members, the same is in the process of public discussion until 24 July 2020, thus ensuring what is the important participation of citizens in this legislative procedure. As a whole, the provisions which the Government presents, although in a limited form and with limited application, may help to solve problems that have long been identified in the sector, in particular with regard to improving occupational safety and health and medical care at sea and also that sick and injured fishermen are treated on land, that rest is sufficient for health and safety, that there is protection of a written contract of work, that such protection is provided, as for the other workers, ultimately to ensure that fishing vessels have, in substance, also better living conditions, decent, on board ships. We follow this authorization from the Government, since there are advantages in incorporating the Maritime Labour Convention, in this case by transposition into the national laws of European Union directives, giving much greater monitoring capacity in our maritime area, for example in infringement proceedings, which will further strengthen compliance with the law. Mr Secretary of State, however, I must say that we, CFP, cannot fail to draw the Government's attention to the fact that we do not have the same concern about other aspects equally relevant to the activity of seafarers and their health and safety on board fishing vessels. Mr Secretary of State, I am talking about a matter which will probably not accompany, but which has to do with it: the definition of functional content and the requirements for access to the categories and functions of seafarers. The portfolio project that was in public consultation until recently did not respond to what is required in the new Maritime Registration Regulation, published in 2019, in which the Government defines that it can access the category of sea practitioner who is qualified with a training course of sea support level, a course that no one knows, which is missing. What course is this? Oh, my God! How does no one know what this is about? Oh, my God! No one knows how it is, where you can access this course. So this requirement of nothing serves. But the most serious of all is that they have replaced the basic safety certificate that is required for seafarers practicing by proof that they have carried out shipping as non-seafarers on board fishing vessels for a period not less than six months.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u150	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u151	I will finish, Madam President. That is, at the end of six months, without a license, without anything, without any certification, they start to have the license without qualifications. And ready, security is guaranteed, training is guaranteed! This is what the Government reserves and does not worry about solving. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u152	Mr João Pinho de Almeida, from the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u153	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: The two directives which the Government brings here today in a proposal for a law have a significant impact on the fisheries sector, from then on by the set of diplomas which are amending the security conditions on board, amend the diploma relating to the employment contract of seafarers and also concerning the responsibilities of the Portuguese State as flag State, vessels and port. These amendments, as has already been said, were made following a social dialogue, built at European level. And it is important that there is this social dialogue at European level, because, as we know, the fisheries sector is a relevant sector in many countries, including Portugal, and it is essential that, for example with regard to security conditions, there be a harmonisation of these requirements and such security conditions so that, obviously, there are no unfair questions, not only from the social point of view, but also from the economic point of view, of competition, which is also not made under the same parameters. Therefore, as regards the implementation of these amendments, we agree, because in the overwhelming majority of cases they go towards or increase the safety of vessels, or improve their guarantees, for example in relation to rest periods. What do we want to highlight in this matter? In the case of an 80-page bill, 100 attached points and a huge set of diplomas, the Government could have had other respect by the Assembly of the Republic in its presentation. This bill came here on June 29, ten days before the debate. Worse: she entered immediately after both directives had seen the deadline for transposition expire. From a formal point of view, therefore, there is an action on the part of the Government which does not prejudge the process of transposition of these guarantees, with a final problem: when it comes to labour, this proposal for a law must be subject to public assessment and, well, in our view, this public assessment will still be essential so that, in particular, we can consider contributions from the sector, particularly from the sector linked to fishermen, in order to know whether this bill can still be improved. It happens that the period of public assessment ends after the last plenary session of this legislative session, which means that this delay of the Government is not only a delay until June, it will be a delay at least until September, and this, of course, does not only prejudice Portugal's image from a bureaucratic point of view in fulfilling its obligations at European level, but, above all, harms those who could already benefit from the realization of the entry into force of this law and who will thus have to wait longer. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u154	For an intervention, Mrs Sandra Pereira of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u155	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State : This proposal for a law consists of an application for legislative authorization by the Government of the Republic to amend three diplomas in order to implement two Community directives — it has already been said — whose deadlines for transposition have already been exhausted. Three diplomas relate to the provision of work in the fisheries sector, a sector of course very important to Portugal, and the transnationality that the sector assumes requires a harmonisation of legislation and a fair protection of all employees and workers in the European Union. The strengthening of health, hygiene and safety standards at work, the establishment of maximum working time limits and minimum rest limits for crew members of fishing vessels, as well as the establishment of limits to additional work, ensure the payment of wages in debt in the event of abandonment, all this, Mrs and Mrs. Members, these are objectives set out by the Government which have already resulted from international obligations to which the Portuguese State was already bound and, of course, to which the PSD agrees and which it accompanies. The subjects of vocational training and qualification, working conditions, hiring, remuneration, duration of work, holidays, return and accommodation are very particular and very important issues for workers in this sector, fishermen and trade craft workers, which deserve our particular attention. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD is always in the forefront of strengthening the rights and guarantees of greater dignity in the work carried out on fishing vessels, commercial vessels and, more importantly, in the best working conditions for our fishermen. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u156	Mr João Castro, from the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u157	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, Mrs and Mrs. Members: Let's focus on the essential. This proposal authorizes the Government to legislate on board fishing vessels and seafarers on board ships by transposing Directives ( EU ) 2017 / 159 and 2018 / 131. The Convention on Maritime Labour of the International Labour Organization establishes minimum living conditions for seafarers on board ships of the Sea of Commerce and provides for obligations for shipowners, flag States, port States and also for labour-contributing States. Directive ( EU ) 2018 / 131 applied the changes made in order to ensure the existence of financial guarantee systems and to establish maritime assistance mechanisms abandoned by the shipowner, in accordance with the social partners. The Convention on Work in the Fisheries Sector, implemented by Directive ( EU ) 2017 / 159, established new guidelines and principles to ensure that workers have decent working conditions on board fishing vessels. In fact, fishing is a dangerous activity comparable to fighting fires or even mining. The mortality rate of fishermen is much higher than that of the professions in general. In fishing there is no clear separation between working time and leisure time or particular activities. The remuneration of workers is often based on the division of catches of a vessel rather than a fixed wage. Many fishermen are not, in the conventional sense, workers, owners of shipowners or only regarded as self-employed. in this context, it is easy to see that the procedures and safeguards established for people who work on land are not suitable or are not effective for the fisheries sector, contributing to the decent work deficit for fishermen. in this sense, it is necessary to update the legal regime establishing the individual labour contract and to regulate minimum safety and health requirements at work on board fishing vessels, to ensure that fishing has decent working conditions, implementing minimum labour requirements, conditions of service, housing, food, safety, health protection, medical care and social security. in a record of the progress already made, for example in the Autonomous Region of the Azores, in the sense that all fishermen have the possibility of having a contract for work, the PS Parliamentary Group could not fail to follow this initiative, pointing to it as clearly positive, in a clear and necessary concern with the fisheries sector and fishermen. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u158	For an intervention, you have the floor of Mrs.Cristina Rodrigues.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u159	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, Mrs and Mrs. Members: I welcome the fact that these directives are finally transposed. The European Parliament proposed that the EMFF ( European Maritime and Fisheries Fund ) subsidies may be used in order to improve the safety or working conditions and living conditions of the crew, which includes corrections to the quality of the crew, provided that — and I stress « provided that » — any increase in capacity « is within the limit allocated to the Member State concerned, without jeopardising the balance between the fishing capacity and the fishing opportunities available and without increasing the vessel's ability to catch fish'. There is, in fact, a tenuous line between increasing fishing capacity and improving safety and working and living conditions on board. The question is: should the public funds of the EMFF serve to improve safety and working conditions if they also lead to increased fishing capacity, putting even more at risk the protection of biodiversity? We don't think so. If this happens, this measure undermines the credibility of the European Union in negotiations with the World Trade Organisation, which aim to prohibit harmful subsidies contributing to overcapacity, excessive fishing and illegal fishing by 2020, so this situation should necessarily be cautious.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u160	For an intervention, Mr José Soeiro, of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u161	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As mentioned above, we are talking about two directives covering very broad matters, from working times and rest time; accidents at work and occupational diseases; financial guarantees for maritime assistance abandoned by the shipowner; the right to return; the operation of employment contracts in the event of piracy or armed robbery; the inspection of ships, also moving in counter-ordination; the regulation of ship accommodation or fishing vessel; finally, as it has been said, a very large set of matters that are of greatest importance. The Left Block monitors all measures, efforts and initiatives aimed at strengthening safety and working conditions and, therefore, much of these rules have precisely that objective. We cannot fail to mention, as has already been said, that the Government has submitted this transposition late, and there are intractable constitutional provisions relating to the period of public assessment of matters related to labour law. And here we are, of course, talking about a case that has a direct relationship with labour legislation. I have also had the opportunity in committee to draw attention to this aspect. It is that even considering a period of 20 days, which is the minimum period of public assessment, this means that this set of amendments cannot be transposed into Portuguese law before the end of this legislative session. Therefore, time will still have to be considered for the contribution of the representative organisations of the sector, without prejudice to the negotiation that has already taken place at European level, but also in Portugal representative associations, particularly workers, will still have time to take action, and this period must be respected and, after these contributions, the legislative process which the Government now intends to initiate will be closed. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u162	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in order to close this debate, have the floor of Mr Under-Secretary of State, Labour and Vocational Training, Miguel Cabrita. Mr. Secretary of State, has 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u163	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I want to record the general follow-up to the concerns of the Government in order to make this transposition, as is indeed the obligation of the Portuguese State, but, in fact, recognizing, as the Government also recognizes, that these are matters of greater importance and diversity, some of them dealing with the relevant rights of workers and promoting their safety. It is a sector, as it has also been recognized here, that has risks, complexities and specificities that deserve further treatment and, indeed, over the decades, the issues related to working conditions and their improvement have been successively the subject of advances. The question of deadlines has been raised. As you know and is known, the Portuguese State has greatly improved its condition in terms of deadlines for transposition of directives. It is true that we always prefer to meet all deadlines and, preferably, to anticipate them, but, when it is not possible, it is intended to complete this situation within the shortest period of time. It is also in this sense that this proposal for legislative authorisation is now in the Assembly of the Republic. I would like to stress again the fact that these directives result from social dialogue at European level. This is a methodology which the European Treaties allow and which we, moreover, value, without prejudice, of course, to the contributions which, at national level, the social partners, both trade unions and employers, can make on these diplomas and matters. I would also like to say that there is a dual concern here that has also been mentioned by different political forces. One of these concerns the promotion of conditions harmonisation, which is also a way to promote fair and transparent competition between different countries. This is a sector with an increasingly pronounced transnational and global condition and in which this dimension of fair competition is very important. And one of the ways to guarantee is precisely to offer decent working conditions, allowing this competition to be done without bottlenecks and without dumping in competition between companies and countries. in this sense, I emphasize some of the improvements, the steps, which, in our view, are more important and have been given. In fact, some of them have already been mentioned here, but I would like to stress. First of all, I refer to the right of the fisherman to examine and advise on the terms of the contract before his conclusion, as well as the duty of that person to be handed over to the worker and to be available on board. On the other hand, I stress the change in working time limits at night, between 22 hours a day and 7 hours a day on the following day, or when there are specific provisions in collective labour regulations, ensuring that there are at least nine consecutive hours of rest, including the period between 0 and 5 hours in the morning. I also remember the existence of fast and effective financial guarantee systems to assist seafarers, particularly when there are situations of abandonment by shipowners. I also refer to the extension of the validity of the maritime work certificate for a maximum period of five months after a successful renewal inspection and the guarantee of payment by the shipowner of compensation in the event of death or long-term disability of a maritime, resulting from an accident at work or occupational disease, which is a very relevant issue in this sector. Finally, and also mentioned here, I assure you that, in extreme cases, such as acts of piracy or armed robbery against ships, the employment contract of the maritime worker continues to produce effects, wages continue to be due and paid and other benefits arising from the law and the collective regulation instruments of work are maintained. These are, therefore, issues that are not just and which, in many cases, relate to the daily work of these workers, but also to situations of specific risks of the sector. I therefore believe that, with this transposition, we will be able to take another step in the protection of these workers and in ensuring adequate and increasingly favourable working conditions. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u164	Mrs. Members, we have reached the end of the general assessment of the Bill No 45 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ), so we will now proceed to the general debate of the Bill No 46 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Defines the objectives, priorities and guidelines for criminal policy for the biennium 2020 - 2022. For an intervention, Mr. Justice Minister Francisca Van Dunem has the floor that I welcome.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u165	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In accordance with Law No. 17 / 2006 of 23 May, the Government submits to this House the proposal for a criminal policy law for the biennium 2020 - 2022, including the definition of objectives, priorities and guidelines on crime prevention, criminal investigation and criminal action, as well as enforcement of penalties and security measures. The proposal presented here considers the data of the 2018 and 2019 Annual Internal Security Reports ( RASI ) and incorporates the international prospective analyses made, in particular by Europol, as well as the impact of the different criminal phenomena on people's lives, on the sense of common security and on the realization of the rule of democratic law. The critical reading of data recorded by the criminal police (PCO) in 2019, and revealed in the latest RASI, allows us to see that there are no significant changes in criminal phenomena with a higher prevalence at the national level. The numbers of domestic violence, computer jokes and telecommunications continue to be a cause for great concern. in a logic of continuity with regard to the framework set out in Law No 96 / 2017, which preceded this proposal, this proposal integrates, in the prevention of crime, specific security and police programmes and plans, intended for victims particularly vulnerable either because of their particular condition or depending on the nature of the crime and thus intended to control sources of danger, particularly in complex means, such as the internet. At the same time, in terms of repression, we want here to signal the maintenance of procedural differences between the treatment of serious crimes and low- and medium-severity crimes, safeguarding the coherence between the preliminary phase and the subsequent phases in the criminal process and conciliating also the implementation of priorities with the current model of district management. In line with the major concerns of the European agenda, the proposal gives centrality to the victims of crimes, giving priority to their protection and repair of the damage suffered, while at the same time betting on the prevention of recurrence, promoting the provision of programmes aimed at agents of certain categories of crimes or to some of their specific criminogenic factors, programmes to be carried out in both institutional and non-criminal settings. in another plan, the bill maintains a clear focus on asset recovery, as a policy that aims to restore values and heritage to the community obtained through crime practice, emphasizing the premise that crime cannot compensate. The perception of the need for closer follow-up to the difficulties of criminal investigation, in particular in economic-financial crime and corruption, underpins the proposal we make, to integrate in the report to be submitted by the Attorney-General of the Republic, with regard to the enforcement of the law, a special chapter on the evaluation of measures taken in the context of the prevention and suppression of economic-financial crime. The specific circumstances of the moment we live and the uncertainty about its duration justify options, with the priority we agreed, for the investigation of crimes against the public authority, committed in the context of health emergency or civil protection and thus the crime practised in the health environment. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u166	For an intervention, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, of the Parliamentary Group of the PAN, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u167	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members : The objectives of criminal policy for the biennium 2020 - 2022, when establishing criminal phenomena of priority prevention, effectively address some of the concerns that have been highlighted by the NAP over the past few years, such as domestic violence, marital murder, crimes of racial, religious and sexual discrimination, crime in school and in the health environment, and crimes against forests. However, we cannot fail to express some concern about what will in practice be the application of these objectives, when we anticipate that it will not be accompanied by the means necessary for its realisation. This, especially when we are in the middle of the year and we still have proposals submitted by the NAP to strengthen investment in these areas which have been rejected by this House. Some examples are: the proposal that claimed human and material resources for the judicial police, the hiring of 65 psychologists for the Ministry of Justice or the strengthening of funding for the follow-up of children and young people in compliance with special educational protective measures due to situations of sexual abuse. It is therefore of little benefit that the proposal presented here sets out, and well, a set of objectives, priorities and guidelines on crime prevention, criminal investigation, criminal action or enforcement of penalties and security measures, if there is not, on the other hand, the necessary investment in human and material resources in criminal police bodies, courts and, likewise, in other partners, such as local authorities and other institutions. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister of Justice: We need a true criminal policy, we read a structured and thought-out policy, in terms of prevention, which runs counter to the trend of a country at various speeds, depending on the financial availability or sensitivity of those who apply it. We do not want to end by not forgetting the fact that, once again, crimes against animals do not deserve any kind of definition of these objectives, particularly at the level of increased concern, when it is known that these crimes have increased and in some cases become particularly violent. Animals are also victims of the phenomena of violence, being particularly vulnerable by the circumstances of being entirely at the mercy of the human being. However, there is still a lack of proper answers in this matter, especially when we see the concern with them about trafficking in protected species, we read a purely economic perspective, thus ignoring the need to combat ill-treatment of animals and their relationship with violence against people, as the FBI recognizes, for example, in the United States. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government: The strategy about criminal policy cannot, in our view, be merely a statement of principles or a mere statement of intentions; it is required that it be the realization of the answers society so much calls, but this is achieved only with an investment consistent with the size of the challenges and, equally important, with a concerted strategy among all actors, whether they are the central State or local authorities.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u168	Mr José Manuel Pureza, from the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u169	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: Almost three years ago, when we discussed the Government's proposal on criminal policy priorities for the two years 2017 - 2019, on behalf of the Left Block, I expressed our criticism of a solution that provided nothing less than 20 priority prevention crimes and 15 priority research crimes. Three years back, here we are discussing a government proposal that identifies no less than 19 priority prevention crimes and 18 priority research crimes. The numerical and substantive consistency of priorities is, after all, the lack of priorities. Let us be serious: a list of two dozen priorities is the final expression of the lack of definition of what is really priority. In fact, in the debate of three years ago, in response to a question that we asked you about precisely this, it was frankness that can only be praised — and I say it without any irony. Allow me to quote it in the debate three years ago. She said: 'These crimes are all of the same priority' is precisely one of the major difficulties of these statements, which means that there is no categorization of priority based on the position of the indication of the crime or the criminal phenomenon on this list. And then he added: « (...) at the time that this was being discussed until it was suggested the possibility of being in alphabetical order. Do not keep on seeking. ” About three years later, here we are again faced with this feeling that we are meeting a legal requirement here, but that it is totally or almost totally inconsequential. It is not with a list of 20 priorities that the Assembly of the Republic sets a precise frame within which the Public Prosecutor, with his autonomy, will determine fine criteria for ordering objectives. On the other hand, by verifying the almost absolute similarity between this list of crimes considered as prevention and priority research, contained in the Government's proposal three years ago, and the Government now presenting, there is doubt as to whether any assessment of the application of the previous law concerning the then adopted priorities was made, there is doubt as to which instruments of knowledge of Portuguese reality were used to arrive here, we doubt whether, after all, it was not the mere strength of inertia that prevailed in the definition of this list. Mrs Minister for Justice, Mrs and Mrs. Members: With a content like this, like three years ago, this law has no useful effect and does not help, as it should, to define a well thought-out policy to combat crime. It is more than time to review the law to dignify Parliament. The Left Block will be here for that to happen. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u170	For an intervention, Mrs Elza Pais of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u171	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The criminal policy priorities for the two years 2020 - 2022, which the Government presents here today, stem from a deep analysis of the country's criminal reality, well portrayed in the recently disclosed Annual Internal Security Report, which shows that crime in Portugal has lower levels than the European Union's average. However, there are still phenomena with particular relevance that require emphasis, given the social impact they produce and the legal goods they offend. It is in this way that this bill gives the victim centrality, especially those particularly vulnerable, as is the case for victims of domestic violence, as well as for minors, elderly people and citizens with disabilities in the family context. As regards domestic violence, the highest value of the last 10 years was recorded in 2019, with an increase of 11, 5 % ( more than 3000 shares ). Even if we are faced with a territorialized "uncultation" of crime, as it seems, the strengthening of this priority is worthy of record, as well as the implementation and consolidation of measures, such as the intervention of OPCs within 72 hours following the complaint and the creation of the Database of Violence against Women and Domestic Violence (BDVMVD). Special emphasis also deserves, at the level of prevention and criminal investigation, the trend of transnational crime and cybercrime, in its different dimensions of materiality and gravity, where, as the Minister has already said, the significant increase in computer crime — more than 43 % — as well as the highly organized crime associated with trafficking in persons and narcotics. It is also worth mentioning the priority given to crimes against sexual self-determination and to crime motivated by racial or sexual discrimination, which, in the current national and global context, require particular attention, due to the emergence of disruptive phenomena and great social unrest to which they are associated. In the context of priority prevention, it is important to highlight: prevention of recurrence, which goes through the implementation of programmes to raise awareness of the illegality of conduct in order to avoid the practice of new crimes, such as the programmes for domestic violence aggressors; intervention actions in the context of rural fires; and the overall approach of proximity police, which are examples of the Safe School and the Elderly in Security. In conclusion, I would like to say that this bill ensures a line of continuity with respect to the previous law, as the Minister has already said, maintains close cooperation and coordination with the OPCs and renews the bet on procedural speed to guarantee the right to a decision in a reasonable time. However, given the current social changes and the demands to live in a new normality, caused by COVID-19, I would ask you, Minister, if you would not consider a new relevance to the crime of spread of disease.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u172	Mr André Coelho Lima, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u173	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Member of the Government, Minister of Justice: In fact, sometimes the laws oblige us to make certain diplomas, to have a certain frequency to reflect on certain matters, which, visibly, as we are checking here and I will already give reasons, we do so in an effort. I begin by saying that the criminal policy law we are considering here, which should refer to the period 2019 - 2020, refers to the period 2020 - 2022, because—we do not know why and would like to ask the Minister for this explanation — during the previous year we had a year without the validity of a criminal policy law. So if we have come here to say that it is very important that this diploma exists, that we analyze it and that we reflect on it, we also need to understand why we did not have it for a year. The same is said about the implementation report, which is for the Government, on the previous criminal policy law, which expired last year, and which arrived a week and a half ago in Parliament. In other words, the implementation report itself has now come to the very debate of the law of criminal policy, which means that it has not even been taken into account for the reflection necessary for the elaboration of it, as it was supposed to happen, i.e. that the implementation report would lead us to reflect on how the new law should be done. In addition to many things that come from the previous law for this, from sheet four or sheet five, as Mr. Minister prefers, we would still like to commend the fact that we maintain the catalogue in the law of criminal policy, for criminal phenomena and not for crimes, because the criminal typology is in the Criminal Code and the law of criminal policy addresses the phenomena of crime. This is very good, adopting, in fact, what had been innovative in the law of criminal policy 2015 - 2017. But if this is the case, if we are talking about phenomena, I would like to draw attention very briefly to Article 15. the, which refers to the crime of rural fire, crime that does not exist. What exists is the forest fire crime provided for in Article 274. the Criminal Code. Having said this, Mrs Minister, I would like to say—subscribing what Mr José Manuel Pureza said—that we cannot have 19 criminal phenomena of priority prevention, which corresponds to 101 crimes, and 18 criminal phenomena of priority research, which corresponds to 114 crimes. What that means, Mrs Minister, is that, in fact, we have almost a copy of the Penal Code here. For that, we do not need the law of criminal policy! by taking into the Criminal Code and making this a political document, rather than making, as we should, a document of real orientation of criminal policy, we are abdicating using this instrument for what it serves. I should like to conclude by saying the following: indeed, we must be able to approach these instruments as instruments of criminal policy guidance and, above all, pragmatic instruments.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u174	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u175	I will finish, Madam President. With the present means, with these two hundred crimes of research and priority prevention, such as the criminal policy bodies and the Members. Are magistrates of the Public Prosecutor's Office going to determine something as a priority? We will reach the following conclusion: when everything is a priority, nothing is a priority. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u176	Mr António Filipe of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u177	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mr Secretary of State, Mrs. Members: The CFP in 2006 voted against the approval of Law No. 17 / 2006, which is at the root of this bill, because it considers that in a State that is guided by the principle of legality in the exercise of criminal action this type of legislative diploma makes no sense. That was our position and, whenever we discuss in the Assembly of the Republic the proposal that the Government submits to comply with the provisions of this Law No 17/2006, it is more evident that this law makes no sense. In fact, the Government's obligation to submit a bill for the Assembly of the Republic to pass a law on the definition of objectives, priorities and guidelines on crime prevention, criminal investigation, criminal action, enforcement of penalties and security measures makes no sense. In the area of prevention, institutional mechanisms are established for the coordination of the various security forces which have the role of crime prevention — there is the Secretary-General of the Internal Security System, and there is the Higher Internal Security Council, and there are institutional mechanisms for this. For criminal investigation and criminal action, we do not think that the government is intrusive in criminal investigation. It concerns the judicial authorities, matters for the Attorney General's Office of the Republic and for the Public Prosecutor's Office. With regard to the enforcement of penalties and security measures, this is about judicial matters, matters for the courts and enforcement of penalties. So none of this makes sense. What happened — it must be said — was that in 2006 it was intended to pass a law against the Public Prosecutor's Office. That was the reason for the 2006 law : to suggest that the Attorney General of the Republic responds to the Assembly of the Republic. That was the meaning of the law of 2006 and from there it's all wrong. Therefore, the best service for the country would be to propose the repeal of Law No 17 / 2006. In fact, what do we have here? We have, as has already been said by some honourable Members. Members, a definition of priorities that has two perverse effects. The first is to be able to think that what is not priority is not investigated. In a state governed by the principle of legality, is it only investigated what is priority? Obviously not, you can't say that. The second is the power to think that, then, as it cannot be said, everything that is serious crime must be given priority. Well, you get the idea of putting them in alphabetical order, saying, "if everything is the priority, if there are no ones that are more priority than others, I could even present them in alphabetical order." No, I couldn't, because then there was terrorism below the ability to drive. It can't be! [[Rice from Members of the PSD and BE.]] So, what's the order? The order, Mrs. Minister, is media, and it shouldn't be. But I would say that the problem is not this bill.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u178	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u179	I conclude immediately, Madam President. The problem is what is behind it, which is the fact that there is Law No 17 / 2006, which, in our view, makes no sense and obliges us to make this figure, which is not very edifying either for the Assembly of the Republic or for criminal policy in Portugal. [[Congratulations from the PCP and Mr José Manuel Pureza.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u180	Mr Telmo Correia, from the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u181	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, Secretary of State : Mrs Minister, indeed, as has been said here but it is not new — I was exchanging this impression with the honourable Members. Members of the Social Democratic Party — I remember that as early as 2017, I myself told you exactly that, in the midst of such a priority, it is impossible to choose what is effectively priority. This is an absolute truth that neither the previous proposals of this law nor the present one escape, as has been said here by several parliamentary groups. It is an indisputable truth. In addition, Madam Minister, I would like to ask you the following: even if you have probably not reflected all the previous experience, as has been said here, has this document still, or has it not, given a certain reversal of the trend we have had in the area of crime? This trend reversal is particularly evident, including in the last RASI. We must not forget that we have an increase in violent crime, that we have more crimes, such as theft, with 30% increase, such as kidnapping or kidnapping, with close to 25% increase, and that we have, above all, as I have already had occasion to draw your attention, Mrs Minister, to more crimes committed by increasingly young people, especially in the context of juvenile crime or group violence. These are real concerns, all the more so, since you alone — 'only' is an expression — the protection of the judicial police and not the protection of the security forces themselves, we have this increase of crime knowing that at the same time we have fewer police officers and that this is a fact that, in some cases, it is even perceived by the criminal agents themselves. That is, we have more crimes and less police and more crimes committed by younger people. It seems to us particularly important in this context, and the CDS has recently brought the issue to this House that the crimes committed against security forces agents — the formula of the law is "against" or "by", which is correct, from our point of view — are priority, both in terms of prevention and in terms of research. This is correct and we do not argue, but I asked you whether you do not understand that crimes against the public authority, in the context of health emergency or civil protection, being of priority research, should not also be considered as a priority prevention. Crimes committed against security forces agents should be the essential objective of criminal policy in our view. In the middle of this extended picture, as we have said, I ask you, however, Mrs Minister, whether the crime of drug trafficking comes from the crimes of priority prevention and why. We don't think it makes much sense.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u182	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u183	I shall finish, Madam President, with agreement on support for the victim and, in particular, in support of the victim of domestic violence. We have also proposed the support offices here, and we agree that there is an evolution that we have seen and that is positive.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u184	You have the floor, for an intervention, Mrs.Cristina Rodrigues did not register.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u185	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In today's proposal we highlight the strengthening of the protection of particularly vulnerable victims, particularly in the case of domestic violence crimes or crimes against sexual freedom and self-determination, with the provision of specific programmes to prevent recurrence and strengthen the policing of proximity, in particular because they are crimes that are still well present in our society. Then we would also like to mention the commitment to combat crime against the environment, the consecration of rural fire crimes and trafficking in protected species as priority research crimes. To date, the prevention and combating of crimes against the environment has been clearly insufficient, as evidenced by the decrease, according to RASI, of monitoring actions in 2019. We hope that this prioritization will be a reality and that the State will achieve, in a country that each year suffers both from fires and constant environmental damage, finally respond effectively to the defense of ecosystems and biodiversity.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u186	You have the floor, Mr Ventura, for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u187	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister : We have come to a policy which, as has already been said, presents us with dozens or, better, more than one hundred types of crimes. It is the same as saying that nothing is a priority in Portugal. But still, it would be important to make a balance sheet of what we had. I don't usually quote Left Block Members, but I'm going to do it today. Indeed, as Mr. José Manuel Pureza said... [[Mr José Manuel Pureza's laughs.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u188	Let it go, it's not necessary!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u189	You do well from time to time! How did Mr. José Manuel Pureza ask, where is the balance sheet of the last regulation? For example, one of the elements that this regulation defines is that municipal safety councils and security forces should develop specific programmes for these types of priority prevention crimes. What's the balance sheet we make of this? What is the balance sheet we make of the last policy? Do we have this data or do we not have that data? We don't understand.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u190	We have!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u191	Finally, I would also like to tell you that if there was any priority to be set in Portugal, it should be the fight against the increase in violent crime. We had more sexual crimes — almost 2, 8% in the number of violations — we had more carjacking, we had more crimes against the security forces. This should be our priority and not, as well as corruption and crimes of an economic and fiscal nature. It's just that I want to do everything as a priority is not to do anything as a priority.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u192	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u193	I will finish, Madam President. Mr António Filipe, then does not realize that democratic power sets out guidelines for criminal policy? Don't we have scarce resources?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u194	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u195	I shall conclude, Madam President. in a world where police resources are scarce, can't the democratic power say what is most important and what is not? Is everything the same, on an equal footing, in the world in which we live?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u196	You have the floor to close this debate, Mr. Under-Secretary of State and Internal Administration, Mr. Antero Luís, which I take advantage of to greet.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u197	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In fact, priorities can be discussed - but this law is not exactly the old law and I will just highlight some aspects that I think deserve to be highlighted. From then on, the directives of the Attorney-General of the Republic can be territorially demarcated, and demarcated over time; secondly, the role of the municipal safety councils becomes there in the law, which did not happen in the past; thirdly, in the DIAP ( Departments of Research and Criminal Action) there are sections specialized in domestic violence; fourthly, there are specific programmes to avoid recurrence in cases of domestic violence; fifthly, special programmes to prevent recurrence are extended throughout the national territory, which did not exist in the past only in some prisons.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u198	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u199	But there's more news. We must not forget that, in the old law, there were no plans for joint prevention teams within the framework of the Secretary-General, who are now back in the law, as they were in the past. On the other hand, the scope of asset recovery is extended. If you notice, there is not only what is in the Asset Recovery Office, first extending to all situations of the Criminal Code and in relation to all types of crime. So I would say that the law is not exactly the same. We can discuss the crimes. In fact, there are many priority crimes, it is true. But I would ask, looking at them, who would be excluded. What would they be?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u200	What do you propose? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u201	It's just that we can't forget, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, what is at stake is to give priority in the investigation, trial and decision in the higher courts. Another novelty, which did not exist in the previous law, is that now the process is one, from the beginning to the end. The priority is no longer limited to the investigation, it goes to the Supreme Court of Justice. So I wouldn't say the law is the same. There may be many crimes in the priorities, but there is also the question of drugs in Article 4. o point ( b ).
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u202	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u203	In fact, we can discuss this, but the reality we have, of the Annual Internal Security Reports, affects exactly from the point of view of their problem, about these crimes and not about others. So if it is about these crimes, we would say that we define — I fear it repeated — the priority of crimes every two years. But there are new realities right there. Some of these crimes, and they're several, weren't in the last law. This means that you don't make a copy/paste or order crimes in alphabetical order. That's not it, obviously. Firstly, an analysis of crime trends is made on the basis of the two Annual Internal Security Reports and the evaluation made at European level, and on the basis of this information, priorities are established. There was also concern, from the point of view of the enforcement of the law, about establishing mechanisms that make it, in fact, more effective; from there these developments that I mentioned and that did not exist in the past.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u204	I ask you to conclude, Mr Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u205	I shall conclude, Madam President. I am convinced that these improvements, of course, will bring about a better enforcement of the law. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u206	We move on to the seventh item on our agenda, with the general discussion of the Bill No 49 / XIV / 1. a — Promotes the simplification of various administrative procedures, including local authorities, and introduces amendments to the Code of Administrative Procedure. For an intervention, the Minister for Modernization of the State and Public Administration, Alexandra Leitão, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u207	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: A reality that the crisis we are experiencing has become evident was that of the importance of both robust and agile public administration, able to give rapid response to new challenges. After the confinement imposed by the COVID-19 pandemic and the consequent slowdown in economic activity, it is now imperative to ensure greater speed of administrative procedures, as a way to enable public and private investment. Within the framework of the Economic and Social Stabilization Programme, the Government has proposed an exceptional, ultra-simplified regime of public administration procedures to be implemented by the end of this year. Thus, the proposal before us today determines the holding of deliberative procedural conferences, with a view to the simultaneous issuance of all administrative opinions and acts necessary for the practice of final acts in complex procedures involving several administrative entities. This rule also applies to procedures involving, jointly, entities of the direct and indirect administration of the State and the local authorities or inter-municipal entities, through regular procedural conferences, within the framework of the inter-municipal and metropolitan communities, competing with the convening of them to the chairman of the respective regional coordination and development committee (CCD). This proposal also introduces specific amendments to the Code of Administrative Procedure, with a view to clarifying some aspects of time-limits, including a shortening of the decision-making deadlines of the Public Administration, as well as adapting some rules to the generalization of the use of telematics, with a view to speeding up and simplifying administrative procedures. in this matter, what is intended is to adapt the performance of the Administration to the current reality, making use of the technology to ensure more effective responses. It is intended that the simplification to be adopted in this proposal of the law will result in gains in process analysis time as well as in job and resource gains, allowing for an indirect reduction of costs for all stakeholders, in particular for individuals and businesses, who are the recipients of the administrative action. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u208	The Bureau has not yet registered any parliamentary group. I would ask the various parliamentary groups to join us, so that there will be no waste of time. [[Pause.]] Mr Bebiana Cunha, from the Parliamentary Group of the PAN, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u209	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This proposal for a government law is intended to adapt the administrative procedure to the contingencies of the health crisis. As the Government states in the Economic and Social Stabilization Programme, we are talking about a « Simplex SOS », which is very urgent, in particular with regard to the adaptation of the Code of Administrative Procedure to the new reality of distance meetings, brought about by the context we have experienced. The generalized forecast of the possibility of public administration bodies can also be gathered via telematics, obviously, more secure, prevents us from re-appropriating ad hoc legislation in the case of the epidemiological situation from becoming worse, and, above all, allows the recommendations of the DGS, with regard to social distance, to continue to apply in the Public Administration. On the other hand, it also seems to us that the legal forecast of the possibility of public authorities being able to use the figure of the procedural conferences by the end of the year is positive. We therefore believe that we are ensuring, within the applicable legal framework, administrative decisions, coordination between public entities and, above all, a smoothing of the administrative procedure, which will make it, at the same time, more economical. We are talking about the institution of a mechanism inspired by the Italian legal order and which has been provided for in the law since 2015, but which since that date has rarely come out of the paper. With this proposal from the Government, which we are accompanying, there is a final impulse to this figure, which could be useful for good administration and also for better administrative procedure. However, we would like to stress that the deadline for this figure seems too short to us, since public entities will hardly be able to adapt to this model in such a short time, so we call on the Government to make a double investment to ensure its operation, otherwise we are at risk of not seeing it out of the paper. in a final note, to stress that we also consider a positive mechanism for monitoring and evaluating the application of this law, because, of course, it will allow us to see how it runs and corrects what needs to be corrected. We have left the Minister a challenge to ensure that Parliament has access to these monitoring and evaluation data so that we can also play our part in what is to be proposed with a view to improving the functioning of this figure.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u210	Mr José Cancela Moura of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u211	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government and Members of the Commission. Members: For the PSD, modernisation and digitisation of the Public Administration are imperative, in order to give a faster and more effective response to citizens and businesses. But the government has simplified this initiative so much that the bill was hardly a diploma. If it were a request, the services would have difficulty accepting it; if it were a tax guide, the distribution could not liquidate it; and if it were a petition in the court, I assume that it would deserve a final order of indifference. Mr. President and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not a question of the goodness of simplifying procedures, but, after having passed the confinement, after reopening public services, after having resumed the possible normality of services, what is the reason for this emergency of the Government to replace mandatory opinions or statements by conferences, to replace licensing regimes with prior communications and to replace present decisions by electronic processing of procedures? These are explanations for the government to give here and now. On the other hand, this initiative entered the Assembly of the Republic last day 1, it was distributed to the committee responsible on 7 and two days later it is discussed in plenary without mandatory opinions and without any study or decision which is fundamental to it, in clear violation of formal and regulatory requirements. This rush to legislate cannot be understood or achieved. Therefore, by taking out the municipal regulations and environmental impact studies, all other procedures — for example, individual works licensing — can be decided by means of telematics and in procedural conferences. But this 'Simple SOS', as the government calls it, instead of making it easier, can complicate the lives of citizens. Mr. President and Mrs. Members, we are surprised that the right of prior hearing of interested parties is exercised orally and at the same session where all participating bodies will be present. We also find it strange that the lack of powers of those who represent a participating entity to decide is equivalent to an absence, but at the same time be considered for the purposes of verifying the operating quorum. We are also surprised that, under a procedure involving participating entities in a single local authority, in particular, and the administration, directly or indirectly, is a third party to this relationship, in particular the President of the CCDR, to convene the conference. Will these misconceptions be lags of legislative wording or express intentions of the Government? The Government and the Minister should make it clear here and now. This health crisis has shown evidence of the need to increase the contribution of new technologies to simplify procedures. But the adoption of a solution as hasty as this, in order to save us from the pandemic, will have to be corrected so as not to put us in a real pandemony.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u212	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u213	I shall conclude, Madam President. It is therefore in the hands of the Government to ensure the success, provenance or inconceivableness of this initiative. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u214	Mr Cecilia Meireles of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u215	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mr State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members: The aim of this bill is to simplify procedures. As for the objective, we fully agree. I have some doubts that this objective of simplification and streamlining procedures is achieved with this project. I therefore believe that, in the field of specialty, there will have to be quite strict work. There are some doubts, however, that I should like to clarify now, in general discussion. Simplification of procedures is an objective that exists independently of the pandemic. It is absolutely necessary and has been postponed many times. Therefore, the first doubt that I would like to clarify, and which seems more relevant to me, is why Chapter II, « Simplification of Procedures », is merely temporary. Why is it expected that it will last for only a few months? What was essential here — and it is mentioned that this measure is part of the Economic and Social Stabilization Programme — was precisely that the measures which can be taken, especially those which can be taken without budgetary costs and which improve the lives of the Portuguese and speed up the economy, were already taken. I can't understand why a part of simplification only has to work for a few months. In addition, if we are talking about some public health emergency, I do not understand, frankly, why it makes itself feel now, in the stabilization phase, and did not exist in the emergency phase.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u216	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u217	This doesn't make sense and has to be very well explained. You begin to see a pattern that I find particularly worrisome. As far as public procurement is concerned, it is also said that it is the aim of the government to simplify it. I understand that, with public tender which takes a year, it is difficult to do it in this way, but what was also understood in this regime is that there are three or four exceptions: if it is for housing, there are no rules anymore; if it is to apply European funds, there are no rules anymore. If we come to the conclusion that our rules are too complex, then perhaps it makes sense to do a work that is deeper but which, once and for all, simplifies them rather than constantly creating remedies and then creating exceptional regimes. I conclude by stressing the importance of being very careful with the creation of exceptional schemes. We continue to go through a pandemic phase, but we have already passed the emergency phase and Portugal is a country with a problem of mistrust in relation to the public power and, in particular, in relation to the seriousness with which the decisions are made. The vision of the overwhelming majority of Portuguese is that there is indeed corruption in public decision-making and in public procurement. The creation of exceptional regimes prolongs a state of mistrust and generates a suspicion about those who make these decisions that is not strictly healthy for anyone, neither for the way in which public power is exercised, nor for society in general.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u218	For an intervention, Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u219	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in this period we have already been living for a few months, we believe that there is a need for no obstacle to the procedures of the Public Administration so that a set of processes can be developed and continued, so that they are not stopped and so there are delays. We therefore understand, in this context and in these circumstances, the proposal brought by the Government, which proposes the simplification of a set of procedures, creating this figure of the conference, seeking agility. There is, however, a number of aspects in this proposal that bring us concerns, which we wanted to talk about. The proposal also provides for a set of definitive amendments to the Code of Administrative Procedure. These changes are the consequence of these times that we live in, but it seems to us that some of these matters would require more caution in their elaboration and in their proposal, because one thing is, in exceptional times, to admit exceptional measures for the public administration to function and another is to make permanent what must be exceptional. I do not want to say that something moves us against the use of technologies to improve the efficiency of public administration, but for example, I would like to point out one of the aspects that this proposal brings, in particular, on which we have doubts about the functioning of the institutions. At some point he proposed in the amendment to Article 29. that of the Code of Administrative Procedure, which the collegial bodies can only decide when the majority of their members with the right to vote are physically present or participating through telematic means. In other words, the power of vote is also able to be exercised remotely and not at present. In college bodies, this generates concerns and doubts. We can, within the limits, have two members present and all the other members at a distance in a collegiate body. The fact that the voting power can be exercised in this way, according to the proposal that the Government brings, I confess that for the CFP it does not seem the most appropriate solution, since in this particular case it is no longer an exceptional measure, but rather a proposal that the Government brings to be present in the Code of Administrative Procedure in a definitive way. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u220	For an intervention, Mr Fernando Paulo Ferreira of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u221	Madam President, Minister for Modernization of the State and Public Administration, Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, ladies and gentlemen. Members : It presents to Parliament a proposal for a law aimed at administrative simplification of procedures in which various public entities intervene, seeking to expedite and make mandatory joint and decision-making meetings, with the possibility of using videoconferencing, especially in cases where there are several opinions and opinions to be obtained until the final decision is taken. This proposal even establishes, in the case of local authorities and inter-municipal entities, periodic procedural conferences, competing with their regular call to the President of their respective CCDR. This simplified regime, which is included in the ongoing modernisation effort of the Public Administration, also results from the Economic and Social Stabilization Programme and starts at an experimental stage until December this year, and can be continued after a proper assessment of its impact. At first, expectations are great, especially from individuals who saw the procedures in which they were concerned suspended or delayed, via the COVID-19, or because they simply await opinions from different entities, whose speed of decision is sometimes very disparate. As regards the use of videoconferencing for meetings, its determination is perennial, resulting from the positive experience that many public entities have already implemented in the field in recent months. At the plenary today, we had the opportunity to discuss the continuity of meetings of the local bodies through telematics. It is therefore good for the Government to take advantage of new technologies to make public services more effective and to make life easier for citizens. The years of experience and good results of the Simplex program, among others, and the ability demonstrated by the central and local authorities to adapt themselves to new ways of working and deciding - give us the expectation that this path came to stay. to the citizens and companies who will see the administrative procedures in which they have more agile interest, it is given them greater dynamic and confidence, and this, after all, is the best way of quickly injecting energy into society, as necessary for the phase of economic and social recovery that we all want. It will therefore count on the Government, therefore, with the support of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group on this further initiative. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u222	For an intervention, Mr André Ventura, of the Arrival, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u223	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister for Modernization of the State and Public Administration: The legislation that brings us to sin essentially because, in fact, one of the major problems with which entrepreneurs and civil society have faced over the past few months has been excessive bureaucracy, the excessive delay on the part of the government in coming to them when it was most needed. In any case, there are doubts that we need to clarify, for example, the fact that mandatory opinions are replaced by conferences. How are we going to do this without precluding general law and fundamental law? It says redundant things, such as this: in order to have a vote, the majority of the legal membership must be present, in principle. Of course, in principle, the majority of members must be present. But it is more worrying to say that there must now be a maximum time limit for opinions. The new law says it's 20 days. But what are the consequences if this does not happen? We don't know. More: it says that private own-initiative procedures must be completed at the end of 60 days. All right. What are the consequences if this does not happen? We don't know either. That is why it is a redundant law which will, in fact, bring little in terms of simplification, raise deeper legal issues than those which resolve and which fall late in the fundamental objective.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u224	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u225	I will finish, Madam President. In other words, it fails essentially, confuses the accessory and transits even more confusion over the aspects it could solve.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u226	To close the debate, Mr. Minister for Modernization of the State and Public Administration, Alexandra Leitão.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u227	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I think we should understand each other. Is it too simple a law that sins late, or is it, on the contrary, a law, as was also said, that violates the rights of the administrations? Or, perhaps, we really want a law that is itself so complicated, so complicated, that no one understands it. But let us, then, resolve several of the questions that have been raised. The gentlemen. Mr Ventura and Mr Cancela Moura did not read well, when they said that mandatory opinions were damaged, because they do not stay! Article 6 ( 2 ). that of the Law states that, when the opinion is mandatory, it is necessary for the body issuing the mandatory opinion to give a favourable opinion in the vote. Therefore, what is mandatory and binding remains compulsory and binding. in the same way, it is also said that when you cannot be present, this does not harm the quorum, because we cannot have a situation in which, due to lack of quorum, things do not move forward, but it is also said that it is necessary to be present who has to issue these opinions. I assure you that neither in the ultra-simplified part nor in the amendment to the CPA the administered ones lose any guarantees. If you look carefully, the only deadlines that are moved in the CPA are those of the Administration, to shorten those of the Administration. There are several rules that even give more guarantees to the administrators. For example, in the matter of procedure instruction, where, before, it was said that only what was public and notorious is that there was no evidence for the individual, it is now said that there is no proof for the particular one that everything the Administration can obtain alone. Everyone fills their mouths to say that the Administration does not have to ask the individuals what they already have, but when someone wants to make a change to the CPA in this matter something, it seems, confuses those present here.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u228	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u229	Note this: the ultrasymplified mechanism has a shorter duration to be monitored, just to see how it runs. The procedural conferences are nothing new, there have been in CPA since 2015. The oral hearing of the interested parties, Mr President, simply refers to Article 80. the CPA, which is the general law. So, in that matter, we didn't innovate. [[PSD Member Protests José Cancela Moura.]] Having said this, it is an important diploma so that the economic consequences of the pandemic can be answered. When the Administration wants to be speedy, that is not the Assembly of the Republic not to leave. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u230	I use to say goodbye to Mrs. Minister. We turn to point 8 of our agenda, which deals with the general discussion of the Bill No 48 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Establishs the tax regime of UEFA Champions League 2019 / 2020 competition organizers and extends the tax exemption on value added in intra-Community transmissions and acquisitions of goods necessary for the fight against COVID-19 disease. For an intervention, Mr. Under-Secretary of State and Tax Affairs, Antonio Mendonça Mendes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u231	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The proposal for a law which we have brought to the attention of the Assembly of the Republic deals with two matters. On the one hand, extend the exemption from VAT ( value added tax) of intra-Community acquisitions of equipment intended to combat COVID-19. This is a measure which Portugal has adopted following the decision of the European Commission and which aims to create this same measure for imports. Therefore, on the basis of the principle of neutrality, which is a basic principle of VAT, in the sense of non-distortion of competition, we believe that, also in intra-Community procurement, we should take this initiative, which was approved by the Assembly of the Republic and which ended on 30 June. Since it was extended by the European Commission to 31 October, this is the proposal we brought to the Assembly of the Republic. On the other hand, we bring forward a proposal on the tax regime for the completion of the Champions in Portugal, organised by UEFA ( Union of European Football Associations ). Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this is a sporting event of the greatest importance, an event transmitted worldwide, an event accompanied by millions of people. Like what happened in other similar circumstances, we have created a tax regime that ensures, firstly, uniformity in the treatment of organizers and participants, whether they are from which country; secondly, reciprocity in the application of the tax measure that benefits Portuguese clubs which also participate in UEFA competitions; and thirdly, simplification of procedures in the application of mechanisms for the elimination of conventions to avoid double taxation. This is therefore a tax regime that has already been adopted in Portugal more than once, it is adopted in other countries when such competitions are organised and let me say, Mrs and Mrs. Members, that the realization of this event in the current context becomes even more important to promote and project the image of our country. We are all committed to the early recovery of economic activity by the country. I am at the disposal of the Members. Members to answer the questions they understand. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u232	I'm asking the ladies. Members of the various parliamentary groups to intervene, as I only have an inscription from Mrs Lina Lopes of the PSD. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u233	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, Mr and Mr. Members: The allocation to Portugal of responsibility for organizing the end of the UEFA competition, to be held in August, Lisbon, with the possibility of holding some games in port and Guimarães, is something that the PSD considers positive either for the promotion of the country's image or in particular for the visibility of the cities receiving them. We hope that the benefits obtained at this event will justify and far exceed the losses resulting from the vast tax exemptions that the Government intends to grant to non-residents of Portugal, as an exchange currency for the performance of this competition. In a country so dependent on foreign investment, these tax exemptions accepted instantly by the government when imposed by the world of football strongly contrast with the perception repeated by national and foreign investors that the tax system is extremely unfair and an obstacle to the country's competitiveness. It seems that everything becomes very simple when it is football, the all-powerful, demanding tax exemptions! Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is well known that our extreme dependence on tourism is becoming increasingly worrying, for which the PSD has been alerting, with the consequences of the precariousness and wage levels of employment, which makes the structure of our economy increasingly similar to that of a non-European country. With the current pandemic crisis, the recovery of tourist confidence will not happen immediately and therefore, in the short term, incentives are imposed for the development of local tourism markets, i.e. residents in Portugal. Thus, the exemptions granted to foreign residents, which the Government is so quick to approve for UEFA, are opposed to non-freedoms and the brutal burden of taxes that residents are forced to bear. In other words, the Government must explain the rationality and legitimacy of such tax exemptions before a population crushed by the huge tax burden defended by the same government and its supporters, today intermittent but still demanding, from the left parliament. Mrs. Members, workers of companies living in Portugal may feel disappointed by the ease with which the government is quick to exempt from such a large number of non-resident taxes, which do not find that they experience difficulties comparable to those of residents in Portugal. This government imposes the biggest tax burden ever...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u234	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u235	... and it is regrettable that you have not had the same attention and sensitivity with Portuguese families and companies as you now show, on the occasion of this sporting event, with non-residents. Let us therefore hope that everything will be done to ensure that the return of this sport activity corresponds to the desired activity. It is essential that at this event all stakeholders respect the health rules arising from the COVID-19. This requires much more effective action by the DGS and the authorities than, unfortunately, has been observed in recent times. I therefore ask: has the government taken or will it take specific measures for these competitions to ensure public health and avoid epidemic outbreaks? A final note to say that we accompany and welcome the second part of this bill, which extends until 31 October the exemption of VAT for intra-Community transmissions and acquisitions of goods necessary to combat the effects of the outbreak of COVID-19. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u236	For an intervention, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u237	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, Mr. Members: I do not think I need the whole « liberal minute » to tell you that they do not have the Liberal Initiative to approve a favourable tax regime for certain foreign entities such as UEFA, while the Portuguese continue to live under the weight of a record tax burden, above all in times of crisis. One thing is to avoid any double premium or income taxes, this can make sense when the economic return of the event justifies it, which is not even the case because it is unlikely that, since there is no public in the stadiums, the return exists. Another thing, quite different, is to attribute this exemption unequally. A security company hired abroad by one of the teams is exempt from tax, if the Portuguese security company is hired here to pay tax. Either they're all free or none of them are! It is another case, like several, that the Liberal Initiative has denounced one country, two systems. It's not new! While Portuguese have several and high IRS rates, non-residents have a single 20% rate; while Portuguese have to pay taxes, political parties are exempt from the same rate. Now ask for this sad show to go to football, used by system politicians to distract the people from the pandemic! We, liberals, advocates of equality before the law, will show the "red card" to this proposal.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u238	For an intervention, Mr André Ventura, of the Arrival, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u239	Madam President, the government announced that Champions was a prize for health professionals. After all, we know that it is above all a prize for the organizers at the end of the Champions, because, apart from the European Supertaça, we also have all the tax-free organizers both at the IRS headquarters and at the head of IRC (tax on the income of the collectives ). The same ones that have the highest rates in Europe in Portugal are now exempted from a specific organisation. But, Mr Secretary of State, is there an issue that I want to know, but which does not have to do with taxation: this exemption was, or was it not, a requirement of UEFA to bring Champions to Portugal? That's what the Portuguese want to know. The exemption was, or not, an imposition made from the UEFA headquarters for the Champions to take place in Portugal? It is not even understood how such an exemption applies only to non-residents in Portugal, i.e. the same organizers — medical staff, security personnel, professional sports teams — if they are residents in Portugal have to pay taxes, but if they are residents outside they no longer pay taxes benefiting from the exemption. We therefore ask whether the Government is prepared to make this amendment. It was at least the minimum of justice that could be done to a country that has already paid the highest tax burden in Europe.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u240	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u241	I shall conclude, Madam President. Above all, would you like to ask Mr State Secretary why this is particularly important: was the exemption a requirement of UEFA to bring Champions to Portugal or not?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u242	For an intervention, Mr Carlos Brás of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u243	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: This bill, submitted by the Government, has a double objective, one being the creation of a temporary tax regime applicable to the organizers and participants in the 2019 / 2020 Final Champions League competition, and the other amending the deadline provided for in Article 5. o Law No 13 / 2020 of 7 May. As for the creation of the tax regime of the UEFA Champions League 2019 / 2020 competition organizers, I must point out that it corresponds to the usual in similar situations...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u244	It's not usual!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u245	... and consists of the creation of a special exemption scheme within IRC and IRS for income obtained in Portuguese territory by participants in this competition, be organizers, associations, football clubs, players or even technicians. It is the same as the one created at the time of the realization in Portugal of the Euro 2004 and the finals of the UEFA Champions League and UEFA Women’s Champion League 2013 / 2014. It is therefore a temporary, partial tax exemption dedicated to an event and it is a common condition for UEFA to apply for this exemption from the countries that organise the finals. To make it clear that this is not the creation of a new and targeted tax benefit for football, it is important to be aware that, since institutions and actors mostly foreign and European actors are involved, they themselves would already be entitled to this exemption through the conventions to avoid double taxation. What this diploma is doing is simplifying procedures and avoiding the need to invoke these conventions and to act on those benefits. Moreover, it is common in all the finals that UEFA promotes in all countries. Portugal's choice to organize this is the largest European sporting event is a cause of pride for all Portuguese, reinforces Portugal's international prestige and places us once again in the market of events of great media projection. This is therefore an appropriate, justified, reasonable and proportionate proposal. The other component of this proposal, which relates to the VAT exemption for intra-Community shipments and acquisitions of goods, amends the period initially stipulated by 31 July for the purchase of protective equipment and equipment intended to combat the outbreak of COVID-19. It is good to note that this material is intended to be distributed free of charge and will therefore benefit from an exemption in intra-Community procurement and transmissions, following what the European Commission has decided by Decision No 2020 / 491. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u246	Mr Duarte Alves of the CFP Parliamentary Group spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u247	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: The Government submits a bill establishing a specific tax regime for the final phase of UEFA Champions League, exempting from the payment of IRS and IRC the revenues collected by event organizers, country associations and sports clubs and their players, as well as the technical teams participating in them, who are not considered tax residents in Portugal. There are at least three examples of this situation: the first one set out in the State budget for the year 2000 on the organisational entities of the Euro 2004 ; the second one on two final UEFA competitions, which took place in Lisbon in 2014 ; and the third one on the end of the National Cup in 2019, was not so long ago. In all these situations, the CFP abstained and raised a set of questions, which the reality has shown that they need to find a consistent response. In addition to the justification based on the commitments made with UEFA — is the justification that is in the explanatory statement of the proposed law — what justifies this exemption when the tax codes explicitly state that the income derived from the exercise in Portuguese territory from the activity of show or sports professionals is subject to tax payments? Why is it chosen to exempt only the events of certain sports modes and, within this mode, only a concrete event and not all similar events of all sports modes? Why is it chosen to exempt sports activities and exclude the activities of show professionals, even though the IRS and IRC Codes treat these activities on an equal footing? Why are successive governments legislating the petition instead of proposing a general scheme of exemptions covering sporting events or performance professionals considered particularly relevant to the country? These are issues that we put in 2000, in 2014, in 2019 and which maintain all relevance. We are available to make this debate, which is more comprehensive, which allows us to find solutions that guarantee more justice and tax equity, without any discrimination between sports modes and sporting events and other events, including cultural performances. Although we do not intend to make the conduct of sporting events of international relevance in our country impossible — whether they are more or less popular, depending on the circumstances — we believe that this approach must be made more comprehensive and not a case-by-case approach, which can lead to tax injustices in the face of other events, other modalities and other shows. For these reasons, and also expressing our agreement with the extension of the VAT exemption in the goods necessary to combat the COVID-19 which are intended for State bodies, we remain abstention from the Government's proposal. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u248	Mr Luís Monteiro, from the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u249	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Government, in the image of last year – and we have already made this debate here in plenary, presents a proposal to exempt economic agents from IRC and IRS related to the organization of the final of the Champions League, this time in 2020, in Portugal. Looking at the explanation of reasons for the bill, I would take advantage of a few words from the second paragraph to see what the government is justifying, even if this is the case, since, as these situations arise, we are going to know new arguments. However, this is particularly important for the debate we are doing because of the pandemic situation we live in. It says the explanation of reasons which the Government presents: « I pay attention to the tourist and economic interest underlying this competition,... » — in the absence of tourists, there will be no followers — «... in particular at the level of the image which, through it, the Country will design abroad at this particular moment for Portugal ». The proposal that the Government brings here is based on a certain volunteerism on the economic returns at the end of the Champions League. The government wants us to believe that there will be a correct return and that the end of the Champions League, without followers and, most likely, without practically anyone who does not the lisboets themselves in the city of Lisbon, will have a fantastic economic return to the country. The government is saying that a closed-door competition will guarantee this and I think we all realize that this proposal, more than optimistic, is really voluntary. I believe that, almost a year ago, Mr. Secretary of State for Tax Affairs used the same argument as double taxation and, at the time, that was the debate we had here. He assured the Secretary of State that these economic agents were already taxed in their countries of origin and that it would therefore make no sense to be taxed here. Well, there's an argument and a question here. The question is whether Mr. Secretary of State can tell the plenary and give today the assurance that the economic agents who were not taxed last year paid taxes in their countries. It was important that I could guarantee this here, because if there are any background, that argument is important. The argument on the issue of double taxation has to do with the fact that we ourselves know that one of the mechanisms UEFA has used, particularly in organizing these events, is precisely tax evasion, because we know that economic agents say they pay taxes in their country of origin, but then their country of origin says they have to pay in the country where this economic activity has been carried out. So, in fact, they don't pay them anywhere! What the Government is proposing here, again, is a kind of street offshore, in which these agents are never taxed anywhere. We could even discuss the relevance of a tax exemption, regardless of double taxation and economic return.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u250	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u251	I will finish, Madam President. What makes this debate even more serious this year is the fact that we know that in the real economy we will not have any return: the stadium will be empty, people will see the game on television, there will be no tourists during these days to see the sports show.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u252	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u253	I will finish, Madam President. So it really becomes a government volunteerism. If, a year ago, we had reservations, it seems to me that this year it is very clear what our idea is. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u254	For an intervention, Mrs Cecilia Meireles of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u255	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: This diploma deals with two subjects which have very little to do with each other, except that they are both on tax matters. If, on the one hand, it deals with the extension of VAT exemption time in intra-Community transmissions and acquisitions of goods that have to do with the fight against COVID-19 — something which I believe deserves no objection or doubts from virtually no one — on the other hand, it deals with a tax exemption for the finals of the Champions. In fact, he asked for confirmation of this fact, that is, if this exemption is requested from any country that offers to organize these events and has already been granted by Portugal in the organization of these events. On this issue of the end, there are several issues that need to be made clear. First, the completion of these finals was announced by the President of the Republic and by the Prime Minister with a pump and circumstances, i.e. by the first and third figures of the Portuguese State. It's a political choice, but rebuttable. Mr. Prime Minister even said that they were a deserved award for health professionals—until I am going to refrain from commenting on this sentence further. Secondly, this image, this announcement and these statements by the Prime Minister correspond to a strategy that the Portuguese Government decided to adopt in the defination: on the one hand, of internal propaganda and, on the other hand, of external image. Now, having spent some time now, I think it is good for us to know that this strategy has failed, that it has had bad and serious consequences. The strategy was wrong, it went wrong and the consequences are serious. Portugal is from the countries of Europe, not to say the world, where tourism has one of the biggest weights in GDP ( gross domestic product ). at present, we are on the blacklist of the United Kingdom, Austria, Cyprus, Lithuania, Bulgaria, Greece, Belgium and Finland. This is our external image! The consequence of this will be that the recession will be deeper than what was inevitable in the first phase of the pandemic. If there had been less care and less commitment to the ads, if this care and commitment had been kept in defining, if, instead of going to political demonstrations, instead of going to the beach, instead of giving absolutely contradictory signs to the Portuguese, saying that they could do everything and that there should no longer be care of anything, we could now not be discussing what we are discussing, that is, a much deeper recession than what would have to happen, in the face of the pandemic. This is because of the external image of Portugal, which has to do with the results we have to present and with the current situation. So instead of discussing this proposal, I think it would be better, for example, to work in the committee that the CDS here proposed — which was approved — to follow up on COVID and to understand how we turn this external image around and, above all, how we turn this situation around so that there will not be people getting sick, but that they do not have to be sick because of a wrong strategy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u256	I would ask you to conclude, Mrs Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u257	in this matter, and because it has to do with this, I would like to make this position of the CDS clear.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u258	Mr André Silva of the PAN Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u259	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretary of State : Today, the government, with skill, brings us to the discussion a bill that integrates two measures in the tax field: the extension of the period of application of the VAT exemption scheme for the purchase of goods necessary to combat the health crisis — and well — and the allocation of a tax voucher to UEFA, due to the completion of the Champions League in our country. If the first step is to establish common sense, the second is to face all citizens. The position of the NAP regarding the League of Champions is known: we understand that, in the current context of health crisis, the performance of the test can be a risk of bringing thousands of people to our country, from the teams involved, to their staff, passing through a battalion of journalists and ending up in the fans who, even if they do not attend the games, will not stop following their teams unless the government forbids it. We are still looking to see if the number of people coming to watch the Champions League is not going to be greater than the number of young people that the government has prevented from making any improvement in the score with the health crisis argument. Contrary to what happened in the case of the Euro 2004 or the 2018 Eurovision Festival, it is doubtful to us that in the current context the Champions League brings relevant advantages to our economy or that advertising to our country has a useful effect—should it even have an opposite effect. Therefore, positive externalities are at least doubtful. For this reason, for the NAP, these tax havens to UEFA and the football clubs, proposed by the government, are immoral at a time when, due to the consequences of the pandemic, food lines at the door of institutions do not stop to increase, in which millions of Portuguese are in cuts in wages, where bankruptcy and unemployment are growing every day and when the government and PS say there is no money to give decent working conditions to health professionals or to provide decent support, for example, to professionals in the culture sector or young precarious ones who are still unprotected. Moreover, by the terms in which it is designed, it may violate the criteria laid down in Article 107 ( 1 ). that of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and constitute unlawful State aid. But it is also serious that the government uses the argument that we should give this tax ruling to the Champions League because UEFA requires it. Not being new, this argument demonstrates a government submission to UEFA blackmail, which is not acceptable. The government and the PS do not count on the NAP to counter our country's fiscal sovereignty on behalf of the interests of football. in a country that is currently experiencing difficulties and which, only in 2018, has lost, for the laundry of the transfers of football players, almost 4 million euros—yes, Mr. Secretary of State! — we should be discussing ways to avoid these leaks of capital and losses of tax revenue, rather than discussing tax bills. The NAP will therefore vote against this proposal.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u260	To close this debate, Mr. Under-Secretary of State and Tax Affairs, Mr. Antonio Mendonça Mendes.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u261	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Cecilia Meireles, after your intervention in relation to the situation in our country, allow me to advise you. I advise you to see an intervention by Mr Ricardo Baptista Leite, PSD, a few days ago, on an English television channel. I think the honourable Member will have much to learn from Mr Ricardo Baptista Leite's speech and his defense of your country. Secondly, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, and in particular the honourable Members. Members who question the advantage of us doing this competition in Portugal, I assume that it would be better for the competition not to take place in Portugal — I think that this is the consequence of this assessment. But we're going to the point that really shocks me. It shocks me that the gentlemen. Members with enormous responsibility before the country can, in such a difficult circumstance, want to deal with what does not exist: there is no tax bill here.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u262	It was a pain in the ass!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u263	It is very important to realize that the tax regime adopted for this competition is the same as that, in terms of reciprocity, there is always such a competition in certain countries. It is this tax regime that allows both players, as well as technical teams, and clubs to be taxed.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u264	If it were an exemption...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u265	They are always taxed, either by advertising revenues, or by prizes, or by any income that has both teams and players. They are taxed in the State of origin.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u266	If it's always, it's even worse!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u267	in the same way, when a Portuguese club is going to play an end of this nature to another country, it is the Portuguese tax authority that charges them the tax they do not pay in that country, but that they pay, yes, in the country of residence, according to this tax regime. On the other hand, Mr Cotrim de Figueiredo, I regret that the example he has given is wrong because a security company that has reside abroad pays, through the conventions to avoid double taxation, the CDTs, and not because of this scheme, the tax in the country of residence.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u268	There are other mechanisms for that!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u269	That is why, Mr President, you have repeatedly failed at the Liberal minute. [[CH and IL protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u270	Mr. Secretary of State, I'm sorry, but I have to interrupt. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I have said several times that the parts are regiment, but they must be made with the mask on. Mr. André Ventura, has already removed his mask five, six or seven times. Mr. Member, if you want to get away you have to do with masks! I'm sorry, Secretary of State. You can go on.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u271	Of course, Madam President. So, Mr Cotrim de Figueiredo, I think the Liberal minute must be revised. I end by turning to the point: we consider it important for the country, even more in these circumstances, to accept an initiative of this dimension, because we are a country that has public health conditions that allow it to do so. And this allows, although modestly, that teams and technical teams can use, for example, the hotel sector — not only the question of state-of-the-art assistance — and that they also project, as shown in the explanatory statement of the proposed law, the image of our country. We are convinced that this, although intangible, will be a benefit to our country. I repeat, what we are doing, with this scheme, is giving conditions to avoid double taxation, but ensuring that players, teams and companies are taxed in the State of residence, as is the case in the conventions, to avoid double taxation. The expectation we have is that these taxpayers actually pay the tax in their homes. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I end by appealing to the responsibility that we have all managed to have and not to play with serious things. We are looking with balance to bring the best solutions to the country and we are convinced that our ability to organize this event and to design ourselves as a safe country is absolutely essential for us to face with optimism, or at least with confidence, the future that comes to us. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u272	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of our agenda. I say goodbye to the gentlemen. Members of the Government. Meanwhile, Ms.Secretariat Sofia Araújo will report on a diploma that has entered the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u273	Madam President, I inform you that you have entered the Bureau, and it has been admitted, draft resolution No 568 / XIV / 1. a ( PAR) — Move of the President of the Republic to Madrid.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-09.u274	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow's plenary session begins at 10 a.m. with several items on the agenda. In the first point, there will be elections to the following bodies: Constitutional Court, Superior Council of the Magistrates, Board of Supervisors of the Integrated Criminal Information System, Board of Supervisors of the Information System of the Portuguese Republic, Supreme Council of National Defence, Economic and Social Council, National Data Protection Commission, Committee of Supervisors of Educational Centres, Higher Council of Information, Pedagogic Council of the Centre for Judicial Studies, General Council of the Centre for Judicial Studies and Supreme Council of Cyberspace Security. In the second point, by marking the PSD, we will proceed to the joint discussion of Bill Nos 199 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Sixth amendment to Decree-Law No 96 / 89 of 28 March, which establishes the International Register of Madeira Ships ( MAR ) and 221 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — The ninth amendment to Decree-Law No 96/89 of 28 March establishing the International Register of Madeira Ships. from the third point there are, without discussion times, the Bills 455 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Clarifies the scheme in which workers of the assigning entity are integrated into the transferee entity within the framework of Article 244 ( 4 ). the General Law on Public Works, as annexed to Law No 35 / 2014 of 20 June, and 467 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Strengthens the guarantees of the employees of the assigning entity by making the tenth amendment to the General Law on Public Works, as annexed to Law No 35 / 2014 of 20 June. At the fourth point, the Bill No. 226 / XIV / 1 will be appreciated. a ( PSD ) — Amendment No 1 / 2001 to the Organic Law of 14 August 2001 which regulates the election for local authorities. of point 5 is the joint discussion of the following bills: No. 227 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Eighth amendment to Law No 19 / 2003 of 20 June ( Law on the Financing of Political Parties and Electoral Campaigns ) and third amendment to Law No 2 / 2005 of 10 January ( Law on the Organization and Operation of the Entity of Political Accounts and Financing ) ; No 235 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Other Act No. 19 / 2003 of 20 June ( Law on the Financing of Political Parties and Election Campaigns ), eliminating the benefit of municipal property tax exemption ( IMI) for political parties ; No. 240 / XIV / 1. a ( IL) — Eliminates the tax benefits of political parties and reduces the value of public subsidies ( eighth amendment to the Political Party Financing Act, Law No 19 / 2003 of 20 June ) ; No 241 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — The eighth amendment is made to Law No 19 / 2003 of 20 June introducing measures for fiscal justice and equal treatment; No 248 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Revoks tax benefits allocated to political parties, decreases the limits of election campaign expenditure and restores limits of fund-raising revenue ( eighth amendment to Law No 19 / 2003 of 20 June ) ; and No 259 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Reduces public funding to political parties and electoral campaigns. At the sixth point we will proceed to the joint discussion of the following initiatives: Bill No. 457 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Fourth amendment to the Legal Regime of Parliamentary Investigations, approved by Law No 5 / 93 of 1 March, introducing the mandatory participation of civil society persons in parliamentary committees of inquiry ; Bill No 458 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Extends the Parliamentary Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members and, in its place, establishes the Transparency and Statute of Members, making the tenth amendment to the Statute of Deputies adopted by Law No 7 / 93 of 1 March and the first amendment to Law No 52 / 2019 of 31 July approving the regime of the exercise of functions by holders of political positions and high public positions ; Draft Law No 459 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Fifth amendment to Law No 43 / 90 of 10 August ( Exercise of the right to petition ) ; Draft Law No 460 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Third amendment to Law No 43 / 2006 of 25 August on the monitoring, assessment and delivery by the Assembly of the Republic in the process of the construction of the European Union ; Draft Resolution No 543 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — First amendment to the Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic No 210 / 2019 of 20 September approving the Code of Conduct of Deputies to the Assembly of the Republic ; and Draft Law No 466 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Strengthens the rights of participation in the legislative initiatives of citizens by amending Law No 17 / 2003 of 4 June 2003. of the seventh point is, without assigned times, the Bill No. 471 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Amend the Annex to Law No 52 / 2019 of 31 July by harmonizing the content of the Single Declaration of Income, Heritage, Interests, Incompatibilities and Impediments with the respective form. The eighth and final item will take place. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, until tomorrow and have a good day. The session is closed. [[It was 19 hours and 29 minutes.]]
