ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, Mrs. Officers of authority. The session is open. [[It was 10 hours and 5 minutes.]] We will start our plenary meeting, whose agenda is covered by the special discussion of the Bill No 61 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Approves the State budget for 2021. As you know and is habitual, we started by discussing the rules avoked by the plenary, and each parliamentary group and single Members representatives of a party (DURP) have 5 minutes to intervene. On the proposal submitted by the CFP to add Article 34. o -A— Recruitment of judicial officials, Mr António Filipe has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This intervention is made with regard to the proposal submitted by the CFP on admissions of judicial officials, because a particularly critical aspect in this area has to do with various human resources deficits. This is therefore the subject of proposals from the CFP Parliamentary Group, because it is indeed a critical area. We know that there has been a technological innovation that has sought to expedite processes and facilitate the functioning of justice, but it is not possible, given the manifest lack of human resources, that technology can solve all the problems that have been accumulated. For this reason, the CFP has come forward with proposals which aim not only to cover the deficit of judicial officials—it is estimated that it would be important to hire 2500 officials to ensure the effective functioning of the courts—as they aim to recruit, which is provided for in the Law of the Organisation of the Judicial System, of counsellors for judges and for the Public Prosecutors, more specifically 280 advisers, which seems to us to be the appropriate number for the immediate. As regards admissions to the Judicial Police, we welcome the adoption last Friday of the CFP proposal for an investment plan for criminal investigation. However, this obviously presupposes the necessary admissions to the judicial police, both for advisers and for experts, whether for criminals or for security. With regard to the Institute of Registers and Notariado, there is a manifest deficit of Conservatives and registrar officers who would need to close, and for this reason the CFP has also advanced with proposals. The lack of human resources in the justice sector is unavoidable and, in this sense, the adoption of the CFP proposals would be a very important contribution to begin solving the problems which have been accumulating for several years and which must be solved. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u3	On the proposal submitted by BE, adding a Article 39. o -A— autonomy of the institutions of the National Health Service for hiring professionals, has the floor Mr. Moisés Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Last Friday, we discussed a proposal from the Left Block that guarantees full autonomy to the institutions of the National Health Service ( SNS ) to hire according to their needs. We are talking about a fundamental proposal not to continue to respond with precarious four-month contracts to permanent needs, not to continue to fire health professionals in full pandemic and not to keep the institutions waiting, months in a row, for authorizations that often do not arrive. It was a fundamental proposal to have a robust National Health Service, at the moment it is more accurate, but the PS voted against it, plumbling it. In the meantime, at the end of the week, the Government announced that it had finally approved a regime of autonomy in the Council of Ministers. It would be good if it weren't for a real dry powder shot. It was just another non-wide announcement, because it is only for some doctors, some specialties, and only until the end of the year, therefore, a one-month scheme only. What you need, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is true autonomy to hire several health professionals — operational assistants, nurses, senior technicians of all specialties, doctors of all specialties — throughout the year of 2021. What is needed is a structural measure and not a remedy. And we therefore bring back the vote on the lead proposal last Friday. If the PS even wants autonomy and not just a bluff or an ad that does not serve anything, it will now vote in favour of this proposal. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u5	Mrs Hortense Martins of the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In fact, we have already discussed the question of autonomy, referred to by Mr Moisés Ferreira. And our understanding is that the Socialist Party has made structurally strengthening autonomy. But we must take care of the framework of this regime with responsibility and, at the same time, with balance, which is vital in territorial terms, due to the distribution of doctors where they necessarily need it. With this proposal for a State budget, we strengthen this balance. It should also be noted that exceptional measures are required in times of pandemic. Mr President, I recall that since the beginning of the pandemic, the Government has advanced with an exceptional standard to empower the hiring of health professionals — for four months, it is true, but renewable. We well know that no one would be able to predict, at that time, the duration of this pandemic. But now, the government has advanced — indeed, the decree was published yesterday itself — with an extraordinary measure for the hiring of permanent physicians, an exceptional regime for the hiring of specialists where they need them, such as in anesthesiology, cardiology, infectious diseases, internal medicine, intensive medicine, clinical pathology and pneumonia. Well, we know it's not possible at the same time. We must prioritize and know how we can and should solve the problems of the Portuguese. This is the way, it is not to think that a general measure, regardless of the situation, will have effects, when we all recognize that it is difficult to hire doctors. The Minister has already acknowledged it and has also said that she has made every effort to do so. In addition, we have just seen the accounts of the budget implementation to see the reflection of the increase in the number of health professionals, and there has been a growth of more than 5, 8 % and almost 9 % in staff expenditure. Therefore, we must continue this path of strengthening the number of health professionals, yes, and extraordinary measures for an extraordinary time, as well as permanent measures, to, in a permanent way, strengthen the sustainability of the National Health Service. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u7	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I inform you that we already have a quorum for the votes that will take place shortly. Consequently, the work can continue with all normality. Mr Maló de Abreu, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u8	Mr. President and Mr. Members: The Left Block proposes to strengthen the autonomy of the institutions of the National Health Service for the hiring of the professionals it needs and without permission from the Government, just justifying this need. The PSD has alerted, especially at this stage of pandemic, to the need to strengthen contracts for the National Health Service, because we know that this is truly the great front to combat diseases, whether COVID or not. And this is an important message for the government, increasingly distressed, disoriented and lost. It's just that time isn't fake, it's saving lives. And it's really saving lives, because thousands more lives have already been lost and they can't be statistical numbers. To do this, we need more health professionals in the SNS; we need more collaboration between the SNS and the other health providers of the system; we need a government that knows how to put the basic rights of the citizen above their petty party conveniences and their ideological prejudices.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u9	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u10	For all this, although the wording of the proposal may raise doubts, we are not an obstacle to its approval. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u11	Mr. Moisés Ferreira, of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Portugal is one of the countries of the European Union which spends less on extraordinary health expenses to respond to the COVID-19 pandemic. And that was quite clear in this exceptional autonomy regime that the Government has presented. It takes autonomy to hire operational assistants, nurses, technical assistants, senior technicians, etc. and the government makes a micro-system, one month, for some doctors, some specialties, if they ever want to appear. It's too little for what the SNS needs. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u13	Mrs Paula Santos from the PCP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We obviously follow the need for institutions that are part of the National Health Service to have autonomy in the hiring of health professionals. But in addition to this autonomy, it is necessary to ensure rights and value these same professionals, so that they choose to stay in the SNS. in this State budget, the CFP presented several proposals in this direction, which we will have the opportunity to debate. We need to hire more, we need to ensure this autonomy so that institutions can hire, but we need to value and secure the rights of health professionals. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u15	You now have the floor by the Government, Mr. Secretary of State of the Treasury, Miguel Cruz.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u16	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On this subject, and complementing the intervention of the PS Parliamentary Group recently, I would like to point out that at this time almost all hospitals have been delivered their Plans of Activity and Budget, where these hospitals define the permanent needs they have for the year 2021. in a discussion about what is exceptional, such should be worked exceptionally, but it is good to have the notion that, at this moment, all and any entity can contract, provided that the contracts are made for the basis of the career or provided that they are provided for in the Plan of Activities and Budget, in a manner that is effectively structured. Ad hoc commitments are being made quickly. We know that, in the context we have today, not everything can be properly planned, but that authorisation must be made with sufficient caution to achieve a balance between the various units, particularly between the various hospitals, and from a regional point of view. And it's that caution we have to have. By the end of 2020, what has been introduced was an exceptional situation to resolve timely cases, and I recall again the context in which we are. It is also worth noting that temporary authorisations are possible to make without requests for authorization by hospitals, either in the first contract or in the renewal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u17	Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Greens has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u18	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In the discussion of the rules that have been advocated by the plenary, The Greens want to highlight the proposals put forward by the Bloc on amendments to the Labour Code and the proposal by the CFP on the hiring of judicial officials. On the proposals relating to amendments to labour legislation, which, moreover, are accompanied by the Greens — even because we have also presented legislative initiatives which, in some ways, go in the same direction — means that, in our view, it is more than time to start revising the rules relating to the experimental period, redundancies and termination of the contract and the recognition of the principle most favourable to the worker, as well as the rules relating to the expiry of collective agreements. As for the experimental period, as we all remember, the current rules were cooked and agreed between PS and PSD and represented another excellent way for employers. Thus, from one point to the other, the central block has twice extended the duration of the experimental period for young people seeking the first job and for long-term unemployed. And it is not surprising that a government that continues to say that it intends to combat job insecurity ends up encouraging it in the most cruel way. In fact, the experimental period is one of the realities where work precariousness is more pronounced and more felt. It is recalled that, during this period, workers have no security, no protection, no right to any dismissal compensation, and are literally subject to all the discretion of the employers, who may lay off one day to the next and without even needing any justification or recalling any basis. However, doubling this period is to subject those who work to the duplication of the time of this precarious condition. As for the rules imposed by the PSD/CDS government on redundancy and contract termination compensation, it does not take much effort to realize that what the PSD did in this regard was to say to the bosses: « fire, because it is easy and cheap ». However, especially in a period where it is imperative to protect employment, it is necessary to restore justice in the value of these compensations or compensations. Finally, from our perspective, it is also necessary to restore the most favourable treatment in our legal-laboral order and to ensure that another collective convention succeeds. We therefore also follow this proposal from the Block. Regarding the CFP proposal on the hiring of judicial officials, it is good to bear in mind that without professionals there is no justice, and justice is a fundamental pillar of a rule of law. Now, as we know, especially in recent years, the universe of justice officers has come to shrink substantially. If we do the accounts, only in the last 20 years, the courts have lost 2500 justice professionals, creating a truly dramatic situation, with reflections on the health of justice itself, especially when it is intended for more rapid justice. On the other hand, on the part of the judicial officers, I would like to refer to two Greens proposals, which, having not been a lawyer, and although they intend to respond to commitments made by the Government, have finally been rejected. One of them referred to the inclusion of judicial officers in the pre-reform regime, until a specific retirement scheme was established by statute. The other concerned the remuneration supplement, in order to compensate for the special career as a justice officer, which has been in cod water for more than 20 years. And not even the fact that the Minister of Justice has publicly acknowledged, and several times, even in this House, the fairness of the integration of this remuneration supplement into the salary, or even the recommendation that it was approved in this House, of no use for the PS and PSD to approve these Green proposals, which have been worked very closely with the Union of Judicial Officers ( SFJ ). In this regard, I recall that under the State budget for 2020, the Government would have to publish the integration of the procedural recovery supplement as well as a differentiated retirement scheme for judicial officers by the end of July 2020. But it has passed July, August, September, we are at the end of November and there is no evolution in the process. Therefore, in view of the position of the PS and the PSD in rejecting these Green proposals, it is only for the Government to try to comply with what it has not done until the end of July.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u19	Mr Under-Secretary of State and Justice now gives the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u20	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Over the past five years, we have had a relatively steady increase in judicial officers. This number ranged from a minimum of 6626 to a maximum of 6880, and after 2015, 1100 judicial officers have already been admitted and a procedure for recruiting more than 150 judicial officers is under way. As for the procedural suspension at the end of 2015, when the XXI Constitutional Government entered office, the suspension was about 1 million and 300,000 cases, while in the first half of the current year this suspension is located in only 740 000 cases, about half. Consequently, we have an increasing number of cases by each court officer. On the other hand, one cannot forget the impact of the digital transformation dynamics that the government has carried out in justice: dematerialization, videoconferencing, notification and other interaction with the parties by electronic means, automation of the printing process, dispatching and wrapping of documents. These are just some of the examples of a significant reduction in acts currently being practiced by the judicial officers. Finally, a process of profound change in the status of judicial officers is under way, with a view to their professional requalification, as well as the reform of the organizational model of the judicial secretaries. This work, of course, includes a redefinition of the frameworks of the different categories of justice officers. This is the time to re-equalize needs and deficiencies and all other statutory issues of the justice officers. With regard to the labour laws, also referred to here, I would just like to say that they must not fail to deserve a comprehensive and undivided approach, and they will naturally be the subject of a comprehensive and undivided assessment at the moment and place. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u21	Mr. José Moura Soeiro, of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u22	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : Action on three proposals. The first concerns the fight against precariousness. in this crisis, precarious employment has become unprotected unemployment. The first victims of dismissal were precarious, but the first victims of deprotection were precarious. The proposals that we bring back to vote today are minimal to combat precariousness, to protect workers in the experimental period, temporary workers and the precariousness of platforms that have no contract or protection, and to include the precariousness in job maintenance counterparts that are associated with public support. You cannot face this crisis without combating precariousness. The Socialist Party must not join with the right to bring these proposals down. That is the last appeal we make to the Socialist Party Members. The second proposal concerns collective bargaining. The problem is identified: the law gives the bosses unilateral power to expire collective conventions. If there is a problem, we find a solution that is not just adding it to it in a year and a half. If the PS does not join the right as it did on Friday, we can now end the imbalance that allows an employer, without any negotiation, to end a collective contract. [[Protests by PS MP João Paulo Correia.]] The third proposal concerns redundancies. The Block does not bring its proposal to this plenary, which was to resume the 30 days of compensation for each year worked, in the event of dismissals — 30 days, which was, in fact, what was included in the Labour Code of Vieira da Silva — but only one intermediate step: we shall recover at least — Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen! — the 20 days that the Socialist Party itself negotiated with the troika in 2011. We return to 20 days is that minimum of respect for tens of thousands of workers who will be victims of dismissals. The left cannot be the guardian of the PSD and CDS changes in the law of layoffs, which were beyond the troika itself. The left cannot want to face this crisis and this wave of dismissals with the rules on the right. If the Socialist Party is not capable of this minimum of the minimums, the sign that it gives, today, in these votes, is not just a departure from the left and a conversion to the the thesis of the Rabbit Steps on layoffs, is a sign of carelessness and incomprehensible disregard for the world of work, right now that this most needed some balance. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u23	Mrs Diana Ferreira from the PCP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u24	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : The need and urgency of a budget that responds to the problems of the Portuguese people and the problems facing the country is becoming increasingly evident. Not a budget that responds to the deficit, but a budget that has provided solutions to the current economic and social situation. It is the day by day of thousands of workers in our country who clearly demonstrate this need. And the response that the country needs, as the PCP has stated, and even more so at present, goes through the defence of jobs, the general value of wages, the increase of the national minimum wage in the private sector and also in the Public Administration. With regard to this matter, it was important for the Government to clarify here, in the light of recent statements on the availability for an increase in the national minimum wage above that which the Government initially assumed, whether this increase in the national minimum wage comes with any favour to the employers, because it would not be acceptable to increase the national minimum wage and then to lower the TSU (unique social rate) for the employers, thereby also attacking social security. It was important that this should be clarified by the Government. The response that the country needs also goes through the repeal of the serious standards of the Labour Code, by restoring labour rights that have been removed from the workers, by shooting workers into situations of aggravated exploitation and poverty. Thus, it is necessary to revoke the expiry of the collective contract and not to present moratoriums, but to eliminate the expiry of the collective contract and to restore the principle of the most favourable treatment. It is necessary to compensate for redundancies, because what has been done was to facilitate redundancies and to offer the patronate, by hand, redundancies at balance prices. In short, it is necessary to combat precariousness in the public sector and also in the private sector, and to end the precariousness at once, eradicate it. All permanent needs must correspond to an effective link. Above all, the CFP has put forward proposals in Parliament.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u25	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u26	I will finish, Mr. President. And what was also important here, in particular in the light of very recent declarations, of a willingness to review labour legislation, is whether in this review of labour legislation and whether in this assessment of labour legislation that the Government and the PS say they want to do, the desire to repeal all these serious standards that have increased the exploitation and poverty of workers is also included. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u27	You have the floor by the PS Parliamentary Group Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u28	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I begin by leaving a guarantee from now on: on Thursday, when we vote on this State budget, we will not stand by the right side, which will vote against this budget. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The advocacy of these matters enables us to highlight a great deal of the way that has been going over the past few years, demonstrating that this State budget for 2021 is a budget that does not take a step back and goes further. In 2020, and since March, extraordinary measures covering more than 2 million and 230 thousand Portuguese and a total of 151 000 companies have been adopted, with support reaching more than 2100 million euros. In the Supplementary Budget, expenditure exceeded EUR 2, EUR 6 billion and in the State budget for 2021 we continue this course. Why? Because we have not discovered the virtues of the social state today, we do not accept from a zero base.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u29	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u30	We have made, since 2015, a path that we cannot devalue and to which we must give continuity. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We must continue this path with measures which are included in this budget. That is: the extraordinary measure of support for workers' income, which will be discussed and voted on today, covering partners and informal workers; the increase in national minimum wage; the layoff to 100 %; the freeness and extension of daycare facilities, benefiting families; the increase in family allowance; the extraordinary increase in pensions; the national strategy to combat poverty; the increase in unemployment benefit; etc. etc. etc.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u31	Hey!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u32	We do all this knowing that it is possible to diverge, that it is always possible to find points of divergence, but also knowing that in a negotiation it is possible and desirable to find points of convergence. And these convergence points have been highlighted by the PS. We are available to amend the labour laws, we are available to increase the national minimum wage — that was said by the Minister of Labour and reiterated by us on Friday. We understand that this is not a debate to be held in the budget. There is no problem with that, but in order to continue to do so, we must have an approved budget and this government must remain politically active. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And that is as important or more important when we see that some take advantage of the crisis to launch against each other, Portuguese against Portuguese, as is the case on the right that joins the extreme right to rule the Azores. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We do not accept that path. We wish and want to continue our journey with our partners since 2015. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u33	Mrs Clara Marques Mendes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u34	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With regard to the lawyers here made with regard to the issues of the Labour Code, the PSD position is very simple and has been well registered last week. We have said, we have repeated several times and we have said here again that the amendments to the Labour Code must always be preceded by evaluation, analysis and consultation within the Standing Committee on Social Consultation. And what the Left Block and the CFP do, with the presentation of these proposals, is a total disrespect for what we consider to be a fundamental instrument, which is social consultation, and a total disrespect by the social partners. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I use my speech to talk about matters that are also very relevant and that are related to two proposals submitted by the PSD to help people and families. The Government and the Socialist Party have been saying that this Budget protects people and families, but the Socialist Party itself voted against two proposals, presented by the PSD, essential to help families. Last Friday, he rejected a proposal that strengthens home support, in order to include health care, as well as a proposal, which is of the most fundamental justice, appropriate and, above all, necessary, aimed at updating cooperation agreements with the social sector, in order to reflect the impact of the increase in the national minimum wage. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members, this sector has been fundamental in helping people, has arrived where the state does not arrive, has given help of proximity and you are saying 'no' to these institutions and, by saying 'no' to these institutions, they are saying 'no' to people. Therefore, with these calls we make here, you have a new opportunity to correct your sense of vote. If they don't, what we can conclude is that you say something and do the opposite. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u35	Mr. André Ventura, from arrive, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u36	Mr President: It is no less curious that the Socialist Party should present itself in this debate, by the voice of Mr. Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro, saying that it is shameful that the Left Block will join the right and vote against these amendments. Mr President, we remember that it was the Socialist Party that voted on the right side of the working hours, the hour bank or even 25 amendments to the Labour Code. Apparently, there was no problem with voting on the right side. Today, you think the problem is that the Left Block votes to the right. The honourable Member has finally realized what the Communist Party will soon realize, i.e. that with the Socialist Party no budget can be negotiated and that the Socialist Party is on the way to political ruin in Portugal. But I would also like to tell you that the amendments to the Labour Code that are on the table reveal something that the extreme left has always revealed, a total insensitivity to those who keep jobs in Portugal. It was enough to hear the intervention made recently about the TSU and compare what thousands of Portuguese have done at the last weekend—they went to the street asking for the exemption of the TSU—to see how it works out of what it is to keep the job in Portugal. But I'm telling you more, sir. The Socialist Party has achieved the incredible: to get on such a narrow path that it no longer likes either the extreme left or the left or the right. Basically, no one likes anyone anymore, except those who are distributing crumbs to get a favorable vote on Thursday. [[PS Member Protests Hortense Martins.]] That is what you have achieved, Mr President, was nothing else: you have not achieved any changes in employment, no tax changes, no social changes, no political changes, no economic revision, no increase in what should actually increase, pensions and wages. So don't come up here with strategies against poverty and with increases in social subsidies, because this Budget is socially a disgrace, and that is the responsibility of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u37	Mr. Secretary of State for Social Security, Gabriel Bastos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u38	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the interventions previously made concerning the Government's position on the revision of labour law, my answer is clear: the Government does not have any closed position in this regard, it is open to discussion and negotiation in the context of social dialogue on the proposals which the social partners, in particular the trade unions, intend to put. On the question of the counterpart of the reduction of TSU for the increase in the national minimum wage, my answer is also clear and taxive: the Government has not provided for any reduction of TSU for the same purpose. I reaffirm, as Mr Barbosa Ribeiro has also reaffirmed, the recent statements of the Minister of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security last Friday that we are in the context of the Green Paper on the Future of Work and that we are open to assessing all these matters in a global context and, with the participation of the social partners, we will take the most appropriate measures. With regard to Mrs Clara Marques Mendes, I should like to leave a brief comment: this year, the Government has approved the greatest ever increase in commitment to the social and solidarity sector — an increase of 3, 5 %. [[Protests from PSD MP Clara Marques Mendes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u39	Mr. Secretary of State, I ask you to synthesize.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u40	I will finish, Mr. President. Mrs Clara Marques Mendes, we have also taken a number of measures which we are prepared to strengthen throughout 2021. I speak of measures such as the MAREESS ( Social and Health Equipment Emergency Response Support Action ), as well as a EUR 165 million funding line for the social and solidarity sector. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u41	For the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mr José Moura Soeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u42	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State : On opening the Government, we know the document that has been sent for social consultation. It is a document which keeps the right-wing rules on redundancies unchanged, which does not affect the expiry of collective bargaining, nor, for example, the replacement of the most favourable treatment principle. The Government and the Socialist Party today have not responded to what is fundamental: Why do they want to face a brutal job crisis, such as the one we are already living, with the labour rules on the right? Why do you think that in 2021 the rules of the Rabbit Pass for layoffs should apply? If they identify a problem in collective bargaining, why do they reject a solution to that problem? Mrs. Members of the Socialist Party, why do they not even want to include precarious workers in the rules of protection and in the counterparties required to companies receiving public support? The Socialist Party and the Government are not available to discuss and approve minimum standards in the protection of precarious workers, nor in the replacement of dismissal rules. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u43	Mrs Clara Marques Mendes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u44	Mr President: Following the intervention of Mr Social Security State Secretary, I would like to ask you, since you referred to my intervention, whether the impact of the national minimum wage is guaranteed to these institutions in updating cooperation agreements. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u45	Mrs. Members, I inform you that the NAP has handed over 2 minutes to the Government, so the Secretary of State may respond, if you wish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u46	Mr President, I thank you for the opportunity to respond, which I will do very quickly.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u47	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u48	Mr President, Member of Parliament, this increase is expected, as has already been transmitted to the Committee on Labour and Social Security. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u49	He's not!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u50	Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u51	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The State is a bad payer — we all knew — but we also learned that, for the Socialist Party, the Left Block and the Communist Party, there are no major inconveniences in which the State continues to be a bad payer. For this reason, they failed to reach the PSD proposal which set a maximum period of 30 days for the State to pay its suppliers. I must say that I am not entirely surprised at this vote by the left-wing parliamentary parties, because among them there are those who have fallen in love with captivity; there are those who see, in the relationship between suppliers and the state, a privilege for the first; and there are those who find in administrative simplification the solution to almost all the problems of the country. It was good to pay in time and time! Open... But, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Parliamentary left-wing Members today have a second chance to go back, to catch up on their way and to help transform the state into a good person, which is what all Portuguese demand. This is easy and does not cost 1 cent to the public record, it is enough to vote in favour of the PSD proposal. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u52	Mr. João Pinho de Almeida has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u53	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: We are now discussing these lawyers, labour issues and social issues. With regard to labour issues, I would like to say the following: we also believe that labour must, firstly, be discussed and agreed at the centre of social consultation, with trade unions and with employers' representative associations, and not as the government says. We were shocked by the fact that the Secretary of State for Social Security has said that he values social dialogue, including trade unions. I do not know this concept of social consultation in which some deserve greater consideration than others. That is exactly the opposite of what social consultation means! We realize that it is speech to please the left that will approve this Budget. More: the Socialist Party and the Government have no courage to say that they do not change labour legislation because current labour legislation is the one that best protects work. It is enough to look at the statistics and data of recent years to realize that the changes introduced by the PSD/CDS-PP government in the labour legislation that allowed the greatest recovery of employment that the country has ever attended and that allowed, until the pandemic arose, the largest percentage of active population employed that the country ever had in this century. Therefore, by not saying this the Socialist Party, it is important for someone to say, in this Parliament, that it was this labour legislation that most protected employment and allowed more Portuguese to be employed. contrary to what the left to the left of the Socialist Party says, this is not legislation that facilitates dismissal, this is legislation that facilitates contracting. And that is why the Socialist Party knows, but does not say, that it is with this legislation that in this crisis we can come back to employment and give more people the opportunity to have jobs. On the social issue, we have to say here what was not clear on the part of the Government, on cooperation agreements with the social sector. No one understands that the Government brings forward a proposal for a State Budget which does not increase or update cooperation agreements at the level of the increase it makes in the minimum wage, when it is known that this increase in the minimum wage has a decisive impact on the greatest expenditure component of private institutions of social solidarity, which is the burden on workers. The Government therefore presented the Budget and said: "We are open to increase and to be able to meet the needs of the social sector." But there came the discussion in the specialty, and then the Government and the Socialist Party dropped the proposals that did what the Government said would be available to do, i.e. an update of the cooperation agreements, at least at the level of the increase in the national minimum wage. What can't happen is that the Secretary of State continues to say, after they have dropped these proposals, that the Government is open to this amendment. Mr. Secretary of State, if the Government is open to this amendment, it should have told the Socialist Party to vote in accordance with the opening of the Government. But there is one last chance: if what Mr. Secretary of State told us is true and if the Socialist Party here, in plenary, respects the will of the Government, then there can only be one thing, which is the Socialist Party to vote, shortly, the proposal avoked according to the will of the Government. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government really wants to increase cooperation agreements more — Mr President-in-Office of the Council has told us now! I do not believe that you do not vote in a way that fulfills the plan that the Secretary of State here said to be that of the Government. Or, then, we will have to conclude — not for our own intent, but for the demonstration of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group — that what the Government here says is not written.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u54	Mr. André Ventura, from arrive, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u55	Mr President: This is what the Government has confined itself to, while the NAP assigns it to it. And it is not only that Members who are not registered are given time because they do not have time to speak in this session, but would also receive it.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u56	And the Arrival certainly has more time!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u57	That's what the government has confined itself to. This socialist government, which was the Government of the majority and the large left-wing coalition, ended its intervention with 2 minutes handed over by the NAP. It will be paradigmatic to see if they will not also be, besides the NAP, the two Members who are not registered to approve the Socialist Party's Budget... This great democratic legitimacy of this Budget! Mr. Secretary of State, today is the day to clarify us, because he said here that the government is finally open to compliance with private payments. I have the data here, and I can tell you that the situation is as follows: while the municipal chambers drop the debt to suppliers, the central state, which passed the law, increased their debt to suppliers. How does the State want companies not to fire, protect jobs and keep themselves alive when it is the first one not to pay what they owe? How did the Socialist Government increase the debt we owe to suppliers by more than 32 %, especially in the health sector? How can we then turn to them and say "don't fire, keep the job, stay alive and firm, but we don't pay what we owe"? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u58	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u59	It's true! It's true! It's the data we have on the table! What we would like to know, Mr Secretary of State, is whether it is finally available to approve a proposal requiring the State to pay in time and time and whether it is finally available to strengthen such cooperation agreements. Let the Socialist Party, today, do what it must do, which is to vote in favour of the rules avocados.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u60	Mr. Secretary of State for Social Security has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u61	Mr. President : I will take advantage of the 40 seconds available to comment on the reference made by Mr. José Soeiro from the Left Block to the negotiation in the context of social consultation and the document delivered there. Mr President, I should like to make it clear that this document and the subjects included there do not limit this discussion. I therefore reaffirm what he said: we are fully available to, with the social partners — be trade unions, be employers — discuss these matters and deepen the most appropriate alternatives to the labour market. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u62	Mr. João Almeida has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u63	Mr. President: When Mr. Secretary of State for Social Security applied to intervene, I was afraid that it would be to say that, after all, I had misunderstood the issue of updating cooperation agreements and that the Government did not have that availability. However, as the Secretary of State has said and has not said so, I would like to appeal again to the Socialist Party: do not let the Secretary of State go wrong and approve the proposal, so that the cooperation agreements have an update in line with the national minimum wage and, thus, the institutions can continue to do what the government does not do.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u64	As there are no more entries, we will turn to the second item on the agenda, which is the vote on the rules that have been adopted. The electronic picture records the presence of 202 Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we therefore have the quorum to proceed to the vote. Let us then begin by voting on proposal 1159 - C of the PSD, which adds Article 15. o -A — Payments to suppliers. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and BE were rejected, votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the CH, the IL and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and abstentions from the PCP, the PEV and the Non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We shall vote on proposal 1287 - C of the CFP, which shall add Article 34. o -A - Recruitment of judicial officials. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD, CDS-PP and IL abstentions.]] We shall proceed to the vote on proposal 380 - C from the Left Block, which shall add Article 39. o -A— autonomy of the institutions of the National Health Service for hiring professionals. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, ENP, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD, CDS-PP, PAN, CH and Non-registered MP Cristina Rodrigues.]] We proceed to Article 45. o — Recruitment of workers in municipalities in a situation of sanitation or rupture. Let us begin by voting on proposal 128 - C of the NAP, which amends Article 45 ( 1 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, PAN and other non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from PSD, PCP, CDS-PP, PEV, CH, IL and Non-registered MP Cristina Rodrigues.]] We shall now vote on Article 45 (1). The proposal of the law.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u65	Mr President, we can vote together on Article 45. o.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u66	Let us then vote on Article 45. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PSD, PCP, ENP and MP not included Joacine Katar Moreira and Abstaining from BE, CDS-PP, PAN, CH, IL and Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues.]] We turn to Article 77. o — Obligations assumed by municipalities in the process of decentralization of competences. With no objection, we voted on Article 77. the proposal of the law in its entirety. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, votes against the BE, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from PSD, PAN, CH, IL and Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues.]] Article 78 is followed. o — Funds available and institutions with late payments in the local subsector. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I wonder if we can vote together.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u67	We can vote on it from paragraph 1 to paragraph 6, including.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u68	With no objection, we shall vote on Article 78 ( 1 ) to ( 6 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of PS, BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD, CDS-PP, CH and IL abstained.]] We shall proceed to the vote on Article 78 ( 7 ). o. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of PS, BE, PAN and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PCP and the ENP and abstentions from PSD, CDS-PP, CH and IL.]] Finally, we shall vote on Article 78 ( 8 ). o. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD, the CDS-PP, the CH and the IL.]] We proceed to Article 79. o — Reduction of late payments. Let us begin with the vote on Amendment No 583 - C in the part in which Article 79 ( 1 ) is amended. o. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected, votes against the CDS-PP, the PAN, the CH, the IL and the Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and the PSD abstention.]] We shall proceed to the vote on Article 79 ( 1 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD, the CDS-PP, the CH and the IL.]] We then voted on Amendment No 583 - C to the part in which Article 79 (2) was amended. o. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected, votes against the CDS-PP, the CH, the IL and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and the abstention of the PSD.]] We shall vote on Article 79 ( 2 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the PEV PAN and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD, the CDS-PP, the CH and the IL.]] We turn to the vote on proposal 71 - C of the NAP, which amends Article 79 ( 3 ). o. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, the PCP, the PEN, the PEN, the CH, the IL and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from PSD, CDS-PP and the Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues.]] We shall vote on Article 79 ( 3 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD, the CDS-PP, the CH and the IL.]] We now vote on Article 79 ( 4 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD, the CDS-PP, the CH and the IL.]] We moved on to Article 80. o — Payment to concessionaires arising from judicial or arbitral decisions or rescue of concession contracts. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I wonder if we can vote on this article as a whole.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u69	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u70	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u71	Mr President, if there is agreement of the other parliamentary groups, I would suggest that we vote first paragraph 1 ( b ), following paragraph 8 and then the remaining paragraphs and paragraphs of Article 80. o.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u72	With no objection, we begin by voting Article 80 ( 1 ( b ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, BE, PAN and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PCP and the ENP and abstentions from the PSD, the CDS-PP, the CH and the IL.]] We shall now vote on Article 80 ( 8 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of PS, BE, PAN and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PCP and the ENP and abstentions from PSD, CDS-PP, CH and IL.]] We are now voting together on paragraph 1, paragraphs 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7 of Article 80. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of PS, BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD, CDS-PP, CH and IL abstained.]] We proceed to Article 83. o — Financial transfers under decentralization and delegation of powers. Mr. João Oliveira asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u73	Mr President, that is to say, for us, we can vote on everything until paragraph 4 of that article.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u74	With no objection, we shall therefore vote together in Article 83 ( 1 ), ( 2 ) and ( 3 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN, CH, IL and Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues were adopted.]] We turn to the vote on Article 83 ( 4 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PS, the CDS-PP and the CH, votes against the BE, the PCP and the ENP and abstentions of the PSD, the PAN, the IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira.]] Let us now vote on Article 83 ( 5 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PCP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN, CH, IL and Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues.]] We shall vote jointly on Article 83 (6) and (7). o. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD, BE, PCP and ENP were rejected, votes against the PS and abstentions against the CDS-PP, PAN, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We shall proceed to the vote on Rule 84. o — Financial aid and technical and financial cooperation in the proposal for a law. Let us begin by voting on paragraph 1 of that Article. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira, the vote against the IL and the abstentions of the PSD, the CDS-PP, the CH and the Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues.]] We are now voting in full on Article 84 ( 2 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PAN and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PCP, the PEV and the IL and abstentions from the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, CH and the Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues.]] The vote on Article 84 ( 3 ) shall follow. o. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira, the vote against the IL and the abstentions of the PSD, the CDS-PP, the CH and the Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues.]] We shall proceed to the vote on Rule 88. o — Urgent and unsatisfied expenditure of the bill. First of all, the proposal 633 - C, tabled by the CH, amending Article 88, must be voted on. o. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and IL were rejected, in favour of the CDS-PP, the PAN, the CH and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and abstains from BE, PCP, PEV and MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] Let us vote on Rule 88. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and CDS-PP, CH and IL abstentions.]] We turn to Article 89. o — Settlement of Polis companies. Mrs. Members, I think we can vote together on the various issues of Article 89. The proposal of the law. [[Pause.]] Since no one is opposed, we shall vote for Article 89. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira and with abstentions from the CDS-PP, CH, IL and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues.]] The vote on Rule 92 shall follow. o — Loans from municipalities for housing and urban rehabilitation operations, of the bill. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, BE, PAN and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PCP, the ENP and the IL and abstentions from the PSD, the CDS-PP and the CH.]] We shall proceed to the vote on Rule 93. o — EIB line PT 2020 - Authorities. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from PSD, BE, CDS-PP, CH, IL and Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues.]] The vote on Rule 95 shall follow. o — Deduction of transfers to local authorities, of the proposed law. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN and MP not included Joacine Katar Moreira and PCP, PEV, CH, IL and Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues.]] We turn to Article 96. o — Agreements on the regularization of debts of local authorities. Mrs. Members, we begin by voting on proposal 297 - C, tabled by the CFP, in the part in which Article 96 ( 1 ) is amended. o. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the ENP, the CH, the IL and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PSD and abstentions of BE, the NAP and the Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues.]] Mrs. Members, in view of the outcome of this vote, shall be adversely affected by the vote on Article 96 ( 1 ). The proposal of the law. I think we can vote together on the remaining numbers.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u75	Mr President, I apologize, but only until paragraph 9, including.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u76	Let us then vote jointly on Article 96 ( 2 ) to ( 9 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PS and abstentions of the PS, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira were adopted.]] The vote is followed by the vote on proposal 297 - C submitted by the CFP, in the part in which Article 96 ( 10 ) is amended. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the PCP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from BE, PAN, CH, IL and Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues.]] We turn to the vote on Article 96 ( 10 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PS, votes against the PCP and the ENP and abstentions against the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira were adopted.]] Let us now vote on proposal 297 - C, tabled by the CFP, in the part in which Article 96 ( 11 ) is amended. o. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the PCP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from BE, PAN, CH, IL and Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues.]] We shall vote on Article 96 ( 11 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PS, votes against the PCP and the ENP and abstentions against the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira were adopted.]] Let us now vote on Article 96 ( 12 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of PS and with abstentions from PS, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira.]] The vote is followed by the vote on proposal 297 - C submitted by the CFP, in the part in which Article 96 ( 13 ) is amended. o. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected, votes against the PCP and the ENP and abstentions against BE, CDS-PP, PAN, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira.]] Let us now vote on Article 96 ( 13 ). o. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PS, votes against the PCP and the ENP and abstentions against the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira were adopted.]] Article 98 is hereby followed. o — Legislative authorization under the exceptional regime applicable to local authorities and intermunicipal entities, in the context of the situation of prevention, containment, mitigation and treatment of epidemiological infection by SARS-CoV-2 and the disease COVID-19.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u77	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u78	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u79	Mr President, I would like to correct a point of vote. At the beginning of the vote on Rule 96. the proposal for a law, we voted for a proposal from the CFP, proposal 297 - C, in the part in which it amended paragraph 1 of that Article. It happens that we voted in favour when we wanted to vote against it. The amendment of our sense of vote changes the final result because the proposal has been adopted, but with the change of our sense of vote it is rejected and we shall have to vote on Article 96 (1). The proposal of the law.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u80	It is recorded, Mr President, but in any case I ask the various banks to avoid these review procedures. Proposal 297 - C, submitted by the CFP, is therefore rejected in the part in which Article 96 ( 1 ) is amended. The proposal of the law. We shall therefore proceed with the vote on Article 98. or...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u81	Mr. President, if I may...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u82	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u83	Mr President, with this change in the meaning of the PS and the « lead » of the CFP proposal, Article 96 ( 1 ) must be voted on. The proposal of the law.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u84	We shall then vote on Article 96 ( 1 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of PS and with abstentions from PS, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We are now voting on Rule 98. o — Legislative authorization under the exceptional regime applicable to local authorities and intermunicipal entities, in the context of the situation of prevention, containment, mitigation and treatment of epidemiological infection by SARS-CoV-2 and the disease COVID-19. How can Article 98 be voted on. o Mr João Oliveira?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u85	Until the proposal of the PS, Mr President, i.e. until Article 98 ( 3 ). o, including.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u86	Let us then make this set of votes, i.e. we shall vote on Article 98 (1), (2) and (3). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of the PS, the PAN and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PCP and the ENP and abstentions from PSD, BE, CDS-PP, CH, IL and Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues.]] We now turn to the vote on the proposal 1105 - C of the PS amending Article 98 ( 4 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, CDS-PP, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PCP, PAN and PEV abstentions.]] Therefore, the vote on Article 98 ( 4 ). It's damaged. Let us then vote on paragraph 5 of the same article of the bill. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the NAP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PCP and the ENP and abstentions from PSD, BE, CDS-PP, CH, IL and Non-registered MP Cristina Rodrigues.]] We shall proceed to the vote on proposal 385 - C of the BE, adding a Rule 99. o -A — Amendments to the Labour Code. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP, CH and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, ENP and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstention of the NAP.]] We are now voting on BE's proposal 387 - C1, in the part in which Article 99 is added. o-B — Amendment to the Labour Code. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstention of CH.]] We proceed with the vote on proposal 389 - C of the BE, adding a Article 99. o-C — Repristinatory norm and amendment to the Labour Code. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP and IL and votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected.]] Let us now vote on proposal 386 - C of the BE, adding Article 99. o-D — Maintenance of employment by companies benefiting from support measures. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstention of CH.]] The vote is followed by the vote on proposal 928 - C of the PSD, adding an article 100. o -A— Extension of home support services to health care. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the ENP were rejected, votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the CH, the IL and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We shall vote on proposal 1178 - C of the PSD to add Article 113. o -A— Adjustment of the Cooperation Commitment for the Social and Solidarity Sector in the year 2021. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the CH, the IL and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and abstains from BE, the PCP, the PEV and the Non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u87	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u88	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u89	Mr President, I would like to clarify the meaning of the PAN's vote on proposal 386 - C of BE, adding a Article 99. o-D, whose vote was in favour, with the exception of paragraph 2 ( e) of the same proposal in which the NAP vote is abstention. In the rest of the proposal, the NAP votes in favour.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u90	All right. It does not change the overall meaning of the votes. Mr Ventura asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u91	Mr President, just to realize that I am still not able to register myself computerly, but I am here, of course.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u92	All right, you've noticed. Thank you very much. Mrs. Members, the Bureau is undertaking a small reorganization for the purposes of starting the third point of our work, which consists of continuing the discussion, in the specialty, of the Bill No 61 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Approves the State budget for 2021. I would also like to ask Vice-President Fernando Negrão to replace me in the presidency, which I am grateful for now. [[Pause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President Fernando Negrão took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u93	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. I ask you to pause to reorganize. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this small interval was due to the fact that the inscriptions had been made on time. Having resumed our work, we have moved on to the discussion of Article 112. o — Extraordinary support for workers' income. I begin by giving the floor to Mr. José Moura Soeiro, of the Left Block. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u94	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members, in the field of social protection there is an urgent need for two fronts. First of all, changing the rules on unemployment benefit. The maintenance of the troika cuts during the period of granting the unemployment allowance in 2021 means the deprotection of at least 50 000 unemployed. to the Socialist Party we make a simple appeal: instead of voting on the right side to maintain the rules of the PSD and CDS in the unemployment allowance, we vote on the left to recover the rules which, after all, the Socialist Party itself drew in the past. Don't waste it, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Socialist Party, this minimum of justice and common sense in respect of unemployment benefit benefits. Secondly, we want extraordinary support for those who are out of unemployment. We want it to reach everyone: to the independent worker who organized events; to the trader or craftsman, who had an abrupt fall in his activity; to the precariousness of the industry, who was fired in the experimental period and has no unemployment allowance; to the informal worker of the restaurant; to the employee of the store who has even worked and who has a contract but does not have a year of activity to access the unemployment benefit; to the worker of the bar or the fadist, who saw the place where he worked closed; to the domestic worker, who does not yet have access to the unemployment benefit. The proposal for extraordinary support from the Government, however, has two major problems. First, there are tens of thousands of unemployed who are expected to maintain the unemployment allowance in 2021 and will have less support, which does not count for the contribution career. Second, for self-employed workers, a very tight resource condition is applied, which did not exist in 2020 and will leave many of those who had support in 2021. That is why, in fact, there are parties that even say: « If it is to do worse, then it is better to extend what was in the 2020 budget. For some workers, support will be only six months and for the informals insists on the model that has not yielded results. The Left Block proposes several amendments to this support so that we will not leave anyone behind. We will approve all the amendments of all parties that are positive. We also recognize some progress in the negotiations, but, as this proposal is, even with the proposals for the amendment of the Socialist Party, this extraordinary support not only does not respond to all people, as it continues to review the measures of the last State budget for self-employed people. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u95	You now have the floor of Mrs. Ofélia Ramos, from the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u96	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members, the Government once again left behind the partners-managers of micro and small enterprises who were completely excluded from the response to the crisis caused by the COVID-19. This is unacceptable! The government has done so in the past on more than one occasion and, not the PSD initiative, thousands and thousands of partners, who are discounted for social security like the other workers, would have been on the edge of any support. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u97	The government once again leaves these people with one hand in front and another. PSD does not comply with this injustice! This negative discrimination of management partners is a clear manifestation of the government's ideological prejudice towards those who generate wealth and promote employment. It is of the most fundamental justice and importance to support those who today struggle for the survival of their businesses and for the maintenance of thousands of jobs, because they are those who, side by side with the workers, generate wealth, they are those who promote employment and it is they who depend on our economy. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u98	Mr Hugo Oliveira of the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u99	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, before I turn to the Socialist Party's proposal, let me have a little note on the speech of the PSD Member Ofélia Ramos. It is normal for the honourable Member to be confused about the Government's proposal, because today, in the face of this crisis, probably the biggest crisis we have ever experienced, what we are talking about is more or less support. Now, that's strange to you, because in the last crisis what we were talking to you was too much or less cut! [[PSD protests.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in the amendment proposal, the Socialist Party proposes that extraordinary support for workers' income be extended so that it can reach more workers, ensuring more income and more social justice. We therefore propose in this proposal that the members of the governing bodies whose unemployment benefit ends after January 2021 or who lose their jobs without access to social protection may have access to this new social support. Microenterprise managers, individual entrepreneurs and business partners who are subject to the duty to close facilities, such as bars or discotheques, should also have access to this support. We also propose the creation of a 4. the entry step in this support, intended for informal workers, to workers in situations of economic and social deprotection who do not have access to any social protection instrument or mechanism. Our proposal also provides for the strengthening of this new support for self-employed, domestic workers and management partners. This proposal provides that workers on behalf of others, the domestic service, independent or members of statutory bodies who lose the unemployment benefit from January, as well as workers with green receipts and management partners whose activities are closed by legal imposition should access this support without condition of resources within the first six months. The remaining Portuguese who are excluded from this support due to the condition of resources shall once in each six months of 2021 receive an additional amount of the family allowance equal to the normally received value. This is a very important proposal to deal with this crisis and we also hope that the Left Block will realize that we want to work together to solve the problems of Portuguese workers. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u100	We have moved on to the discussion of the proposal of the NAP to add Article 119. -A — Consumer support telephone lines. Mr André Silva of the NAP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u101	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members, value-added calls in customer support lines are a user-friendly practice that compresses consumer rights and therefore has to end. In recent times, important steps have been taken, but these calls remain the only means available, for example, under insurance, banking contracts and other services. The approval of proposal 102 - C of the NAP will put an end to this abuse by certain companies and will cause consumer rights to emerge from the role.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u102	We are now discussing the proposal, the PSD, to add an article 123. o -A — Community funds. You have the floor to Mr Cristovão Norte, from the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u103	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the Algarve is about to turn into a pile of rubble, swept away by a wave of unemployment and unparalleled bankruptcy. Unemployment in the Algarve grows at a rate five times higher than the national average. It grew over the year 2019, 200 %. And what does the government do? The government said, on the one hand, in July: "We will present a specific emergency programme for the Algarve". Mr President of the Republic welcomed this programme, said that this programme was essential and a national design, but today, in the discussion of the State budget, we find nothing. We find a neglected, abandoned Algarve, we find, above all, a region that does not have access to Community funds, does not have the ERDF ( European Regional Development Fund ), has little European Social Fund and because of this circumstance is dismissed from any robust instruments to respond to such a crisis. That is why the Social Democratic Party wants to resolve, through funds from the State budget or even through the renegotiation of Community funds, so that a present which today is gloomy is not a dark tomorrow, in a region that is cloning, completely stopped and without support from the government, looking to the side, looking back, but does not look at the algae and the promises it has made. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u104	Mr. Luís Graça, from the PS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u105	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members, the Algarve has, in the current Community support framework, which is ending, EUR 300 million. This is the value that a PSD Government has negotiated with the European Commission for the Algarve: EUR 300 million. [[P.S.'s applause.]] at that time, we lost a clause that allowed regions such as the Algarve, which are considered rich, to use funds from the European Social Fund. at that time, the PSD did not care that the Algarve had no resources and no Community funds. At the initiative of the Prime Minister, Antonio Costa, we negotiated with the European Commission the next Community support framework and the Algarve will receive a specific additional programme of EUR 300 million. It is a matter of doubling the Community funds that we have, that is, in the next Community support framework, the Algarve will have about EUR 700 million, against the 300 million that the PSD has left. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But it will also have a set of public investments, from now on within the framework of water efficiency, which has more than 200 million euros in the Resilient Plan to invest in the Algarve, a crucial theme for the region, or the electrification of the railway line. That is, in the next Community support framework, Mr President, we will again have more than EUR 1 billion of Community investment in the region, which means what we received when we were considered a region of first need. The Algarve needs government support, needs investment, what doesn't need is your demagogy and populism! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u106	We are now discussing the proposals of the ENP for the addition of Article 137. the -A - Establishment of treasury funds for micro and small enterprises and Article 137. o-B — Programme for the valuation of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises in the context of public procurement and the functioning of State purchasing centres. Mr José Luís Ferreira of the ENP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u107	Mr President, proposals 79 - C and 260 - C, both of the Greens, on the one hand, seek to create a treasury fund for micro and small enterprises and on the other hand to draw up a programme to enhance these companies. These are important proposals, even because the pandemic we live has posed numerous challenges to micro and small businesses, which have had a lot of difficulty in maintaining their activity, because they have been drastically reduced, or even completely, their turnover since March of this year. Since there are some measures and lines of support, it is also true that they do not satisfactorily solve the financing of the treasury of this business fabric. It should be noted that the Portuguese Confederation of Micro, Small and Medium-sized Enterprises has been alerting that there are about 1 million and 100,000 small entrepreneurs who are experiencing many difficulties in paying expenses, such as wages, income, water, energy, tax charges, among others. Now, these companies play a central role in our economy and, in particular, at the moment, they need to be supported. It is in this sense that the Greens present a proposal for the creation of a treasury fund for micro and small enterprises, which allows for the agile, effective and without excessive bureaucracy required to support this capital segment of the national economy. On the other hand, it is necessary to define measures that value, support and facilitate the activity of these companies, which are often faced with great difficulties and even constraints, a situation that is being substantially aggravated with the pandemic. However, with this second proposal, the Greens propose a programme for the valuation of micro and small enterprises, in particular in the public procurement and operation of State purchasing centres, as a way to encourage these companies in these processes and to meet the demands of the sector but also a resolution adopted by this House. The Greens believe that the implementation of these measures will contribute to the dynamisation and sustainability of micro and small enterprises, also contributing to the recognition of their central role in the national economy and promoting balanced economic growth.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u108	We move on to the discussion of Article 151. o — Procedures in the field of fire prevention, suppression and stabilization. Mr. Jorge Mendes, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u109	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD does not understand or accept that the Government, on the basis of the budget, submits proposals calling into question the basic rules of public procurement, in particular in the field of transparency. In particular, I refer to the establishment by the Government of the new Special Regime for Direct Adjustments, which should be covered by the Code of Public Contracts and not dealt with in casuistically or concomitantly with the exemption from prior supervision by the Court of Auditors, in accordance with Articles 70. o, 151. o, 155. o, 216. o is 249. o. This position of the Government is based on criticisms and suggestions of the Court of Auditors, which is extremely serious, but even more serious is that it also challenges the political confidence capital acquired among the various political forces involved in the elaboration and approval of the Government's recent proposal, Law No 41 / XIV / 1. a, concerning public procurement. The PSD reaffirmed that it was available for changes in public procurement to simplify and minimize litigation, without undermining transparency, which does not occur with the creation of these new special schemes parallel to the Public Contracts Code. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u110	We will proceed to the discussion of the proposal, the PSD, of the addition of Article 152. o -A — National Plant of Leiria. Mrs Margarida Balsairo Lopes has the floor of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u111	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members, on October 15, 2017, the Pinhal de Leiria was practically reduced to ashes. More than three years have passed and, unfortunately, Pinhal is practically like the fire has left him. That is the conviction of the experts, that is the belief of the autarchs and that is the feeling of the populations — the feeling that Pinhal was left to the abandonment. We know, however, that the State has received EUR 16 million in revenue from the sale of burned wood and what we want is as simple as the guarantee and legal obligation that this money is fully used in Pinhal de Leiria : EUR 5 million already in 2021 and, for the sake of transparency, the creation of a portal where the use of all funds and the recovery plan of the Leiria Forest is public. The appeal I make is this: if the Pinhal of Leiria is a national priority for all parties in the Assembly, join this proposal of the PSD, especially the Socialist Party, making it possible to guarantee that the Pinhal of Leiria is not left to abandon. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u112	We are now discussing the proposal for an addendum to Article 157. o -A — Support for energy expenditure by farmers.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u113	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u114	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u115	Mr President, I have just made three entries to speak on proposals for articles 154. o -A. I can give you the numbers of the proposals.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u116	Say it, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u117	Proposal 624 - C, on Montijo airport, which I shall present to you; proposal 646 - C, on hope spots, which will be Mrs Inês de Sousa Real to present; and proposal 1039 - C, on the labelling of olive oil, which I will present to you. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u118	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the inscriptions are being made very above the announcement of the discussion. He asked them to do so in advance so that we could give some momentum to this work.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u119	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u120	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u121	Mr President spoke on the proposal for a Rule 157. the -A and, however, I have remembered the proposal of Article 154. o -A. However, we have also registered, more than half an hour ago, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real to intervene on the proposal 648 - C, adding an article 155. o -A on the creation of training programmes for new florist farmers.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u122	Mrs. Members, we will avoid entries made directly to the Bureau. I therefore reiterate the normality of the work, even in the context of the proposal for an addendum to Article 152. o -A, on the National Forest of Leiria, has the floor of Mrs Mariana Silva of the ENP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u123	Mr President, I have signed up to speak on the proposals for an addendum to Article 156. o -A and Article 157. o.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u124	Thank you very much, Mrs. Deputies. [[Pause.]] We then move on to the discussion of the proposal, of the NAP, of the addition of Article 154. o -A — Contribution on plastic bags and bags with wings. Mr. André Silva, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u125	Mr President, our first intervention is on proposal 624 - C, adding an article 154. -A— Strategic environmental assessment for the new Lisbon airport, not on proposal 1067 - C on plastic bags. Building the airport in Montijo is to destroy ecosystems and biodiversity, it is to question the safety and quality of life of the populations and, given that it will become a hydroport in a few years, it is to invest without a medium- and long-term vision. Unlike other parties, the position of the NAP is and has always been clear: we defend the airport in Beja, but, above all, we want to comply with the law and make a strategic environmental assessment of the various locations hypotheses. The NAP proposal is now made, it is time for PS and PSD to choose which side they are from: whether on the side of the lobbyists of construction and aviation or on the side of compliance with legality and respect for the environment, biodiversity and citizens.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u126	We turn to proposal 26 - C to add Article 156. o -A — Strengthening human resources for the conservation of nature and biodiversity. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Members, also before that, we have the proposal 648 - C, to add an article 155. o -A. The Bureau shall not register any entries for proposals prior to this one.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u127	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u128	Mr. Deputies, if it is to sign up, I would be grateful if you could use the phone.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u129	But can I take the floor, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u130	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u131	For an appeal to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u132	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u133	Mr President, about an hour ago — and 5 minutes ago, orally — I entered the NAP for three interventions under three proposals for the addition of Articles 154. o -A, of which we have only done one: the intervention on proposal 624 - C is made, the intervention on proposal 646 - C will be made by Mrs Inês de Sousa Real and the intervention on proposal 1039 - C will be done by me. I also gave the indication of the registration of the NAP, which had already been made at the Bureau, to intervene on proposal 648 - C, to add an article 155. o -A. Mr President, however, went on to proposals after these and I therefore thought that I should make this alert. Therefore, this means that two NAP interventions will now take place on two proposed additions to Article 154. o -A. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u134	Well, let's hope it's all disarmed. In order to intervene on the proposal 646 - C of the NAP, an addition to Article 154. -A— Creating maritime hope spots, has the floor to Mrs Inês de Sousa Real of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u135	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, the NAP has proposed the creation of a special legal regime for the creation of the so-called 'hope points', either for the planet or for our country, to choose between the marine areas to be classified, which also promote citizen participation and the academic and scientific community, with a view to ensuring greater protection of our marine ecosystems and existing biodiversity. About 70 % of the habitats in Portugal, even those classified under the Natura 2000 Network, are in fact very weak, already in a bad or deteriorating state, according to the various international reports on the subject. In the case of our country, the reports even conclude that it has increased its special areas of conservation, a reality that needs to reverse, thus creating protected areas that become examples, not only locally but also globally, and "points of hope" so that we do not reach the point of non-return and recover species.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u136	In order to intervene on the proposal 1039 - C of the NAP, an addition to Article 154. o -A — Environmental labelling of olive oil, Mr André Silva, of the NAP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u137	Mr President, the uniformization of intensive oil production is destroying our agrobiodiverse heritage. On the other hand, the traditional olive cultivation method has a lower environmental impact, since little use is made of agrotoxics. However, the consumer, in the supermarket, cannot distinguish what he buys. At present, olive oil reaching the market has no reference to the type of agricultural system — if it is traditional, intensive or superintensive. Therefore, due to the environmental, territorial and landscape impacts, it seems to us important to differentiate with the consumer the type of cultivation system from which olive oil comes, allowing the right to information and the possibility of a conscious and responsible choice. The NAP proposal, when introducing this labelling, extends the rights of consumers by providing information that is now closed to them.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u138	In order to intervene on the proposal 648 - C of the NAP, an addendum to Article 155. The creation of training programmes for new Florestal farmers has the floor of Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u139	Mr President, we cannot ignore the fact that recent studies have alerted us to habitat loss and biodiversity decline. It has hardly been possible to combine agricultural activity with the preservation of ecosystems, in particular agricultural steppes, with impact on species of protected birds, even threatened with extinction, already adding the loss of a total of about 35 000 ha of areas which have been damaged in special protection areas at national level. For the NAP, it is indeed urgent to rethink and invest in the reconciliation of agriculture with the conservation of biodiversity and sustainable development, supporting specific programmes for farmers and engaging in their training, particularly for new Florestal farmers, in particular with regard to organic forest production and syntropic agriculture, to ensure best practices in our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u140	To intervene on the proposal of the ENP to add an Article 156. the -A— Strengthening of human resources for the conservation of nature and biodiversity, has the floor of Mrs Mariana Silva of the ENP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u141	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the human resources intended to preserve nature and biodiversity remain much less than necessary to ensure the minimum requirements, particularly within the national network of classified areas, which, having obtained protection status in the legal diplomas that created them, eventually in practice find a true model of deprotection. thus, it is important to continue to provide the Institute of Conservation of Nature and Forests with the necessary human resources, hiring nature watchers, operational assistants and superior technicians. It is essential to take visible steps to recover professionals who contribute to the protection of ecosystems and a natural heritage that is increasingly urgent to preserve.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u142	To intervene on the proposal of the PSD to add an article 157. o -A — Support for energy expenditure by farmers, Mr João Marques, of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u143	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, the PSD proposes Article 157. o -A, in order to reintroduce the so-called 'green electricity' in 2021. We intend to create more favourable conditions for agricultural production in the national territory, contrary to what other parties supporting this Budget intend to do. In the PSD, we are clear: we support the creation of conditions for the competitiveness of the national agricultural sector, in particular by reducing the cost of context. In the face of all the uncertainty that the pandemic carries, the PSD defends a bet in a sector that can't stop. We defend a reduction in the cost of energy used exclusively in agricultural and livestock production based on the history of consumption in the last three years, and can go up to 30 %, in fact, as already done in 2012, and not as the Government decided by 2020, when, contrary to the spirit of the law, it has defined the percentage support for the contracted power, resulting in unrealistic support amounts, slightly distorting a measure already adopted by this Parliament as a way to support the sector in 2020. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u144	In order to intervene on the proposal for an addendum to Article 157 of the ENP. o -A— Recruitment of Florestal Guards, has the floor of Mrs Mariana Silva of the ENP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u145	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, there is a great shortage of Florist guards and, despite the entry of new professionals into the Nature and Environment Protection Service this year, the number is far from responding to needs, especially in the context of the prevention of forest fires and many other functions. It should be recalled that, with the decision to extinguish this force, only reverted three years ago, since 2006, no admission contest for the lifeguard career was opened. In addition, the average age of professionals is high, providing for the exit of many of these professionals in the short and medium term, being essential to rejuvenate the career. This is the time to take strong measures to counter this emptying.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u146	We turn to Article 161. o — Prisons of Lisbon, Setúbal and Montijo and reinstallation of central services of the Ministry of Justice and the courts of Lisbon. Mr. Paulo Leitão, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u147	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Deputies, the Prison Establishment of Coimbra, whose construction dates back to the 19th century, is in a high state of degradation, suffering from deficiencies in civil construction, electrical facilities, infrastructure and mechanical installations, as reported in the 2017 Prison and Guardian System Report. in this report, we also mention the strategic importance of its central location at national level. As regards weaknesses related to its location, it is located in the center of the city of Coimbra, next to the University's Polo I and the area classified as Humanity Heritage. The relocation of this Prison Establishment has been foreseen since 1994, including studies carried out by the central administration and commitments signed with the municipality, thus justifying that this old ambition of Coimbra emerges from the role and is a reality in the coming years. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u148	We enter Article 163. o — Legislative authorization under the Digital Mobile Key authentication system. Mr Fernando Anastácio, from the PS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u149	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to speak essentially of a matter which has to do with the pandemic and with the importance that adjustments need to be made to comply with tax obligations. In particular, I would like to refer to a proposal from the Socialist Party that has to do with the known SAF-T (Standard Audit File for Tax Purposes) and the information to be provided in the IES (Simplified Business Information), in which, in addition to extending the deadline, there was care to try to apply the same to the obligation of the bar code in invoices. But we are not talking strictly about an extension of time, we are also talking about the commitment to be able to support small and micro-enterprises in this work, in particular by increasing the costs that these companies will have in implementing these tax obligations. Therefore, once again, there is concern that, on the one hand, it will facilitate and, on the other hand, give conditions to micro, small and medium-sized enterprises so that there is greater transparency and articulation within their tasks and their relationship with tax administration. This was the note I wanted to leave. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u150	We move on to the proposal for an addendum to Article 164. o -A — Support for the return to culture, recreation and sport activities. Mrs Alma Rivera from the PCP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u151	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, without association movement there is no music, there is no sport, there is no theatre, culture, convivio, social action, educational and environmental activities for millions of Portuguese. Access to these rights is a condition for democracy. In many areas of the country, it is only through the association, community or local club that children, young people, adults and the elderly have access to these dimensions of life. Today, all of this is at risk and what is in the hands of the gentlemen. Members are the decision to let these structures agonize and disappear or to ensure that the government will ensure the present and future of the association movement. The CFP brings to the discussion, in the specialty, proposals that can make all the difference. Approving the proposal of the CFP from a EUR 60 million fund to resume activity to meet immediate needs and adopt essential health measures can save many associations. To vote in favour of the proposal of the PCP for the exemption of IRC (tax on the income of the public) up to €30 000, makes all the difference, as does the implementation of self-protection measures in buildings and the safeguarding of libraries and archives of associations. If you value youth and its participation, then this House must approve the proposal to support the resumption of activities of the youth associations of EUR 5 million. A word about sport: there would be much to say about integration, about the promotion of physical and mental health, about the importance of sport for Portugal and how this will be decisive in overcoming this moment, but today what is needed is to approve concrete measures, such as the return to clubs of value of VAT (tax on value added) of sports equipment and materials or to help trainers and their training.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u152	To intervene on the proposal for an addendum to Article 171. o -A— Amendment to the Rules of Procedure of the case of the Advocates and Applicants, has the floor of Mrs Joana Sá Pereira, of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u153	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, when we face this crisis we choose to give priority to the protection of those who need the most and those who are most affected by it. This State Budget proposal strengthens the social state in its basic mission of being next to those who need, when more precise, promoting a sustained improvement in the conditions and levels of social protection. But we know that not everyone benefits from a public social security system. Lawyers, applicants and implementing agents are part of an autonomous security system, which, at the time they most needed, did not mean « present ». And, precisely for that reason, we approved in this House in the Supplementary Budget an extraordinary social benefit for these more than 30,000 professionals. It was, therefore, with deep perplexity that we found that the Safety Box, in the implementation of this measure, demanded that the applicants be almost destitute, preventing, unacceptably, the granting of this support. With this proposal for an amendment tabled by the PS Parliamentary Group, we remove these obstacles promoted by the CPAS (Advocacy Box of Lawyers and Applicants) and allow these professionals worthy and fair support in the context of vulnerability. We don't fail anyone you need! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u154	We now turn to the proposal to add an article to Article 171. o -A— Distribution of the State's institutional advertising. Mr Rosário Gambôa, from the PS, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u155	Mr. President, I welcome you. Members of the Government and the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. Local and regional media agencies undoubtedly play a crucial role in democracy, in the territories, in strengthening the participation and involvement of citizens. in this sense, the Socialist Party, concerned with the well-being and importance of these media agencies, entered in the previous State Budget of 2020, a proposal to amend the law of institutional advertising of the State, Law No 95 / 2015. This amendment was intended primarily to enable the mechanisms to support these bodies, increasing their capacity, to be present in the organised institutional advertising campaigns. This was done through two essential measures: opening these campaigns, determining the obligation that at least 25% of these campaigns would be directed to these bodies and, at the same time, reducing the value that could be achieved through these campaigns, i.e. from €15 000 to €5,000. This year, from the same concern, the Socialist Party has proposed an addition which not only reinforces this measure, as makes it absolutely unequivocal, allowing local and regional media bodies to carry out what is their mission. This is, we propose a new amendment to Article 8. the law of the institutional advertising of the State, defining that it should be affected by local and regional media bodies a percentage never less than 25 % of the overall planned cost of each state institutional advertising campaign, in the unit value or more than 5000 €. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u156	Let us now turn to Article 174. o — Strengthening of non-teaching staff in public school. Mr António Cunha, from the PSD, has the floor. [[Pause.]] I apologize to you, Mr President, but the Bureau received an inscription on an earlier article. To intervene on the proposal for an addendum to Article 173. the -A - Update of the value of scientific research scholarships, has the floor of Mrs Maria Begonha of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u157	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the proposal in question by the Socialist Party is, in fact, the proposal that presents the freezing of the value of the propines of all study cycles in public higher education in the coming academic year. This is a necessary proposal and a fair proposal for students and their families, because the economic crisis that the country is going through does not divert us from the path we have pursued, in which access to higher education for all those who want it is at the heart of the country's priorities. It is a higher education that is not yet accessible to all those who want to attend it, but the PS will continue to contribute and work side by side with the institutions, with students to democratise access and improve the quality of education to which everyone is entitled, without exception. in this field, we all know the failure of the right in a recent past. in a crisis context, school dropout was allowed without doing anything. But it is precisely the policies for the growth of social action, from year to year, of reducing the cost of propines, from year to year, that enable us, aware of the scenario of gravity, not to be faced with an even more urgent scenario today. We conclude that commitments between the parties on the left are worth achieving steps and that progress in the fight for a more universal and fair higher education has been one of the evidence of the need for a left-wing majority in Parliament and of political will in the government. We therefore present a public guarantee that during this crisis the State will not allow higher education to fall into the habit of being a privilege of some, without serving all, nor do we accept peacefully that it is synonymous with great sacrifice for so many students who are left out of social support. The PS presents the public guarantee of the decency not to charge more than 1 € of tips to students in the next school year. Higher and political education institutions are part of our community, are pillars of our society and must be inserted in the context of solidarity that is required, taking its place, without coveting profit and, on the contrary, making use of the autonomy they defend, without being alien to the difficult economic context that the country crosses. These are the reasons for this proposal for extreme balance, for establishing justice. We also count on the institutions so that they can go further, to the decency that no more than 1 € of propines or any other costs should be charged to any higher education student. Because this Budget is on the side of those who need it most, we thus, and clearly, respond to the need and appeals of students to stop this worsening. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u158	With regard to this article, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor of the PAN. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u159	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, relatively, not only to this article but also to the proposal for an addendum to Article 163. o -A, the NAP presents a set of proposals aimed at guaranteeing the rights of young people in a university context, starting with social support, which are due to them in the particular context of socio-economic crisis, such as food support, but also at the level of inclusion. Inclusive education cannot be restricted only to compulsory education, it is essential that we extend it to university education. In university education, deaf students, for example today, have no support if they don't spend the year. It is essential to create a Portuguese gestal-language interpreters scholarship that guarantees the existence of a response to their real needs and access to education. Also in the context of higher education, it is essential to extend the U.S. pilot project to all university contexts in order to increase the perception and safety of students, either at the level of the school context or at the level of university residences. This is an old student claim. It makes no sense that, while attending university education, assaults that are absolutely unpunished or even the death, absolutely unjustifiable, of students continue to occur. Thus, insecurity and lack of surveillance cannot continue to regulate the university context and we cannot continue to leave the students behind.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u160	Mr Luís Monteiro, from BE, has the floor to speak in this article. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u161	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in the last two years, the Assembly of the Republic has taken responsibility for countering a new path to which it has been followed in the last three decades, practically. The reduction of tips in higher education was a drawback in its value, but at the same time it was a giant advance and had a very considerable political and also financial weight: we eased the weight on whom it is studying and we guarantee that it was possible to have fewer tips and more bags. The previous path, in fact, had been closed to seven keys for many and many years. The path followed had that merit and today we are also experiencing consequences of this: we have more students in higher education, we have more scholarships in higher education. But it would be so important if the Socialist Party had not given up on continuing to reduce the maximum value of propines. And if it is true that the discussions we have made over the past two years have ensured that this was exactly the way — we were starting a path to reduce our propines — it is strange that the Socialist Party today presents here as decent what it is to keep everything exactly the same. However, the political debate we have had over the past two years has not been in order to keep everything the same, it has been in order to reduce the props. Therefore, the most important thing now, at a time of crisis, would be to continue this path and not to break with what had been, as was said very well here, an agreement with the left over the fight against propines. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u162	Let us now turn to a proposal for an addendum to Article 171. -A— Programme to support artistic and cultural work. Mrs Ana Mesquita from the PCP has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u163	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the CFP has presented about two dozen proposals for change in the area of culture. It is necessary to reach 1% of the State budget for the area of culture, with a plan and proposals that meet the structural needs of the right to culture throughout the country. It is necessary to respond to the dramatic situation experienced by the workers of culture. Therefore, in addition to general measures in the area of work and social security, we propose a programme to support artistic and cultural work. This is a direct, non-competitive support to be allocated throughout the year of 2021, regardless of existing creation support, compensating the difference of presentation costs in pre-pandamy context and during the pandemic, promoting the presentation of more work and promoting the existence of better conditions and more spaces for artistic work presentation. In addition, we propose strengthening DGArtes ( Directorate-General for Arts) in EUR 6 million, support for regional orchestras, circus activities and public libraries. We propose that the operating costs and projects of ICA ( Instituto do Cinema e do Audiovisual ) and Cinemateca be taken into account, financing beyond the rates. We propose and support the strengthening of national plans for arts, cinema and reading, the increase of literary scholarships and the hiring of 250 workers to the Directorate-General for Cultural Heritage ( DGPC ) and to the regional direction of culture. We propose to compensate for the breakdown of the own revenue of the museums and monuments of DGPC, strengthen the Museum Support Programme of the Portuguese Network of Museums and reactivate the National Plan of Archaeological Works, with an amount worthy of at least EUR 1 million. Finally, we advocate that, instead of a raisin that encourages the game and that disresponsibility of the state of its obligations towards the heritage, a sum of EUR 212 million is allocated for interventions to safeguard the classified or grading public heritage. Culture cannot continue to stop and cannot continue in agony. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u164	To intervene on Article 174. o — Strengthening the allocation of non-teaching staff in public school, now yes, Mr António Cunha, of the PSD, the word is yours. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u165	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, the rhetoric of this government has been that of the methodical denial of what is happening in public schools in relation to the dramatic lack of non-teaching staff. Official data from the Ministry of Education testify that from 2015 to 2019 the public school lost 4654 employees. It is regrettable that they announce the reinforcement of 5000 operational assistants, when it is known that, in the vast majority, they are replacements of temporary contracts by finals. It is good for workers, but it is not a net reinforcement of workers for schools. It is not for the government to throw numbers into the air, as is appropriate, with the support of the PS, but to manage seriously and quickly hire the necessary resources for schools.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u166	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u167	It is up to us here to monitor. Therefore, with the data collected from the State Organization Information System ( SIOE ), the PSD proposes that the Government publish quarterly a summary of movements of workers from central and local administrations who perform functions in schools, so that we know clearly, by category and by career of bond, the actual flows of entry and exits of workers, so that it is possible for this Assembly to monitor, as it is competent, based on reliable indicators and not on fantasies. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u168	In order to intervene on proposal 199 - C of the IL, an addition to Article 175. Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor of the transparency of the process of implementing the European funds.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u169	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Portugal will receive, by 2027, twice or triple of the European funds it has received annually so far. The government, stubbornly, maintains the governance model and hopes to achieve different results with the same model. We disagree. But at least in terms of transparency, something will have to change. We therefore propose, with this proposal 199 - C, the establishment of a portal for transparency in the implementation of the European Funds. It is a portal containing the amounts, promoters, objectives and calendars, which can be verified in practically real time, a portal that is free access, easy understanding and automatic or automated data extraction. But we are not left here in terms of transparency. We want clear rules for the successive supervision of all contracts which are exempt from prior notice of the Court of Auditors. We want to prevent captivating for regulators. We want to strengthen money for the Constitutional Court, so that the Transparency Entity will finally see the light of the day. We want to propose, once again, in this Budget, the elimination of the tax benefits of political parties, because unjustified privileges and benefits of parties and politicians are the most weakening of the basis of liberal democracy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u170	In order to intervene on proposal 981 - C, adding an article 176. o-C — Provisions relating to the financing of special education establishments...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u171	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u172	Mrs. Member, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u173	Mr President, I am sorry but we had given the indication that Mrs Ana Mesquita would make an intervention in relation to the addition of Article 176. o -A.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u174	Thank you very much. Therefore, to intervene in relation to the proposal 1281 - C of the CFP, to add an article 176. o -A— Strengthening the social action of schools in compulsory public education, has the floor of Mrs Ana Mesquita of the PCP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u175	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the CFP advocates the realization of the right to a free and quality public school and brings to the State budget a number of proposals in this regard, improving the conditions of operation and ensuring more social action at school. We propose the reduction of the number of students per class, in compulsory education, essential measure, especially in the context of the pandemic that we go through. We propose the public management of school canteens, guaranteeing all workers the materials and financial resources necessary for the proper functioning. We propose the extension of the public artistic education network specialized throughout the national territory and the free distribution of new school textbooks to all students of the first cycle of basic education of the public network of the Ministry of Education. We propose the free distribution of educational resources, including paper books, to all students of the first cycle of basic education of the public network of the Ministry of Education and the allocation to public schools of the first cycle of specific allocation for the acquisition of teaching material. Finally, we have a very concrete and very important proposal for families in relation to strengthening social action in compulsory public education. This is the increase in the participation values of school material for steps A, B and C, the housing in family residence in secondary education for steps A, B and C, the study visits by 100 % for all stages and the feeding by 100 % for all stages. This is also about repositioning in step A of step B and step C students in case of unintended unemployment or reduced working hours in the family. Finally, we propose that the free distribution of fruit and milk scheme be extended to all children who attend compulsory education in public schools.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u176	In order to intervene on proposal 981 - C, adding an article 176. o-C — Provisions relating to the financing of special education establishments, has the floor of Mrs Cláudia André of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u177	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the proposal here concerns educational and special education establishments, with cooperation agreement with the Ministry of Education, which aim to support the learning and inclusion of very special students. In the portfolio mentioned by Decree-Law No 54 / 2018, it is recognized that these institutions are a valuable resource in the development of an inclusive school for all children and young people with special educational needs. Despite the provision of a single service and of all recognition, the values fixed in the portfolio have not been updated since 2009. To the enormous difficulties with these establishments, there is still a delay in transfers from the Ministry of Education which, although authorized by the Council of Ministers No 91 / 2019, concerning the 2019 / 2020 school year, have not yet been carried out. This PSD proposal updates the funding values of special education establishments, under equitable conditions with that of the other specific resources that exist in the community, i.e. other equivalent institutions. But as important as this is also to ensure that long-standing commitments with institutions, families and students will be honored. Inclusion has been a recurring word given by this Government and by all parliamentary groups. It was time to make a living on this issue, voting in favour of this proposal. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u178	To intervene on Article 179. o — Programme contracts in the field of health, has the floor Mr. Under-Secretary of State and Tax Affairs, Antonio Mendes.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u179	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, starting the discussion in the plenary of a series of articles on health, which is certainly the topic that is of greatest concern to Portuguese and Portuguese at the moment, it seems very relevant to us that we can remember three things. First, we remember to the right what they did not long ago, between 2011 and 2015. The right was responsible for the backwardness in tax revenue transfers to the National Health Service. For four years, consecutively, transfers to the National Health Service were below EUR 8000 million, the lowest value of the entire decade. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u180	The country was bankrupt!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u181	For four years, they decapitalized the National Health Service, because your agenda was even to promote a health system not with the dorsal spine in the National Health Service, but in the private sector, the cover of supposed freedom of choice. Your decapitalization has then had a recovery in recent years, which we have done in conjunction with the Left Block, the PCP and the Green Party. It was a recovery of over 2500 million euros of transfers to the National Health Service, which represents, in liquid terms, just to give an example, more 4500 health professionals in the National Health Service. I would like to say that the State budget for 2021 provides for an increase of more than EUR 1200 million in the National Health Service than the State budget for 2020. If we compare with the Supplementary Budget, in which we have already made a reinforcement, the increase of the allocation for the National Health Service is over EUR 800 million. This is therefore a State budget that does not lack what is most necessary, which is the fight, in the public health dimension, to this pandemic. This strengthening of the National Health Service is very important, because it materializes in more means of testing, more means of screening, more human resources and more capacity. We are even available at the specialty stage to further improve the bet on the National Health Service. Therefore, we will follow up some of the measures that may make the response capacity even better, both at the level of primary health care, as well as at the level of hospital equipment or equipment. This is the response that the Portuguese demand, a firm and responsible response, of those who invested in the National Health Service, and not those who, demagogicly, now come to say that they want to give everything to everyone, when, in reality, their history shows a brutal cut in transfers to the National Health Service. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We will continue, in the field of expertise, with responsibility, to further improve the dimension of the response of the National Health Service, a response that will surely be up to what we need. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u182	We now move on to the proposal by the PS to add an article 179. o -A— Community mental health teams for childhood and adolescence. Mrs Telma Guerreiro of the Socialist Party has the floor to present the initiative of her party.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u183	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Members of Parliament and Members of the Commission. Ladies and gentlemen, this State budget, I know - well, it is about combating the pandemic. It is a Budget that, above all, responds to a huge need for weighting, prioritization and choice, and the Government has undoubtedly chosen health and mental health as unequivocal priorities. This is a choice of 19 million euros of unprecedented investment in the National Plan for Mental Health. With this choice there is a clear message of concern and care for the government in relation to Portuguese, an essential response to welfare and social cohesion. The PS Parliamentary Group, by insisting on the agenda of the five Community mental health teams for childhood and adolescence, intends to leave a clear message to the Government and this Parliament about their choice, in the urgency of putting these teams on the ground as quickly as possible. The PS Parliamentary Group intends to leave a clear message to the country, because this is a choice for children and young people, strengthening the most fragile area in mental health care. This is a choice for territorial cohesion, prioritizing a response of national equity. This is another responsible contribution from the PS which, unlike those who, on the first day of the vote, have lost consistency with the statements of their parliamentary leader and others who are afraid to accuse the government of minimums and resign. The PS Parliamentary Group ensures that this maximum crisis will respond with maximum liability measures for Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u184	In the context of this article, I give the floor to Mr Ventura from arrive.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u185	Mr President, this article is paradigmatic of the intervention of the Secretary of State and the Socialist Party. The fact that they bring mental health to this debate, when it is undoubtedly the most deprived area in Portugal, shows only a tremendous lack or political hypocrisy. In mental health, we have a fact that no country in Europe has: in health centres, for more than two years waiting for consultation. It's not a year, not three months, not six, it's two years! And bring this issue here today, as a great advance of the State Budget, can only be a joke for the Portuguese. [[Protests by PS Hortense Martins and Joana Lima Members.]] But I am glad you bring it here, because still yesterday Mr. Bastonário of the Order of Psychologists said that there is not, in Portugal, the minimum resource for mental, child and youth health. Bringing this issue to this debate can only be a joke! [[PS Member Protests Hortense Martins.]] Mr Secretary of State, the fact that he was very proud to say that he was able to break up with the past when his Government and the Government in which he participated are responsible for the greatest number of captivations in the history of democracy is once again playing with the Portuguese. More than 500 million in captivity, less than 30 % of the budget implemented in health and comes here saying that the right has not transferred the money to health! It is easy to transfer, but if, then, captivating is not worth continuing to transfer, because, at the end of the year, it will always be the same thing.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u186	Mrs Telma Guerreira of the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u187	Mr President, Mr Ventura, I am very sorry, but what you are going to do is vote against these 19 million euros that can deal with these difficulties. [[P.S.'s applause.]] To date, there has not been any State budget that gives priority to this area of health! This is the first budget that makes it unprecedented. I am sure that Mr. Bastonário of the Order of Psychologists will be, yes, proud of the work this 2021 Budget will do for mental health. This government has already put it on the agenda, but the honourable Member will vote against this opportunity. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u188	Mr. André Ventura, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u189	Madam Member, thank you very much, but I will just remind you, in the case of your memory, that the Government of 2015 already had it on the agenda, that of 2016 also, that of 2017 also, that of 2018 also, that of 2019 also, that of 2020 also and that of 2021. [[PS protests.]] So tell us that it's on the agenda is worth the same as zero! It is the same thing that the budget of millions is then captivated, that is, it's worth zero, it's not worth anything at all. Until we see it in the real life of the Portuguese, it's worth zero. [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u190	What's going on, what's going on! That is why I am not going to vote like others, with tibiasity, but I am going to vote face-to-face against this State budget, which, in fact, I have doubts that it will come to an end.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u191	Mrs Telma Guerreiro, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u192	Mr President, my speech is actually only to highlight the fact that the year 2021 has EUR 19 million for mental health. But nothing, that's all! And the honourable Member is going to vote against it! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u193	I now give the floor to Mr. Under-Secretary of State and Tax Affairs, Antonio Mendonça Mendes.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u194	Mr President, Mr. André Ventura, I know that populists owe very little to the truth. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u195	But let me tell you the following: a lie said often does not become true. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Register, Mr. Member : There are no captivations in the National Health Service. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u196	Mr. André Ventura, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u197	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, thanks for the intervention and clarification. I am telling you again: if populists do not owe much to the truth, the Socialist Party certainly should not much, much to the truth. The truth is that in 2019 there were more than 500 million captivations. I know it wasn't with this Minister of Finance, but with the other one whom Mr. Secretary of State even liked particularly, but there were more than 500 million in captivity! Mr. Secretary of State, you can say what you want, but it will be at the end of the year that we will see how much it has been captivated and how much it has been invested, because of socialist promises we are all tired of.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u198	It's in the law!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u199	We now turn to the proposal submitted by the PS to add Article 179. o -A — Amendment to Ordinance No 337 - C / 2018, of 31 December, which establishes the system of State participation in the price of thermal treatments prescribed in primary health care of the National Health Service. To speak on this proposal, I give the floor to Mr Luís Soares of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u200	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Member of the Government, Mr. Secretary of State, after a very few years, said that there was a difference between the PSD Government and the PS Government as regards its position in the National Health Service. We can go back a little bit more: since the constitution of the National Health Service, whenever the left has joined together and when the PS governs, the National Health Service advances; since the constitution of the National Health Service, whenever the right governs, the SNS retreats. Move to the left and turn to the right! The proposal that we bring here, however little budgetary significance it has, shows precisely the Socialist Party's position and the right position. Here, we have reaffirmed the PS's commitment to the low-density territories, to the interior, recovering what the PSD/CDS-PP government has cut. In 2018, we recovered the sharing of thermal treatments that the PSD and CDS-PP had cut. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this means something very simple: in 2019, the thermals could grow again, the turnover of an essential area could continue to grow. It is a simple measure that reveals social sensitivity in relation to difficult territories and that, above all, reveals that, with the left, the National Health Service advances and that, with the right, the National Health Service retreats. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u201	We moved on to Article 180. o — Users registered by family doctor. In order to intervene in this article, Mrs Sandra Pereira of the PSD has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u202	Mr President, first of all, I would like to say to Mr Under-Secretary of State and Tax Affairs that it is political dishonesty to come here to compare times which are not comparable at all. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u203	Nevertheless, let me remind you, Mr Secretary of State, that those who cut EUR 1000 million at the expense of the National Health Service were the Government of the Socialist Party, the Eng. José Socrates, and not the PSD Government.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u204	Very well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u205	This is beyond the debts he left for the others to pay. [[PSD applause.]] But if Mr. Secretary of State wants to talk about the period from 2011 to 2015, then let me tell you that the current government has reduced the number of Portuguese without a family doctor to only 80 000, when, from 2011 to 2015, the PSD governments have given a family doctor to over 800 000 Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u206	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u207	That's it, Mr. Secretary of State! Therefore, this Article 180. that of the proposed budget law has been promised, once again, that in 2021 the Government takes all measures to ensure that all users have an assigned family health team. First, it is a deceptive promise when we see that the State Budget no longer talks about giving family doctors, but only family health teams. [[PS Member Protests Hortense Martins.]] It is also a promise that is late, because Mr. Prime Minister, in 2017, promised this same to the Portuguese and failed to comply. I would like to ask the Socialist Party and the Government if this year, in 2021, they will fulfill the promise they made to the Portuguese in 2017. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u208	I give the floor again to Mr. Under-Secretary of State and Tax Affairs, Antonio Mendonça Mendes.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u209	Mr President, Mrs Sandra Pereira, I must remind you here that I think it is very important. The government that your party has incorporated has cleaned up on the basis of family medical users. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] Mrs Deputies, you have only done basic cleaning, because in 2010 the resources for the National Health Service gave EUR 8600 million. Do you know how much it was in 2012? It was EUR 7498 million! That was the size of the court you made when you were in government.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u210	It wasn't us! He's wrong! He's wrong!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u211	Madam Member, you came here to talk about political dishonesty and I'm here to tell you about political decoration. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u212	It's reaffirmation!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u213	Well!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u214	Even under the same article, I give the floor to Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u215	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the government comes here to tell us that health is at the top of everyone's priorities, but then olympically ignores a number of problems and tells us only of the millions that are invested in the national health system, without solving these basic problems. Today there are nearly 1 million Portuguese without a family doctor, that is, more than there was last year. We therefore propose that, by the end of the first half of 2021, the Government programme and, if it does not do so, allow people who use the private and social sector to have their family doctor at no additional cost to the State. Problem: There are hundreds of thousands of Portuguese with consultations and pending surgeries; Budget response: none. We propose that the SIGIC (Integrated System of Management of Inscriptions for Surgery) and the SIGA SNS (Integrated System of Management of Access of Users to the National Health Service) be extended also to the private and social sector to recover these delays. Problem: There is a constant degradation in the quality of primary health care services. We propose the implementation of USF (family health units) of type C that have given such good results as soon as they were working. Problem: There are difficulties and waste in the use of complementary methods of diagnosis and therapy. We propose the internalization of these means by evaluating the benefit to the citizen and the cost to the State. Mr. Secretary of State, health is not only COVID and is not only insured by SNS. The health of Portuguese is first, without ideological prejudices, and can't wait any longer.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u216	I also give the floor to Mrs Susana Correia from the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u217	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, this is a Combat and Strengthening Budget: to combat a pandemic at the global level, with an extreme level of demand in the treatment of patients who have never experienced; to strengthen the qualification of access, to value human resources and to invest in the National Health Service network. Mr. As and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, contrary to what we have heard in this House, this government has not given up and the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group does not give up! Do not give up when presenting a Budget that takes the appropriate measures to achieve the goal that all users have an assigned family health team. This Parliamentary Group did not give up and do not give up when it began the National Health Service Response Improvement Plan and when it was affixed to family health teams, home care and distance care. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in 2015 there were 449 family health units, in 2019 there were 564. It has been increasing the improvement and access to health care and all are included, from Erasmus students to migrants, asylum seekers and users of residential structures. No one remains behind: in the family nurse, in visual health, in the mobile health units, in the integration of care, in the Health Line 24. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this government has not given up and this parliamentary group has not given up when it has increased the supply of continuous care and palliative care, when it continuously increases the response in intensive care beds and when it provides an amount of EUR 33, EUR 7 million for the recovery of the care activity. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this Government and the PS Parliamentary Group did not give up when, in the fight against a pandemic, they sought solutions to ensure that, in security conditions, professionals and users can rely on the National Health Service. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this government and this parliamentary group have not given up. The Portuguese and Portuguese do not give up. The only sign of the withdrawal to which we witness is those who, in this House, cannot perceive the importance of this State Budget for the National Health Service and for the Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u218	Let's now go to Article 180. o -A— Recovery of consultations in primary health care. Mr. João Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u219	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, this State Budget is an opportunity to improve Portuguese access to health, and it is in this sense that the CFP presents a set of proposals aimed, above all, at improving that access, including the recovery of consultations in primary health care. Such consultations are essential in particular in monitoring chronic patients, early diagnosis, screening of cancer diseases and reference of patients for specialist consultations in hospitals. Thus, we propose the extension of the hours of operation of health centres, the allocation of an exceptional incentive in the recovery of consultations in health centres, the modernization of telecommunications systems and computer equipment in health centres. But we also present a set of proposals, such as strengthening public health units, and in each one there must be created vacancies corresponding to the professionals needed for the fulfilment of the ratios that are defined. We propose the fixing of a remuneration supplement for the exercise of public health authority functions, since after 11 years this remuneration supplement has never been allocated due to lack of regulation. To close the lack of regulation and ensure compliance with a duty provided for in the legislation, we propose that the remuneration supplement be set at 20 % of the basic remuneration. We propose the strengthening of intensive care beds, as Portugal continues to be one of the countries with fewer beds per 100,000 inhabitants and therefore the CFP proposes that intensive care units be strengthened with more 207 beds, plus 626 nurses and 198 operational assistants. The internalization of complementary means of diagnosis and therapy is essential. The National Health Service can and should be equipped with greater capacity to perform a set of complementary methods of diagnosis and therapy such as dialysis and endoscopy. We also propose the replacement of heavy equipment and the modernization and technological renewal of hospital equipment. Many of the heavy equipment in hospital units are obsolete and therefore it is important that their capacity be renewed. We also propose investments in primary health care where inadequate facilities remain without working conditions for professionals and without conditions for the provision of care for users, thus requiring public investment to improve these facilities. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u220	Let's move on to Article 181. o -A— Extension of support for drug expenditure for needy elderly people. Mr João Almeida, from the CDS-PP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u221	Mr President, the CDS presents a proposal for "valuable pharmacy" which is essential for the elderly with less resources. The aim of this proposal is to end the choice, which for us is totally unacceptable, of many elderly people who, on a monthly basis, have to do between buying food and buying drugs. This proposal has three characteristics that make it effective: first, to increase the number of elderly people who support the purchase of medicines, not limiting this support to elderly people who receive the supplementary support for the elderly (CSI) ; second, to increase the participation of the State in these medicines, giving a 100 % share for the elderly who have a monthly income after the purchase of medicines, less than €351 and 50 % for the elderly who have a monthly income of less than €655 ; third, to make this previous and not counter-refundable support, because of course, the main problem of these elderly people is treasury and reimbursement is not enough to end the problem of choosing between buying food and buying medicines. This is not an acceptable choice in a developed society and this CDS proposal allows to end it.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u222	We moved on to Article 182. o — Share of generics and biosimilars. Mrs Bebiana Cunha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u223	Mr President, we are registered for Rule 190. o.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u224	Let us then turn to Article 183. o — Implementation of the Plurianual Investment Plan for the National Health Service and the National Mental Health Plan. Mr Rui Cristina has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u225	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of five years of socialism in health, on new hospitals, the government has done zero! Despite the promises, they never realized anything! It is appropriate to say: "a lot of cunts and little grapes! Do not keep on seeking. ” [[PS Member Protests Hortense Martins.]] We spoke of a hospital whose construction was planned in the Budget for 2019 — the year in which the current Minister promised that it would cease to be a mirage — but in the last two years she simply disappeared from the budget maps. Therefore, the PSD proposes that the Government implement the investment plan approved in 2006 and finally launch the work of the new central and university hospital in Algarve. As a member elected by the Algarve, I am counting on the PS elected members in the region who, just over a year ago, in the full election campaign, said that the new Algarve hospital was one of the challenges for this legislature. Therefore, they are voting in favour of this proposal which implements an old and fair promise made to the algarves. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u226	Mrs. Susana Amador has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u227	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in this State budget we choose to continue to invest in improving the SNS and in the proper planning of new infrastructures that enhance networking. It is a fair choice that serves Portuguese, serves public health and territories from north to south of the country. It is a demanding path, I know, in a harsh and adverse economic and health context that will still mark the year of 2021. It is a choice that does not give up Portugal. It's our choice! Therefore, it will continue, as the Minister of Health mentioned here in this Chamber, the ambitious investment program in the SNS that allowed the Pediatric Hospital of São João, the Emergency Service of the Tondela-Viseu Hospital Centre, the new linear accelerators of the University Hospital Center of Coimbra and the Centro de Saúde do Crato and Nice to begin to gain body. The year 2021 will be marked, Mr. Members, for the unprecedented investment in primary health care units in EUR 90 million, for the completion of the construction process in the new Central Hospital of Alentejo and the launch of the competition for the construction of the nearby hospital of Seixal, works so desired by the people and which we will carry out when others have not. The combined investment bet on new equipment, properly designed and planned, as a program of investments in the health sector, as Plurianual Investment Plan for the SNS demonstrate, Mr. Members, it shows the unequivocal will to strengthen the SNS infrastructure, thus motivating professionals and improving the care to be given to users. Therefore, the proposals that are under consideration in the field of expertise and which lead to the strengthening of this path will be feasible. Until 2023 will start-CL the construction of new central hospitals of proximity: Lisboa Oriental, Seixal, Sintra, Alentejo and Madeira.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u228	Now it is!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u229	Such projects will have a total impact of EUR 950 million, of which 104 are expected, 3 still in 2021. investments in new hospitals add other structural investments that are contained in the Investment Programme in the Health Area ( PIAS), which provides for the implementation of interventions in 10 hospital centres at an overall investment amount of about 91 million euros. Among the numerous projects to improve execution infrastructure in the SNS, outstanding here, the IPO ( Portuguese Institute of Oncology) of Coimbra, the Hospital Center of Vila Nova de Gaia and Espinho, the Hospital Center of Tres-os-Montes and Alto Douro, or the Hospital Center of Setúbal.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u230	It's confirmation they didn't do anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u231	In order to respond to the remaining needs of the network, the Multi-Investment Plan for the National Health Service is still being implemented, with an additional amount of EUR 190 million, as is the result of Base XXIII of the Health Bases Act, which has proved to be such an important way of doing here in this House and with the Government. What we want, sirs. Members, it is quality health care, it is a safe environment and adequate response times. That's our choice, that's our way, as well as the response improvement plan in the SNS and energy efficiency in the equipment. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this budget proves that we do not give up improving...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u232	Look if they'd given up...!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u233	...and investing heavily in the SNS when the right, on the other hand, devalued it and decapitalized it. The history of PS is also the history of SNS. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u234	Let's move on to Article 183. o -A — Centre oncologica e unit de radiotherapy de Viseu. Mr Fernando Ruas has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u235	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that the approval of the proposal we are bringing here is of the most fundamental justice. It is intended, in a fundamental sector such as health, oncology and radiotherapy, to the Hospital Center of Tondela / Viseu, curiously, to respond to three inner districts, which, I think, are still forgotten and which are Viseu, Castle White and Guard. It has a practically completed implementation project, has a favourable opinion of the Health Regulatory Entity and, above all, has the support of the populations, of the district's party structures and, curiously, it has undertaken two governments, of the latest PSD Government and then of the Government that followed it from the Socialist Party, including with the placement of a plate in 2016, which still exists today on the site and which says « imminent beginning ». [[Rice from PSD MP Jorge Paulo Oliveira.]] I'd like to say, ladies and gentlemen. Members, who, for the sake of democracy, have confidence in those who represent them and, above all, also in whom they govern them, it is time to fulfill the promise. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u236	Let us turn to Article 185. o -A— Extraordinary risk allowance in the fight against pandemic in the disease COVID-19. Mrs Diana Ferreira from the PCP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u237	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members, we intend to guarantee all workers of essential services, including health workers, the right to a specific allowance for the risk of exposure to COVID-19. Thousands of workers, even at risk, are making a fundamental contribution to combating outbreaks and ensuring the functioning of essential services and the provision and guarantee of access to essential goods. In view of the additional requirements and risks to which these workers have been subject, a remunerative valuation is required. The CFP therefore proposes that all workers, the public and the private, who provide essential services, including in health, be entitled to a specific subsidy of 20 % of their salary to recognize and compensate these workers for the risk they are currently exposed to. But we cannot confuse this subsidy with the supplement of insanity, penosity and risk, because they are different compensations and different rights of workers. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u238	Mrs. Marta Freitas has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u239	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, this State Budget for 2021 has again strengthened the National Health Service with more investment, more health professionals, but has also implemented a risk subsidy for professionals, who, from the very first moment, have been in front of the fight against COVID-19, with more than 20 % of the basic salary. This risk allowance is indeed the Government's recognition of the essential work of health professionals and pre-hospital medical emergency teams, who are in constant contact with the SARS-CoV-2 virus and at effective risk of contagion, to whom an effort has been required, an increased work, but which never, ever, have hesitated, nor deny their mission to care and look for all of us, citizens, at this moment of great vulnerability and uncertainty in which everything has changed. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This subsidy is a recognition for those citizens who, like us, also feel fear, but whose gift, whose sense of mission speaks higher. It's the mission to be next door, from the moment we know that the virus has affected us to the end. Even at risk, they fight for us. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u240	We move on to the proposal submitted by the CDS-PP of Article 185. o -A— Extraordinary risk allowance for security forces and services professionals. Mr Telmo Correia, from the CDS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u241	Mr President, I would like to stress that this proposal is part of a series of proposals which the CDS submits specifically for security services professionals, particularly the police. Some of them have already been plunged, such as those relating to the reinforcement of equipment and to the load chambers, among others. We are waiting to see what the conclusions will be in terms of the indispensable reinforcement of security forces and services in a budget whose majority of us depend on will begin to understand what it will be. It will be a very important and relevant reading. On this point in particular, what do we say? We say that this budget should resolve once and for all the famous discussion on the risk allowance for these same security forces, bearing in mind that this Parliament has already adopted in the past, and not in the very distant past, a draft resolution on exactly the risk subsidy, for which the Government, of course, "heard to market", i.e. did not want to know, ignored and did not care about this matter. This is therefore a moment of clarification. It is fair that women and men in the security forces and services are entitled to a risk allowance and that all their remuneration is clarified, whether extra or complementary, as well as all that has not been paid so far, i.e. all the remuneration supplements that have been missing. I conclude by saying the following: if it is obvious that the allowance is fair for health professionals and for all of them, I ask whether women and men of the services and security forces are also not in the front line of the fight against this pandemic, since they often have to intervene daily, in circumstances sometimes very difficult, very demanding, to enforce the law. This subsidy is therefore, from our point of view, full of justice.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u242	We move on to the proposal submitted by the PSD of Article 60. o -A — Risk allowance for security forces professionals. Mr André Neves of the PSD has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u243	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, let me emphasise the role our security forces have played over the past few months in this pandemic context, from the promptness, availability and courage they have shown. It is customary to say that the security forces have been the ‘advanced guard’ of health professionals over the past few months. They're and they've always been on the front line for order fulfillment. They are and have always been in the front line for the prevention of public health possible at this time. But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, if the pandemic has clearly and unequivocally left the need for a risk allowance for our security forces, the risk that these professionals are running goes a long way beyond the pandemic. Physical wear, mental and emotional wear and, above all, permanent exposure to situations of potential risk to your own life make the allocation of this allowance more than recognition, more than gratitude for your work, is a matter of full justice for these women and men who make up the body of our security forces. Historically, the PSD has always been next to the sovereignty and security forces. With this proposal, it is intended to convey this demonstration of gratitude and recognition for the work of these professionals in our country. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u244	On Article 189. o — Recruitment of professionals for the National Institute of Medical Emergency, I.P., has the floor of Mrs Joana Lima of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u245	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Article 189. it strengthens the National Institute of Medical Emergency (INEM ) with more 261 professionals. The competitive procedures for the hiring of these professionals begin in the first quarter of 2021. This proposal also includes the strengthening of professionals for the Psychological Support and Crisis Intervention Centre ( CAPIC). To strengthen the number of professionals in INEM is to increase relief, to increase the medical emergency, to increase the chances of saving lives. To vote against the State budget for 2021 is to vote against the hiring of more professionals for INEM. This article is in line with the policy that the Government has and is carrying out in the hiring of more health professionals for the SNS. The Government proposes the hiring of over 4200 health professionals for 2021 and the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group proposes a timing in the contract and thus, in the first half of 2021, hire 2100 health professionals for the SNS. In 2015 the PSD left the country with a very large deficit of health professionals in the SNS [[That's not true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u246	What did the Portuguese PS government do? [[Nothing!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u247	You hired! He started a path of strengthening health professionals in the SNS. In 2015, there were 125,000 health professionals. By 2020, we have another 22,000 health professionals. [[P.S.'s applause.]] For 2015, there has to date been an increase of 4500 doctors in the SNS. From 2015 to 2020, there was an increase of over 9200 nurses. In other words, the expenditure on human resources from 2015 to 2020 was EUR 1200 million. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Government is making a remarkable way by strengthening the SNS with more professionals, as the INEM proposal now does. Vote for the State budget. The country needs it! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u248	We moved on to Article 190. o — Recruitment of health professionals. Mrs Paula Santos from the PCP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u249	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we need to go further in hiring professionals for the SNS. We therefore propose an effective increase of at least 6940 workers to ensure the requirements of the SNS. We also propose extending the response in the areas of mental health, visual health, oral health and rehabilitation. Professionals must be integrated into a career with public ties and not hired for four months. We must combat precariousness and we must integrate all those who perform permanent functions and have precarious links. It does not make sense that there are thousands of internal doctors who are unable to continue their training. Therefore, we propose the opening of an extraordinary competition for access to specialized medical training, especially in specialties with the greatest shortage. In order to contribute to the establishment of doctors in the deprived areas and to prevent vacancies in the competition from being deserted, we propose the extension of the scheme of incentives for the establishment of doctors in these areas for 6 years and the allocation of these incentives to internal physicians who fill preferential vacancies and start the professional exercise as doctors in health establishments that have caused these vacancies. It is necessary to create working conditions, strengthen the rights of health workers to choose to develop their professional activity in the SNS. We therefore propose the creation of the optional exclusive dedication scheme and its incentives and the application of the supplements and incentives provided for in the USF to all workers of the primary health care functional units. To ensure the allocation of physicians and family nurses to all users, we propose the adoption of transitional and exceptional measures such as the hiring of foreign physicians and the allocation of the incentives provided for doctors in areas lacking to doctors under retirement conditions. We will see in the vote those who follow the concrete solutions that the CFP is proposing to solve the problems and who demonstrate that the way goes not through the transfer of public resources to private groups but rather through the strengthening of the SNS. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u250	We move on to the proposal submitted by the NAP of Article 190. o -A — Strengthening of environmental health specialists. Mrs Bebiana Cunha from the NAP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u251	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, environmental health technicians have been forgotten in the ongoing recruitment processes in the last ten years. It is essential, we cannot neglect the role they play in inspections on soil quality, water quality, air quality. In fact, see the recent outbreak of legionella that we had in the North. Therefore, the proposal that the NAP brings, quite responsibly, is that a reinforcement of at least 30 of these professionals can be made. We will see who, on the other hand, has this conscience, whether it is health care, because these technicians are part of the public health teams, both environmental.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u252	We move on to the proposal submitted by the CDS-PP of Article 41. o -A — Recovery of care activity. Mrs Ana Rita Bessa of the CDS-PP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u253	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, at this moment, one of the central themes of our public life and, therefore, of this Budget, is health, as has been seen so far. Prior to the pandemic we knew of the difficulty of time and hours access to consultations, examinations and surgeries due to manifest inability to respond to the SNS. We all agree with 280 days waiting for a priority consultation of vascular surgery at the Egas Moniz Hospital, or with 1763 days waiting for a gynecology consultation at the Hospital de Portalegre, or with 628 days waiting for a pneumology consultation in Vila Real, just to give some examples. The PS government may, as Mr. Secretary of State said here, have spent many and many million on SNS, but the truth is that people are still waiting and increasingly waiting for their consultations, their examinations and their surgeries. Therefore, as long as this government does not understand that metric is not the millions spent on SNS, but the health result obtained, unfortunately, we will not leave this vicious circle. That is why the CDS proposes the creation of a green health channel so that, as with the surgeries — which the PS easily accepts — when beyond the maximum guaranteed response time, the users have the freedom to access a consultation and examinations at any other SNS hospital, whether in the public, social or private sector. But in times of pandemic, Mrs. Members, we have another problem, a greater problem with a more serious delay, which has to do with what happened with the suspension of the activity programmed in the SNS: 1 million presence consultations in hospitals to be carried out; 96,500 surgeries to be carried out; 820,000 presence consultations in primary health care to be carried out. We know that there is an excess of mortality that is not explained, that there are daily warnings about the dangers of oncology diagnoses and that there are currently new suspensions of scheduled activity, i.e. more consultations, more tests and more surgeries that will be pending. In order for the patients COVID, but also non-COVID patients, who are the vast majority, to stay behind once again, the CDS proposes that the Government, without tibiasses, establish a planned care recovery program covering primary health care to surgeries through private and social contractualization, for the use of part of the capacity of their health units, for a transitional period of six months, renewable and while warranting. Private and social sectors have already expressed their total availability and the choice is therefore very simple and is in the hands of PS, BE and PCP. What's coming first, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, at a time of crisis like this? Is it the health and life of our fellow citizens or is it your ideological proof of life? By the way, Mrs Paula Santos, because it is always appropriate to clarify it, we are not discussing any transfer of money from the public sector to the private sector. [[Protests from PCP MP Paula Santos.]] We're doing something that makes you very confused, which is caring for people's health. [[Protests from PCP MP Paula Santos.]] That is our responsibility and this decision is also in your hands today.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u254	We move on to a proposal submitted by BE in Article 28. o -A — Creating a career as an auxiliary health technician. First of all, Mrs. Joana Mortagua of BE has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u255	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we have all been in hospitals, where we have not been diagnosed by doctors without training, where we have not been sutured by nurses without qualification and also where we have not received health care by unqualified operational assistants. A fifth of the SNS workforce is not composed of unskilled or disqualified professionals, it is composed of health assistant technicians, who are invisible because they belong to a general career that does not distinguish them from a cantoner or a driver. Health assistant technicians perform essential functions of the SNS, care for users in the closest way — they feed, hygienicize and support. Without them operating blocks and support services do not work and there is even a training reference for these functions and for these professionals. But in practice, these professionals earn €645 per month and are not entitled to a career. That SNS is the one who can't stop its operational assistants from leaving the hospitals to work in a supermarket to earn the same wage with less risk? I would like to quote Marta Feared before being Minister to answer the question: « A SNS that, in fear of special careers, becomes more inefficient». So what changed? The country no longer needs an efficient SNS? It is that it was not only Mrs. Minister of Health, but also the PS approved a basic law that recognizes the need and right of a professional career to all those who perform differentiated functions in the field of health. Why does the Socialist Party not want and reject the career of health assistant technician? Catching and setting professionals to SNS is done with sensible and responsible proposals, such as the creation of the career of health assistant technician. The Minister knows that, the Socialist Party knows that. The only question is: why do you not approve this proposal? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u256	A proposal submitted by the PS for the addition of Article 190 is followed. o -A— Full dedication work scheme in the National Health Service. in this context, Mr José Maria Cardoso, of the Block of Left, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u257	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in recent years it has become a rule that we have tenders for SNS doctors to fill. For example, the last contract for the hiring of family doctors was 150 vacancies to be filled, which corresponds to 34 % of the vacancies placed in the tender. All this at a time when more than 1 million users are without a family doctor, in which the SNS lost more than 800 doctors during the pandemic and only 28 % of SNS doctors work in full dedication. But what reasons do they justify this loss of resources? Lack of doctors and training? That's not the case. Lack of incentives to professional career and remunerative valuation? Of course I do. If the goal is to make professionals stay in the SNS, if it is to make more professionals come to the SNS, if there is a substantial increase of professionals who opt for the full dedication regime, then effective resolutions are needed for the effectively diagnosed. The 2021 budget has no concrete measures to respond to these pressing needs, on the contrary, until it takes steps back. The full dedication, which was already in force in the 1990s and was planned in the Budget for 2020, has now disappeared. Therefore, the Left Block presents this proposed amendment, simple and effective: full dedication mandatory for those who head or coordinate services and / or departments and optional for all other professionals. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u258	As opposed to this exclusiveness to the SNS, a 40 % increase in remuneration and a progressive reduction in working hours from 55 years of age are created as incentives. What the Left Block has said in all this budgetary debate is that if there are no measures to captivate and fix professionals in the SNS, once again the announcements propagated by the government will be without any practical effect. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we are not talking about a circumstantial problem, perhaps aggravated by the pandemic, is a structural issue, which needs consolidated and consistent responses. The Programme of this Government provides for the adoption of new models of organization of work, based, among others, on the option for full dedication work, which is also provided for in the Health Bases Act, approved in 2019. It is not understood why the PS, the Government, does not want to apply this measure which creates guarantee mechanisms for the establishment of professionals in the SNS. It is appropriate to ask whether they prefer to maintain precarious contracts of 4 months, renewable or not, as is the case with nurses or nurses, or to insist on continuing subcontracting with health-working hire companies. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is time to move from the announcement to realisation, i.e. to stop making announcements and implement measures. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u259	I now give the floor to Mr Luís Soares of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u260	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I have already had the opportunity to say, this morning, that, when the Socialist Party governs, the National Health Service advances, when the right governs, the National Health Service retreats. The Socialist Party is a party committed to the National Health Service and this Budget reveals precisely this sense of commitment: from a budgetary point of view, we have recovered the funds necessary for the National Health Service to move forward, but also in terms of human resources and investment at the level of equipment. It is true, it is undeniable, that there is a difficulty of the National Health Service to attract and fix doctors and, therefore, here we reaffirm the commitment of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group to include the full dedication in this State budget, as we did in the Socialist Party's electoral programme, in the Government's programme and also in the Health Bases Act. We know that we can continue to move forward and we know that with the proposal of the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group we will also move forward in order to fix and attract more doctors to the National Health Service. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u261	We move on to the proposal submitted by the PSD to add an article180. o -A— Reduction of waiting times for surgeries, consultations, treatments and diagnoses. Mr António Maló de Abreu, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u262	Mr President, Mrs Joana Lima, Mr Under-Secretary of State and Tax Affairs, fortunately, the good Portuguese people will be aware that if Vasco da Gama sailed slowly and hesitantly from the PS and from the Government today was still about to arrive in India. Mrs. Members, Portuguese access to SNS health care, if it was no longer acceptable before the pandemic, this year has become much worse: millions of consultations, treatments and exams cancelled, hundreds of thousands of surgeries postponed; the result is being tragic, a true hecatomb of irreparable human costs. in this context, it is good to remember, with sadness and disappointment, the propaganda, irresponsible and repeated, that no one was left behind. It's just, sirs. Members died in 2020 plus 6000 Portuguese compared to the last five years. And they died not because they had CVID-19, but because the government did not give them access to the health care they needed, first of all because they were stubbornly attached to extremes, for party interest and ideological logic, and then because they failed to seek to mobilize all health services against the pandemic.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u263	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u264	Here you come, you have to take care of — and now! — of the living, so that there are no more preventable deaths. It is unacceptable that the waiting time for a first hospital medical consultation is 171 days, almost six months, and for an operation is 147 days, almost 5 months, as it revealed last month a report from the Court of Auditors. For all this, at this serious and serious time, the PSD, aware of its responsibilities, proposes an emergency plan for reducing waiting times for surgeries, treatments and diagnoses. A plan based on the SNS as a center and pillar of the system, but involving all — even everyone — health agents, whether in support and treatment of patients in a pandemic context, whether in the important design of recovery of our care activity, and brave, National Health Service. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u265	We move on to the proposal submitted by the PS to add an article 190. o -A — Amendment to Decree-Law No. 71 / 2019 of 27 May, which changes the regime of the special nursing career, as well as the nursing career regime in public corporate entities and health partnerships. Mrs Alexandra Tavares de Moura, of the Socialist Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u266	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is with a desire to do more and better that, with humility, we propose the integration of a standard that improves the nursing career regime. We correct an injustice because we know that everything that is done can be improved; because we want, in an ongoing act, to improve the conditions of workers in public functions; because we want careers to contribute to a stable system, able to capture talents and fix them in the Public Administration; because we want careers to be effectively valued. Changing the rule of transition will allow the holders of the nursing category who are appointed to the position of nurse-director or to the exercise of leadership and management functions to pass to the category of Nurse Specialist, thus repossessing the normal and due career development. Even at a time that is not comparable with any longer, we reinforce and value the careers of the National Health Service. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u267	In the context of this matter, I give the floor to Mr. Secretary of State for Health, Diogo Serras Lopes.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u268	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by saying that if there is anything that this pandemic has shown, it is the absolutely fundamental importance of a National Public Health Service and with a dimension that enables it to respond to this pandemic. This dimension of response capacity certainly has much to do with the investment that has been made for at least the last four years. Basically, I think we should all think about how it would be a response to a pandemic if there had not been a budget that has been growing, and significantly, as it has grown over these years—we are talking about more than EUR 2000 million from 2015 to 2020. We should consider how this National Health Service would respond, or how it would respond to a National Health Service that, between 2011 and 2014, increased from 122,000 professionals to 116 000 professionals and which, however, was able to recover to the current number of about 141 000 professionals. Somehow, I think we need to keep this in mind. It is good to have an SNS capable of responding, it is good to have a SNS that has learned and is continuing to cope with an absolutely unprecedented crisis, not only in Portugal, but in the world. If it is true that this pandemic creates very significant challenges to the care activity of the SNS, it is also true that a plan has already been created to recover the care activity. This plan for recovery of care activity is working, it is a plan focused on SNS professionals — as we believe it should — and for all purposes, none of the answers that existed previously ceased to exist or diminished their capacity. If we are talking about, for example, surgical vouchers, we have a higher issue by 3 % than that which occurred during the year 2019 in the same period. It is true that they were less used, but for all purposes it would also be reasonable to conclude that it was not only the public part of the SNS that had difficulties. There were also numerous entities, both private and social components, who had to decrease or close activity and none of this was, of course, simple, either for one or for another. With regard to the 2021 budget, it has already been said here, but it is never too much repeated - that this is a budget that reinforces the SNS budget in EUR 1210 million. Even in the face of the Supplementary Budget, it reinforces this budget by EUR 806 million. This budget contains measures such as the hiring of more 4200 professionals, such as the strengthening of INEM with more 261 professionals, such as the strengthening of mental health, which is indeed a priority for this government and which will continue to be - in fact - this is reflected both in these 19 million, now as well as in the fact that it is one of the fundamental pillars of the Recovery and Resilience Plan, which must also be considered clearly. By the way, I now use to say that the average waiting time for a psychiatry consultation in the various ARS(regional health administrations) is between 51 and 88 days. So I have some difficulty understanding some of the figures that were mentioned during this debate. Returning to the State budget for 2021, it is also proposed an extraordinary risk allowance for health professionals, the exemption from the payment of moderate fees in complementary diagnostic examinations and treatment prescribed in primary health care, a very, very significant increase in investment in primary health care, amounting to EUR 90 million, the extension of the integrated continuous care network, with an investment of EUR 27 million. It is also never too much to stress the start of the construction of the new central hospital of Alentejo, which was finally awarded during this month, and the competition for the construction of the new hospital of proximity of Seixal, among other matters, obviously. This does not mean that the State budget for 2021 is the best solution possible. I am sure that we will have an opening to follow up proposals that are moving towards strengthening the SNS in a framework of responsibility that characterizes this government. Finally, I wanted to talk about intensive care units. As you know, Portugal came from an extraordinarily fragile position in terms of ratio of intensive care beds per 100,000 inhabitants. This path has been made, not only now, but has been particularly accelerated during 2020, as we know, through investment in intensive care unit equipment and also the creation of a centralised funding programme for these units. The numbers, today, already show well what is the response capacity, which is absolutely fundamental in this pandemic context, but this effort to strengthen intensive medicine and intensive care capacity is to continue during the year 2021 and therefore we continue with the aim of reaching 11, 1 beds per 100 000 inhabitants during the year 2021. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u269	In order not to leave our work unfinished, we still have proposal 1175 - C, adding an article 100. -A— Legislative authorization for employment support in the resumed period. in this context, Mrs Rita Borges Madeira of the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u270	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members, one of the priorities of the Socialist Party has always been to combat precariousness, job instability and unemployment: to promote the creation of more and better employment, to eliminate poverty at work, to boost the rise in minimum wage, to curb wage inequalities. Until the beginning of this year, the Portuguese economy grew at five years above the euro area average and we had one of the best unemployment rates in recent decades. The truth is that everything has changed and we had to have the ability to respond to the pandemic crisis in order to mitigate its consequences, ensuring the maintenance of employment, supporting families and protecting businesses. In 2020, the extraordinary support created by this government covered 2, 23 million people and 151,000 companies with more than EUR 2100 million ; extraordinary measures were set up to respond at the time we went through ; 895 000 workers were covered by the Layoff ; 53 000 partners were supported; the stabilization complement was paid to 334,000 workers, among other measures supporting them, their incomes, their families and their quality of life. In 2021, the direction must be maintained, increasing even more the focus on the protection of employment and on strengthening the social state. One of the extraordinary measures created was the incentive to normalise the activity and support for recovery: 48 000 applications were approved, covering 485 000 workers, and EUR 272 million was paid. This measure was and is crucial for companies to recover their activities, for workers to maintain their links, to ensure young employment and to reduce unemployment. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group therefore presents, in this State budget, a proposal for the creation, amendment or extension, within the framework of the COVID-19 pandemic, of extraordinary support for the progressive resumption of business activity in a situation of business crisis, with the reduction of the normal working period, setting limits on redundancies and distribution of dividends, with the suspension of the expiry of collective contracts and imposing a fairer and fairer salary for all. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u271	There is a new inscription, which will certainly increase VV tolerance levels. Ex. concerning some hesitations of the Bureau. In order to intervene in the context of proposal 1419 - C, the addition of Article 136. o -A — Guarantee of whole wages, has the floor of Mrs Diana Ferreira of the PCP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u272	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, all workers must be guaranteed the whole salary, and this is the proposal presented by the CFP. We do not accept and reject any kind of cut in workers' wages, either through the layoff or through any other instrument or mechanism that is used for this purpose. Defending employment and workers' wages is essential to ensure that workers are able to cope with the moment we live, but also to curb current negative impacts and ensure the resumption of economic activity. in this same proposal, the CFP creates a public fund to support the payment of wages for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises ( MPME ) in crisis situations. Public money cannot go to the hands of economic groups, as happened to layoff and other instruments, but they have to serve to guarantee workers' rights and wages and support the MPMEs. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u273	In the same context, Mrs Ofélia Ramos, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u274	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with a clear and clear example of the lack of government strategy and coherence. I ask the socialist bench: how is it possible that the government has forgotten to provide for the extension of support for economic activity? This is inconceivable! The government should have considered this support in the bill and forgotten! Now, the PS comes with a proposal to extend this support, which is really not ambitious and does not meet people's needs, since the reduction of economic activity by 100 % of the time ends up not possible for certain situations and for certain economic activities. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u275	Mr. Secretary of State for Budget, Cláudia Joaquim, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u276	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Ofélia Ramos, the government did not forget, indeed, nor did I understand very well what it was referring to. The measures that, over recent months, have been defined, created and implemented by the government to deal with the effects of the pandemic are diverse and in many areas: health, education, wage protection, employment protection and the protection of people's incomes. All of these measures have been extended, adapted and strengthened according to the evolution of the pandemic, something that we will have to continue to do during the year 2021, something that we are now doing and we will continue to do. [[P.S.'s applause.]] All measures that are in force and are currently in force until 31 December 2020 will of course not remain until 31 December 2020 because the Government is assessing the need for its continuity and its terms. This is what we are doing, particularly with the new social provision of support for workers, because it was necessary to assess the extent to which income from families and workers needed to be protected in a scenario of pandemic, crisis and possible worsening of unemployment. There is a whole set of measures which cannot be seen in isolation. We cannot look at measures to maintain employment without looking at measures that, in a situation of unemployment, guarantee the protection of wages and substitute income wages. Therefore, in this framework, there is indeed a lack of vision, because when you criticise the measures, you need to look at all of them in an integrated way, because all of them are not isolated measures, Mrs Deputies. That is why, in the field of health, there have been several reinforcements, not only at the budgetary level, but also at the level of human resources. Of course, in the first phase, we had to contract the term, because we needed to understand what the pandemic would bring us and what the need for reinforcement: where, how, with what intensity. That is why, in recent weeks and in recent months, many have been the government's decisions to integrate these people into a permanent framework. Perhaps, they have not been aware of the decrees and diplomas that have been published, but every week, or almost every week, there has been a strengthening of the National Health Service, there has been a strengthening of human resources in schools, there has been a strengthening of human resources in the National Health Service, there has been a strengthening of various levels to deal with at every moment, for example in intensive care beds. Perhaps it is worth looking again at the PEES ( Economic and Social Stabilization Programme ), which has been implemented with great rigour. It was in this context and it was to continue to strengthen this State budget. In fact, it has been presented with many measures and is being reinforced, also in the field of expertise, in many areas. This was what was important for us to evaluate at the end of this day. Today we have talked about very important areas such as social protection, health, schools, and it is in this context that we have, in fact, many measures. It was important to look at them in an integrated and complementary way and also to realize that the State budget for 2021 will be fundamental for the government to have, at every moment, the instrument necessary to deal with the evolution of the pandemic, to deal with new measures which, of course, may have to be equalized in order to strengthen employment and protect businesses, if they have to be closed,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ...to cope with workers' incomes, if they have to stay in unworked hours, and to cope with workers' incomes, if they are unemployed. It was all that didn't happen between 2012 and 2014 because, between 2012 and 2014, what we verified was the reverse: cuts... [[PSD protests.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we didn't have a pandemic, we had a much easier situation to anticipate,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... we had a much easier situation to project and clearly had a situation in which the unforeseeable scenario was much smaller. It is in this unforeseeable scenario that the government is, in fact, looking every day at the indicators and the needs to take action. Now, we have no doubt that this State Budget for 2021 is not only what it translates, but also what it allows and will allow to implement, facing every moment and every day of the year of 2021. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-23.u277	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow at 10 a.m. we will be here again, with the following agenda item: from the first item there is the discussion of the rules avoked by the plenary; from the second point there is the vote on the rules avocados; from the third point there is the continuation of the discussion, in the specialty, of the Bill No 61 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Approves the State budget for 2021. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government. The session is closed. [[It was 13 hours and 51 minutes.]]
