ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, let's start our plenary meeting. [[It was 10 hours and 4 minutes.]] Our agenda today is completed at the first point with the debate of the Interpellation to Government No 4 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Centre for the protection, rights and wages of workers in the current economic and social context. I also use it to greet the members of the Government who have just arrived. Good morning, Mrs. Minister and Mrs. State Secretaries. Let us then start the debate, which will be opened by Mrs Diana Ferreira of the CFP Parliamentary Group. There's a lot of noise in the hall. I'm asking the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen standing to take their seats. Mrs Diana Ferreira will begin her intervention as soon as there are conditions of silence. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members : More than 100 000 unemployed registered since 1 March, an average of 1606 new entries per day per unemployment situation in June. In eight days of June collective redundancies already covered 617 workers, more than in the entire month of May. More than 800 000 workers in Layoff. Lauak, who had EUR 4 million in profit, fired more than 250 workers. Preh has accumulated EUR 25 million of profit in the last 3 years and fired 500 workers with precarious links from temporary work enterprises. Hutchinson, whose group obtained more than EUR 3800 million of profit, fired more than 500 workers with precarious links, mostly young people. Super Bock distributed EUR 50 million in dividends in June last year and in June this year announces the dismissal of 10 % of its workers. El Corte Inglés had accumulated profits of EUR 16 billion between 2012 and 2019 and has 1500 workers in layoff. Sumol / Compal, with 40 million euros of profit between 2014 and 2017, has 500 workers in Layoff. FNAC, with EUR 114 million of profit, has 1600 layoff workers. Bosch, with 3,500 workers in Layoff, had more than 94 million euros of accumulated profits between 2016 and 2018. Continental Mabor, with 1500 workers in layoff, had more than 694 million euros of accumulated profits between 2016 and 2018 and now wanted to cut more than 38 % in wages of the 675 workers who make the weekend shifts, but the struggle of the workers stopped that claim from the employer.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u3	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u4	At Douro Azul, with 500 workers in Layoff, its owner, days later, delivers more than 10 million euros to buy part of the Media Capital. The 90% of jobs that were destroyed between March and April were women and 38% were young people up to 24 years old. This brings together the recent news of the risk of the destruction of more than 20 jobs in the SUCH ( Common Use Service of Hospitals ), in Fundão, a public capital company that closes and sends to unemployment more than 20 workers, in the context where we are and in an area within the country with added difficulties of access to employment. It is to these and so many other realities that we refer when we talk about redundancies, wage cuts and the loss of other workers' wages, such as food aid, which is combined with the imposition of vacations, the limitation or impediment in child follow-up, unilateral change of hours and greater deregulation of working hours, failure to comply with standards of hygiene, health and safety at work, and so many other labour and arbitrariness abuses that have intensified strongly in recent months. In fact, if there is something that is also important to withdraw from these last three months, it is the dangerous sign of how far employers are willing to go, scrutinizing workers' rights and taking advantage of the virus as a pretext. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members, the current context of the outbreak exposed in a very clear and cruel manner the oppressive and exploitative nature of capitalism, the harsh reality experienced by millions of workers in our country every day, even before the COVID-19. Workers with long-term contracts, false green receipts, workers at play, at time; workers of temporary or outsourcing enterprises; workers in the experimental period; false stages, false research scholarships; so many workers with precarious links — 1 in 5 — who, responding to permanent needs, have in the instability and uncertainty of their jobs the daily routine of their lives. It is the replacement of workers with rights by workers without rights. Low wages: more than 25 % of workers receiving the national minimum wage and more than 10 % of workers in poverty, impoverishing work. Long working days, intense work rhythms, extraordinary hours not paid. Unregulated hours, overnight informed shifts, weekends with children who do not exist, because the conditions for the articulation of professional, personal and family life are denied, limitation and denial of maternity and paternity rights, blackmails, pressures, reprisals about workers. All of these are realities that have now come to light but which are very old and have causes and responsible: they result from decades of right-wing policy and successive governments of the PS, the PSD and the CDS that, with their political options, have perpetuated them. And if it is necessary to combat the virus, to ensure all responses by the National Health Service, to ensure all conditions of health, hygiene and safety at work to workers, including in their travel to work, to ensure the necessary social protection to those who are in a more fragile situation, and, as was evident at this time, to realize that the precariousness of work is also the precariousness of social protection, half of the unemployed do not have social protection. If this is necessary, we must also act in the fight against other viruses that have been there for decades:...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u5	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u6	... the virus of exploitation, precariousness, low wages, impoverishment and policies that feed them. The CFP has submitted a number of proposals to respond to the current situation, arguing that exceptional times require exceptional measures to protect and strengthen workers' rights and incomes and to ensure social protection. But assuming this immediate battle, we do not abandon a fundamental fight that must be held firmly and uninterruptedly, the struggle for improving the living conditions of Portuguese workers and people, because it is an essential condition for a country that wants to develop, progress and social justice.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u7	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The last four years, as a result of the CFP's intervention for the replacement and conquest of rights and income, have shown that the way to combat injustice and social inequalities, to combat poverty, to improve the lives of families and even to dynamize the internal market is inseparable from the value of wages, reforms, social benefits, defence and strengthening of labour rights. The general value of wages, the increase of the national minimum wage to the €850, not only for reasons of social justice and a fairer distribution of wealth but also for reasons of economic character, since it takes particular importance in increasing the purchasing power of workers, in the dynamisation of the economy and the internal market. The firm fight against precariousness, its eradication, the public sector and the private sector, and the creation of employment with rights, which, in addition to combating unemployment, will also mean the dynamization of national production, combating external dependence and producing here what we were forced to buy out. There is a need to repeal the serious standards of labour law, from the end of the expiry of collective bargaining and the replacement of the most favourable treatment principle. Collective contracting has a structural role in regulating work, is a fundamental instrument for a fairer distribution of wealth, for the consecration of rights won with struggle, and is both a condition for the development and progress of the country. Time is needed to live, with decent hours, putting an end to the deregulation of working hours, eliminating adaptability mechanisms and individual and group hours banks, resting on 25 working days and reducing working hours to 35 working hours for all workers. The value of careers and professions, the replacement of the values paid for additional work, the recognition of the specific plight of night and shift work, should be limited to situations that are technically and socially justified and that the workers of this work system should be duly compensated. The recognition of the employees of the Public Administration, who have been greeted and applauded but to whom careers and progressions have been frozen for more than 10 years, is required, and it is of the utmost justice that these workers, who guarantee the functioning of the public services in our country, have their due wage recovery. As is the maintenance of the proportionality of the single remuneration table ( TRU ), the maintenance of the assigned points, and they must count for the purposes of future changes in the remuneration position, the replacement, creation and valorization of the careers of these workers, but also the right to supplement by insurgency, pesosity and risk and the right to fair repair by accident of service or by professional disease, as it is also necessary to combat, firmly, the continuing precariousness of the Public Administration, ensuring that all workers who respond to permanent needs are able to be effectively linked. It is necessary to combat inequalities and discrimination, to guarantee the rights of men and women, young and old, to all workers, regardless of ethnicity or nationality. And above all this we have intervened, above all this we have fought. We do not lower our arms, our boat is the struggle, the struggle for the lifting of the living conditions of the workers and the Portuguese people. And this is the commitment that the CFP here leaves, with the workers and with the people of our country. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u9	at this stage of the debate, the Government has the floor of the Minister for Labour, Solidarity and Social Security Ana Mendes Godinho.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We live in truly extraordinary moments, a huge requirement for all and who have demanded the mobilization of all in a great collective effort. And so also, together, we have built solutions, we have built extraordinary measures to respond to the challenges and problems we have experienced together, as a society. Problems that are not only ours, are problems worldwide, but for which Portugal has managed to find answers to, above all, the priorities that have mobilized us: to keep employment, to protect workers, to support families, to support the most vulnerable people. We have therefore created, together and in an environment of enormous dialogue and the construction of joint solutions, instruments to meet all these challenges that we have constantly faced and that have already managed to cover 1, 220 million people, in terms of supported support, and 144 000 companies already supported. [[P.S.'s applause.]] With these supports created—and I remember that they were created and implemented in record time, about three months ago we have been constantly trying to respond and adapt the measures to reach all—we have already managed, through social security, to pay EUR 780 million to families, people and businesses. For the implementation of all these mechanisms, the active involvement of all and a collective effort has been fundamental. All the measures implemented have assumed an effort and responsibility shared by all, so that we can reach everyone effectively and with a great capacity to mobilize the social state to respond to those who need it. And the social state showed that it was the one who answered who needed it. We have clearly had a great deal of concern to overcome these difficult times together, taking extraordinary measures, which have had this mobilization of all, with great concern, above all, to keep employment at a time when the economy, for health reasons, had to stop and in social terms, dictated the need of people to stay at home. The simplified layoff we created was an effective measure to maintain, so far, 850 000 jobs, covering 105 000 companies, with payments already made in the amount of EUR 1580 million, always on the assumption that workers' dismissal should be prohibited during the duration of the measures and the prohibition on the distribution of dividends, also to ensure the protection of jobs. Clearly, the simplified layoff was an effective measure in the maintenance of jobs, it was a shock absorber in the evolution of unemployment numbers. We have had a rise in unemployment numbers in a manner controlled precisely by the ability to retain jobs created by the simplified Layoff. We have also implemented other measures for the protection of workers, including the strengthening of the supervisory means of the Working Conditions Authority ( Acts ), which currently has the largest number of labour inspectors since its establishment, and also meeting the ratios of the International Labour Organisation. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In two months, we reinforced ACT with 188 inspectors, a total of 493 inspectors. Since March, the ACT carried out 8200 inspection actions, covering 188 000 workers, and applied 1415 news and warning cars for detected infringements. In the last month, the ACT carried out joint actions dedicated to the supervision of the layoff, precisely to detect irregular or abusive situations of the use of the simplified layoff mechanism, together with the Social Security Institute, having already carried out 2400 inspection actions, with the adoption of 1350 inspection processes only dedicated to irregular situations within the simplified layoff, and having detected situations of undeclared workers and workers who were working and identified as being in layoff situation. We are being effective in controlling abusive situations that did not have the opportunity to resort to layoff and, therefore, in strengthening protection for workers here too. The Act has also developed integrated actions to promote safety and health at work, together with the social partners. The most recent action was carried out in the field of civil construction, together with partners representatives of workers, representatives of employers, and also with the Institute of Social Security and with the Directorate-General for Health ( DGS ). Integrated actions are thus guaranteed to examine not only the safety and health issues in the work of shipyards but also the social situation of workers, to ensure that no one is excluded from these mechanisms that we have created, and to ensure that people are covered by all social support measures.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u11	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u12	We have also done with all of us the implementation of several extraordinary measures, not only for the maintenance of employment but also for support for families. For example, support for families created during the suspension of present-day educational activities has already covered 182 000 people; banking moratoriums; the support mechanism for self-employed workers, which has already covered 165 000 independent workers with already paid support; the reduction to half of the guarantee period of social unemployment benefit; the extension of minimum social benefits, which already cover 40 000 people; and the various measures to protect workers in need of prophylactic isolation or health protection. We have also implemented several measures to support the social sector and the most vulnerable populations, from then on, strengthening home support, strengthening human resources in the institutions of the social sector and strengthening the integrated programme for the prevention of VOCID-19 in homes and day care. We are currently at the stabilisation stage. We all had to implement emergency measures together, to respond to an emergency situation, and at the moment we are also building the next moments together. We have approved the Economic and Social Stabilization Programme, which supports its financing the Supplementary Budget, which is currently under discussion in this House, and above all as major objectives the maintenance of employment, the stabilization and recovery of workers' income and the support of the most vulnerable people. Yesterday, the new stabilization supplement dedicated to workers who are in simplified layoffs and who have lost income, which can receive up to two minimum wages, was approved. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This supplement, created for the first time, is an extraordinary complement, which will be paid, in July, directly to the workers, being a benefit that will range from €100 to €351, due to the loss of workers' income, being evaluated the month in which they lost more to safeguard the loss of income. Also yesterday was approved the Extraordinary Financial Incentive to Support the Standardization of Business Activity, to support the maintenance of employment. Thus, companies may choose between two mechanisms to have liquidity, to maintain jobs and to maintain wages, in exchange for the prohibition of redundancies. In the case of the option for incentive with the two minimum wages, in return they are committed to maintaining the level of employment of companies over the next six months. It is a joint commitment: financial support in exchange for the maintenance of the level of employment, of all workers, in the companies covered in the next six months, with the great concern, once again, of maintaining and protecting workers' incomes and maintaining employment on the part of companies. This is alongside the programmes we are developing and strengthening to respond to the increase in unemployment that has been focused, specifically on support for young employment and training, for the inclusion of everyone in the labour market and response to all those who have been unprotected. There are also other social measures which we are regulating and which will be approved next week, namely 13. the month of family allowance, the extraordinary measure dedicated to self-employed workers and workers without social protection, so that they all have an IAS (indicator of social support) in the next six months — until the end of December — so that they are all protected by the system, in exchange for inclusion in the system.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u13	Mrs. Minister, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u14	Mr President, I wanted to finish by saying that we have succeeded together and together we will continue to achieve it. We have had a great demand and it is necessary to continue this joint mobilization, motivated by the inclusion of all, by the valorization of all,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u15	Madam Minister, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u16	I just wanted to say that our fight is a common struggle. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u17	We are thus moving to the stage of discussion. Mr Diana Ferreira, the Bureau records the registration of three Mrs. Members to make requests for clarification. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u18	Mr President, I will answer together.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u19	So you have the floor to ask for clarification, Mrs Olga Silvestre of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u20	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members, this is the time to act rather than wait for the miracle of Brussels. The PSD is, as always, defending the rights of workers, so that everyone has room for their realization. Because of the pandemic, unemployment has increased exponentially and enormous challenges are looming. To that end, it is important to prepare for the future and put forward a new paradigm of work, which goes through the creation of new skills, by favouring a strong commitment in vocational training, by promoting competitiveness, the skilled workforce, and by favouring the creation of sustainable and value-added jobs. Betting in vocational education will also be wagered in the future, but we are disappointed, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! — there are no workers, no good wages or jobs if there are no solid and robust companies that can pay them. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u21	The new employment paradigm will always go through a vision of cooperation between the various actors and always—but even always! — social consultation. [[Protests by PCP MP Bruno Dias.]] Does Mrs Diana Ferreira agree with the PSD's position that any legislative changes in labour matters are always assessed and analyzed in social consultation? The Act assumes a role as a guarantor of workers' rights, as it is essential both from a pedagogical perspective and from a perspective. But for five years now they have supported, either declared or shamefully, the Government and, as far as the Act is concerned, the only strengthening of human resources that it had — and which it was promised since Vieira da Silva — — was now in May, with about 80 trainees. Do you think enough, Mrs Diana Ferreira? As regards social security, how does the CFP intend to operate it in time and with effectiveness in the allocation of support, particularly to workers in layoffs? In addition to the praise that the Minister came to the Assembly of the Republic, in favour of herself and her Ministry, in the discussion of the Supplementary Budget, what do we have? We have revised diplomas several times, due to lack of scope and legal framework — which causes unnecessary allocations to economic operators — we have support paid late and, worse, we have requests for the return of support granted. The PSD Parliamentary Group has done everything in its power to help the government fulfil its obligation: to govern, but the government governs in government. Do you think, Mrs Diana Ferreira, that the government and its institutions have been the guarantor of workers' rights? Will the CFP continue to support the government behind the scenes and criticize it on stage? [[Meanwhile, Vice President Fernando Negrão took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u22	Mrs. Deputy, be careful with time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u23	I will finish, Mr. President. The PSD will continue to be faithful to its principles: defending social dialogue, respect for the legality and defence of the social state. [[Protests from PCP MP Paula Santos.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u24	Mrs. Deputy, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u25	I'm done, Mr. President. Thank you for your tolerance. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u26	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, taking up the work, I announce that we already have a quorum. You now have the floor, too, to ask for clarification, Mr Fernando José.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u27	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Diana Ferreira, I begin by greeting the Portuguese Communist Party on the issue that brings here today, an important issue. The facts brought here, although not the rule, being an exception in the Portuguese labour landscape, are worrying. But the fact is that, in 10 minutes of intervention, the honourable Member has been unable to find anything positive about what has been done in recent years. In the field of labour rights, we have gone along a path of repossession of rights, of combating the scourge of work precariousness, of creating effective better conditions and of greater stability for Portuguese workers. More and better it can still be done, that is what we agree on, and that is what we are committed to. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Indeed, there is a path that we continue to pursue and that has not come to an end. But does the honourable Member not agree that much has been done on this path? Do you not agree that the juslaboral framework and the world of work in Portugal are, today, different, and for better, from what they were in 2015, when the right left power in Portugal? [[P.S.'s applause.]] And does the honourable Member not recognise that, even in this context, the Government has not ceased to create extraordinary support measures for workers, families and businesses, such measures which are pragmatic, time-consuming and which, at present, minimize the impact of this crisis? Yes, Madam Member, we agree that we can do more and better, but much has already been done. It has been done and you will have to agree on it, Mrs. The Portuguese know and recognize the assertiveness of the Socialist Party's Government's measures and the enormous effort that has been made so far and cannot be extinguished. Madam Member, recent changes to labour legislation are a response to combating precariousness, represent an appreciation of collective bargaining and reflect more rights and better conditions for workers. Legislative stability is currently expected in the light of recent amendments to the Labour Code. The increase in the minimum wage to €635 — an increase of 26 % in 5 years — and the commitment to maintain the pace of stability, to reach €750, an increase of 49 % in 8 years, is aimed at improving the lives of Portuguese and increasing the income available to families. This, yes, is wage valuation. Yes, Mrs. Member, we must continue to do more and better. That is the way, that is the compromise we reiterate. So it was in the past, so it is in the present and so it will be in the future. This is how the Supplementary Budget reflects this commitment not to leave anyone behind and to keep people at the centre of political action. The simplified layoff, the inspection of the ACT, the dozens of measures to support workers, families and businesses, telework, the regime that will have to be regulated and seen as one of the driving springs of reconciliation between family life and work are evidence of pragmatic measures to protect jobs and workers' incomes.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u28	Sir, I call your attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u29	I shall finish, Mr President, Mrs Deputy, by saying that it can be done more and more. That is what we are committed to, but at this new and difficult stage of our lives, the measures so far decreed reflect the government's options and political action. It was through this path that we started our journey and it is on this path that we will continue, with assertivity, with pragmatism and leaving no one behind. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u30	You now have the floor for a request for clarification, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u31	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, of course, began by welcoming the CFP, bringing this important debate to the Assembly of the Republic. It seems to us that, indeed, there is still a path to be made in the protection of workers, in the fight against precariousness and also in support of companies, because, without such support, we will hardly achieve the maintenance of jobs and the resumption of the economy that we all want. In addition to those concerns that have already been discussed here, there is one particular issue that we cannot stop bringing to this discussion and we would also like to realize: what is the CFP's position in this regard? This question concerns the rights of public service workers, who are repeatedly disrespected and forgotten not only by this government but also, often, by an attempt to turn private sector workers against public service workers. This disrespect, for us, is visible not only in maintaining a logic of career regulation « the rule and framework », which has been very peculiar to the governments that have alternated in power but mainly in wage issues. Despite the speech of the PS, in particular, that it would turn to the page of austerity, what we have seen in this and the previous legislatures, are true crumbs for workers of the state and public service, which do not compensate for the losses of austerity times. in this sense, in the past legislature, there was no money because we had to let the « Ronaldo das Finanzas » be shining in Brussels. In the last budget, there was no money because we had to have a budget surplus. [[PSD Member Protest Duarte Marques.]] We already know that there will be no money because of the financial impact of the health crisis. It is clear that in the previous legislation, in fact, there was an increase in the basic remuneration of public service workers, but this increase was only 2, 8 %, although between 2009 and 2019 the purchasing power of workers has, on average, decreased 7, 4 %, an element which we cannot obviously disregard. For public service workers, the page of austerity has not only been turned as we fear, too, that it can be deepened in the coming days. That is why the first question we would like to leave the CFP is whether they do not think the government should reverse this loss of purchasing power with relevant wage increases and with the review of the single wage table, and not only with migalhas, as we have seen so far. The other question concerns SIADAP ( Integrated Performance Assessment System in Public Administration ). We well know that so far, the objectives have been set and career progression has been quite tied to this regime. in this sense, the NAP has proposed twice that there be an extraordinary review of the objectives set by each service, in order to be more fair. We would like to ask the CFP if you do not think this review is necessary, too, so that no further damage will be done to the workers of the Public Administration. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u32	In reply, I give the floor to Mrs Diana Ferreira of the PCP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u33	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I am grateful for the questions put by Mrs Olga Silvestre, Mr Fernando José and Mrs Inês de Sousa Real. Mrs Olga Silvestre, it would be funny for the PSD to talk about workers' rights if its action in the government with the CDS had not been a tragic action in the lives of workers. [[Well remembered!]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u34	Even today the workers feel in their pockets your political options, during the four years of your governance! [[PCP applause.]] As far as labour legislation, approval and discussion of laws are concerned, this House of the Republic has all the legitimacy to make changes to labour legislation which it understands.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u35	Nobody says otherwise!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u36	But there are more, Mrs. Deputies. Let me tell you that the strengthening of workers' rights will be as strong as the stronger your struggle will be. It was the struggle of the workers that guaranteed them a set of rights that we see today reflected in various legal documents and will also be the struggle of those workers who will advance their rights, and thus we will have the opportunity, in the future, to guarantee and strengthen the rights of workers. Madam Member, on the questions of social security workers and on the need for greater speed in social security responses, the CFP has mentioned this several times, but does not want the PSD to escape the responsibilities that it must have removed more than 3000 workers from social security in the period when it was in government. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u37	What about PCP's responsibilities? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u38	The PSD does not want to escape these responsibilities because today if social security has fewer workers, if the ACT does not have enough workers, they can also thank the PSD and the CDS for the period they were in government. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u39	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u40	Mr Fernando José, the exploitation felt every day by millions of workers in our country is not a new reality. The outbreak and context in which we live is a very specific context, but the specific realities of low wages and precariousness have been there for several years, Mr Deputies! That is the reality that we must not forget and that we must fight deeply. It was precisely in this sense that the CFP held this debate. We recognize that, in the exceptional time we live, exceptional measures and emergency responses are indeed needed, but let us not forget that we cannot escape the reality of precariousness and low wages and that the general value of wages is absolutely fundamental. The increase in national minimum wage for the €850 is an emergency in the lives of workers, so that they have better living conditions, so that they can consume on the internal market, boost the economy and guarantee companies the necessary consumption, so that they will continue to work. That is also what we are talking about, Mr President. There was indeed a period of replacement of rights and incomes that the CFP values, a period that had a very significant intervention and insistence by the CFP. But within the framework of labour law, Mr President, the amendment which the last Government made in relation to the experimental period was aimed at the social deprotection of thousands of workers who were currently in the experimental period had no access to any social protection and were fired one day at the other on the pretext of the virus.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u41	And it was also the PSD's fault!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u42	It was the change that the PS wanted to make to the labour legislation that aggravated the precariousness of these workers. Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, in relation to the employees of the Public Administration, the CFP has had a very continuous intervention...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u43	What about the precarious ones? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u44	... and very strong on defending the rights of employees of the Public Administration. It is urgent that you value your salary, yes. Your recognition is urgent. You don't have enough palms, you don't have enough pretty words. It is necessary to create and restore careers in the Public Administration, to value these workers, to value their wages. For more than 10 years, they had their lives suspended, in deep injustice. The CFP has intervened on this and, therefore, we also follow this need. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u45	Mrs. Minister of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security, 11 Members signed up to ask for clarifications. The Minister informed the Bureau that she would respond first to a six-question block and then to a second five-question block. I now give the floor to Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP to make the first request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u46	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, if there has been something that has shown us that, in fact, we are not all on the same boat, because, for some, there have been benefits and the continuation of the maintenance of profits and for others, there have been abuses, exploitation and cuts in their incomes. But we can also draw more lessons, and one of them is that work assumes a centrality in our society. We have seen how important work is for our lives, in guaranteeing essential services. The value of work and workers is a condition for development and progress. There is no civil advancement without strengthening the rights and income of workers. We cannot continue to accept that, in many workplaces, the law of the jungle prevails. Even recently, the pretext of the outbreak was numerous companies that imposed on workers the enjoyment of forced holidays, the increase of working hours, the suspension of their employment contracts and cuts in incomes. There must be an effective intervention by the Working Conditions Authority. This is the first question I would like to ask you: will you or will you not follow a proposal that we have defended in the Assembly of the Republic to ensure that the Act has an executive force in its sentencing decisions and that it can intervene immediately so that these situations do not continue to take place? But there must also be a repeal of the serious labour legislation which has led to increased exploitation, forced labour imposition, facilitation of layoffs, increased precarious labour relations and the lapse of collective bargaining. Mrs. Minister, the value of work and workers is due to changes in labour law in order to protect the most fragile part, the worker. That is why we ask you: is the government available to put an end to the expiry of the collective contract and to restore the most favourable treatment to the worker? Is the Government available to put an end to the time deregulation instruments, repealing adaptability schemes and hourly banks? The development of science and technology must be put at the service of workers' rights and the defense of their interests and not at the service of the appropriation of greater wealth by the capital. So will the government reduce the working hours of all workers, the public sector and the private sector by 35 hours? Is the Government available to strengthen the rights of shift and night workers, considering the pelvis associated with the provision of these work schemes? Is it available to guarantee 25 days' holiday, to restore the payment of the amounts in the supplementary work provision and to restore the amounts in the redundancies? These are fundamental issues that require a clear definition of the government on which it is to be chosen. The CFP assumes the option of defending workers' rights. And what choice does the government make? Will you choose to defend the rights of workers or will you continue to benefit from capital at the expense of the exploitation of those who work? [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u47	Mr José Soeiro, from the Left Block, has the floor for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u48	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. State Secretaries, after months waiting for a response from social security, thousands of workers to green receipts started yesterday, three months after requiring urgent support, receiving responses to requests that were under consideration and many of them are being denied. Social security responses are, in fact, laconic: « non-exclusive self-employed person » or « do not meet the conditions of support ». Those who waited so many months for an answer deserved a little more explanation, a little more information on the reasons for the indifference of a support from which it often depends to survive. Is it true that the scope governing support speaks of self-employed workers, but that means, for example, that someone who has had a single employment contract nine months ago no longer has the right to support? In fact, he no longer has any support, because he has no support as a worker on behalf of others, because in the nine months that followed, he was an independent worker, nor does he have support as an independent worker, because nine months ago he had the contract on behalf of another. Someone who, for example, suspended the activity six months ago and then took it back is also without support? Mr Minister, with regard to the extraordinary support that has been created, how many independent workers are having their requests rejected, and why are they being refused? Do you think it makes sense to exclude, for example, these two cases which I mentioned from extraordinary support? Is this not contradictory about the idea of leaving no one behind? These examples I gave would also be covered by extraordinary support, by the grant, which the Left Block proposed and apparently are being excluded from government support. In fact, it's not just apparently because they received that information yesterday. Secondly, I wanted to talk about the layoff. The Labour Code explicitly states that workers in layoff, with contract suspension or time reduction, maintain « social rights or social security benefits and their basis of calculation ». There have been reports of situations, either in relation to the number of days, or in relation to the value of the salary, in which the social security records in the layoff period are not being made by that value of the integral wage but by the value of the pay compensation, or will not be being accounted for every day. Mrs. Minister, is this possible? Thirdly, on a question relating to the direct custody of Mr. Minister and Mr. Secretary of State sitting next to him, Mr. Secretary of State Miguel Cabrita, wanted to talk about the trainers of the IEFP (Instituto do Emprego e Formation Professional). Yesterday, it was told to the IEFP trainers to false green receipts that were not integrated in the PREVPAP ( Programme for the Extraordinary Regularization of Precarious Links in Public Administration ), which are about 700, that their false green receipts would be renewed by the end of the year. On several occasions, the Minister was told by her predecessor and the Secretary of State who maintains that even workers who were not considered permanent needs under PREVPAP and who were not regularized under PREVPAP would no longer be framed by false green receipts. Yesterday, they were told that they would continue to be framed, I do not know until, for false green receipts. Mr Minister, Mr Secretary of State, how long will the State continue to set this bad example at the Institute of Employment and Vocational Training? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u49	Mr Eduardo Teixeira, from the PSD, has the floor for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u50	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Ladies and gentlemen, this is indeed a time of action and it is urgent. It is time for action because we have a fierce fight in front of us, a fight to stop the inequalities that are accentuated, a fight to stop the dismissals and wage cuts that grow exponentially and a fight to minimize the difficulties of our entrepreneurs, who have felt the lack of protection and support of the state. Thus, it is time to give effective public responses to this pandemic crisis, which has affected our country very much, in support of families, in the protection of jobs and in the incomes of our workers. In employment today, the new employment registers of unemployed by March already total about 180 000 Portuguese — 102 000 in variation and 180 000 in registration — in a total of almost 400 000 unemployed, and the rate of enrolment increases on an average of almost 700 new cases each June, which accelerates, and much, in relation to the month of May. It's and it's going to be exponential growth. After listening to the Portuguese Communist Party, which addressed today's debate, we see that concerns are very common, because, in the short term, it is necessary to ensure income and work for Portuguese, in the search for, in the medium term, we will ensure stability and the reduction of precariousness, with job creation and wage recovery. Therefore, the work needed to resume normal economic activity is huge and this is the time when responses are required, responses to families, people and businesses. Mrs. Minister, out there almost everyone complains that the support takes and does not arrive to cope with the liquidity crisis and the progressive resumption of the activity and that only part of the 1 350 000 workers for whom the simplified layoff has been requested have benefited from it. What has failed for some 500 000 Portuguese have not yet benefited from this measure? It's half a million Portuguese waiting for support and no layoff. The government has failed in support and in time, but it cannot fail any more and we hope that it will be aware that many tens of thousands of jobs have disappeared because of lack of protection, lack of operationalization and lack of social and economic responses. As regards the rights of workers, when will one of the main problems that has occurred during the period of confinement be revisited with the social partners because there is no proper regulation for telework? As telework is an important tool to be taken into account in the future, however, it lacks means to ascertain the working time done in an additional way, which is often shielded from time exemptions, whose concepts should be based on flexibility and not on a file to increase work in a non-paid way. Mr Minister, what measures do you plan to overcome this injustice, which does much penalize families in reconciling their relations and lives? I finish as I started: it's time to act, it's time for answers to protect and support workers and our companies. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u51	You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u52	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister of Labour, first of all, we have obviously started by welcoming her for the measures that have been implemented, not only recognizing her urgency but also the relevance of them so that no one would be left behind. However, there are some sectors that continue outside, not doing justice to the mantra recently repeated, once and again, by all of us, and I give some examples: from informal workers, where the love of the Holy House is included, to the young students and trainees, who also have no support, especially at the level of the layoff, as well as to the precarious ones. in this sense, in view of the significant impacts of the current employment context, this situation has mainly affected the younger ones—and this is the example we would like to bring today—, which often have precarious links and are therefore the first to be affected by rising unemployment. The data available here indicate precisely this and the number of young people making use of the unemployment allowance that was disbursed in April. What we want, Mrs Minister, is to see that the ranks of unemployment do not increase and that we continue to have in our country contributors with stable working relationships, rather than creating greater dependence and an increase in situations of poverty and social precariousness. in this sense, we would like to know what measures the government intends to take with regard to these young people who are in a precarious situation or those who are as trainees, with jobs that do not allow them access to layoffs, for example. As part of the extension of the layoff regime and its revision, we also wanted to know whether to consider applying a clause such as that for contracts without end to precarious workers in the experimental period or trainees. Nor can we mention another issue relating to unemployment, with regard to the goals of equality and the fight against social asymmetries. Indeed, the fight against poverty and inequality must continue. Poverty and inequality have been accentuated by this health crisis and this is an example of the news that every day women have been most affected by this crisis. in this sense, Mrs. Minister, we would like to realize that strategies are yours to consider putting in place to ensure that no one stays behind, starting with the most vulnerable, in weaker socio-economic situation, but also those that on the basis of gender, age or any other condition can now be affected by this crisis.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u53	Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u54	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Minister of Labour, as a result of several decades of options that have been put forward in low-wage policies and that have sought to institutionalize precariousness as a rule in labour relations, today we have a much worse situation in which large companies, taking advantage of the pandemic, have not wasted time to substantially deepen the exploitation of those who work, seeking to reduce people to mere disposable parts, to use and throw away, or to simple machines that connect and shut down as appropriate to employers. The result is in sight of all. In addition, on the day when the European Anti-Poverty Network alerts, it should be borne in mind that the problem of poverty, which has gained a very worrying dimension of this pandemic, is not alien to these abuses by large companies, low-wage policies and work insecurity that continues to persist around us and tends to be seen as a normal thing, which is even more worrisome. The reports of these abuses do not stop coming and allow us to make a faithful reading of what is happening in the country, with thousands of workers experiencing truly dramatic situations. When we talk about workers with precarious links, then the scenario is even worse. And the worst of all is that many of these companies are receiving state support, which makes the scenario even more revolting. Madam Minister, the pandemic cannot be seen as an opportunity to boost profits at the expense of the exploitation of those who work and much less may hinder the State from exercising its function to guarantee the rights of those who work and, in this respect, the Working Conditions Authority has a absolutely decisive role. The Working Conditions Authority must be seen as a fundamental instrument in order for the State to fulfil its function to guarantee the rights of its employees and also respect for legal standards. For this reason, Mrs Minister, I have two questions to ask you about the Working Conditions Authority. The first is to know whether the ACT is considered to be equipped with sufficient technical and human resources to properly develop its tasks. The second question is whether you can provide us with information on the number of cases opened in this period relating to legal infringements or violations of the law by employers who have received State support. Since, from the general point of view, the Minister has already mentioned this when I spoke on the rostrum, I would like to ask how many cases have been opened for abuse and violation of the law by companies that have received State public support.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u55	Mr. João Almeida has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u56	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. State Secretaries, as we know, at the level of employment, the pandemic crisis brought a substantial worsening of the circumstances and this coincided with a structural evolution that was already negative. In March, the unemployment benefit coverage rate, i.e. the number of people who are unemployed and receive social support, dropped five percentage points, something that had not happened since 2010. In other words, the unemployed who receive social support went from 56 % to 51 %. However, this percentage has come down again and the problem we have is that half of the unemployed do not have social support, which requires extraordinary social measures. from the point of view of the CDS, one of these extraordinary measures, which in fact comes following a measure that the Government has already taken, is to reduce to half the guarantee period of unemployment benefit. The government did so for the social unemployment benefit and the CDS presented a project for this to be done for unemployment benefits, for cessation of activity and also for cessation of professional activity, that is, in order to support unemployed, self-employed workers who have been without activity and partners-managers who have been without their business. In the debate on the amending budget last Wednesday, the Minister for Finance said that the Government had already legislated it. We find no evidence of this statement which Mr Minister did in Parliament, but certainly something said at such an important time, at the premiere of Mr Minister for Finance in a parliamentary debate, will not have been said in vain. So the question that I am asking is the following: when did this happen and with what legislative document? If, eventually, it has been a statement of intention by the Minister who has not yet been implemented, I would like to say to the Government that the draft law of the CDS is under discussion in the specialty. The only party that voted against was the Socialist Party and therefore requested the good offices of the Minister so that the words of Mr.Minister of Finance and the Socialist Party could quickly complete the specialization process of the CDS bill so that together—as the Government likes to invoke—we can effectively help those who need it.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u57	To respond to this set of requests for clarification, you have the floor of Mr. Minister of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u58	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Paula Santos, could not agree more on the role of work, the value of work and workers. I wasn't an inspector at work! So I take this as a permanent matrix on my mission. Having clearly the concern to ensure that during these extraordinary and exceptional times the rights of workers are also protected and safeguarded, in addition to the measures we have implemented to ensure the protection of employment and wages, we have already had great concern to strengthen and accelerate the inspection capacity of the ACT. This, in the context of human resources, at the level of the ACT inspectors, who in the last two months had a reinforcement of 188 inspectors either through the conclusion of the external tender that was open, either through the passage of trainee inspectors to inspectors in the career, within the framework of the internal competition, or through the mobilization and request of inspectors of other inspections to strengthen the inspection capacity. As I said recently, ACT currently has the largest number of inspectors it has ever had, 493 inspectors, in line with the International Labour Organization's ratios. I use to point out that we also created an executive special mechanism, exactly to give power to the ACT, to have a special instrument for identifying situations where there were redundancies that violated the Labour Code procedures and to have the company's immediate reporting capacity, with executive force, to correct the situation. To date, within the framework of this new power and strengthened instrument that has been created, the Act has already done so in 50 situations of dismissals considered unlawful for failing to comply with the rules of the Labour Code. Regarding the issue of the dynamization of collective bargaining, history shows that it is not the prohibition of expiry that does so. Our total commitment is to dynamize and strengthen social dialogue in the best way possible, through all instruments that we have and that are effective. It is in this sense that we have worked and, indeed, it is in this sense that the involvement of all social partners and social dialogue, at all times, has been one of our permanent ways of acting, with the obvious advantages of social dialogue capacity and of finding measures together to be able to respond to the various dimensions of the problems that have arisen. Mr José Soeiro, on the question of self-employed people, so far we have 164,000 self-employed and self-employed members with paid support and the values given to self-employed workers already exceed EUR 100 million. So the number I have here, I think last week, is EUR 104 million already paid under this extraordinary measure of support for self-employed people, but I am always available to see concrete cases that have arisen. I admit that the issue that may be emerging relates to the fact that some workers may still have activated their situation as workers on behalf of others in social security. It is a question of correcting the situation. I think what has become evident in recent times is that none of us are used to using social security as frequently as possible and there are many situations that are not updated, even in relation to the situation of workers, in direct social security itself. Here too I leave my request to the workers to update their data so as to ensure that they do not generate inconsistencies in the system. In fact, support for self-employed people is for those who do not necessarily have another source of income, because it is an extraordinary support and the objective is that. It may happen that workers still have the open and updated registration as workers on behalf of others and therefore it is necessary to check whether this is the situation. We need to see all situations in particular and I am always available to do so, but I also call for everyone to be aware of the need to have the data updated in direct social security. In fact, it is an appeal that I leave to everyone, also with regard to the stabilization supplement, which will be paid directly to the workers. For this payment to be made by bank transfer and as quickly as possible, to take place in July, it is essential for workers to have their data updated online in their direct social security account, including the IBAN ( International Bank Account Number ). I call for the mobilization of all workers to have all the data updated. It often happens that they do not have them and the system lapses also result from this situation. But I want to say, once again, that I am completely available to see concrete situations and, from then on, to see if there is a different problem. Regarding the issue of IEFP trainers, as you know, there was a process of regularization within the framework of PREVPAP for these workers. Competitions have been opened that provide 507 jobs for their integration, these have been filled with 467 candidates, so far. What has been sought to safeguard, according to the situation that has pointed out to me — I admit that this is the situation, but we can verify — throughout the pandemic period, it is that people did not cease to have incomes, even those who had conditions of service, so that no one would be protected.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u59	Mrs. Minister, I call your attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u60	I'm going to speed up, Mr. President. Mr. Eduardo Teixeira, with regard to unemployment, wanted to share the numbers of the registered members of the IEFP, to understand also the evolution of what has happened and the role and capacity that the simplified layoff has had as a shock absorber of the evolution of unemployment figures. Unemployment figures have increased and clearly one of our concerns and priorities is to ensure that we have instruments that are more effective from the point of view of retention and the ability to maintain jobs and, on the one hand, the absorption of new unemployed under the ATIvar.PT programme, both at the level of training and at the level of support for recruitment. As for the evolution of numbers in employment centres in March we had 321,000 people — we are talking about updated numbers on the continent — in April we had 368 000 and in May we had 384 000. We felt there was a growth in April, but in May there was already some capacity for there to be no such significant growth. I recall that in December 2015 for example, the number of registered members in the PSI was 521 000. Therefore, our main objective is that it does not happen what happened in the previous crisis. It is in this sense that we are all working through these measures that we have implemented quickly to maintain jobs.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u61	Mrs. Minister, you are well beyond your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u62	So, Mr President, next round I will complete the answers to the questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u63	Returning to the requests for clarification by the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen, I give the floor to Mr. André Ventura, from arrive. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u64	Mr President, Madam Minister, first of all, I would like to ask whether the errors of social security which the Order of Auditors had pointed out and which had given rise to several delays in April and May are or are not corrected, i.e. whether or not they have already been regularized. In addition to this and in addition to the bizarre support of €219, the Ombudsman's Office pointed out several and serious computer problems to his Ministry this week, accusing him and noting that delays, either in Layoff to entrepreneurs or to ordinary citizens in social support, are seriously concerned with these computer failures. It was an information from the Ombudsman's Office and he wanted to know, for his part, what failures are these and what we are doing to minimize them. Finally, I'd like to question the tests. It was reported that the Infarmed (National Medicines and Health Products Authority) had banned or, better, had not certified about 50 000 tests and that these tests were still used in homes and day care centers. However, being the competent body in Infarmed in Portugal for the certification of these equipment, it is strange that they have been used as scapegoats of non-certified tests the homes and day care centers. At least it has been reported in various media—there is news in the observer newspaper and in the Economic Journal on this subject—so it was agreed that it would give an explanation.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u65	I now give the floor to Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u66	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister, I would like to ask a question about the young labour market, because this crisis has eliminated and unfortunately will still eliminate many jobs, but in time we must also open opportunities in a number of economic sectors. To take advantage of these opportunities, we need to have a much more agile and much more dynamic economy, much less delays and much less bureaucracy. Without this, it will not be possible to create jobs, especially for young people. Many of these young people are already unemployed as a result of this crisis, they have already seen their wages reduced and even those who continue to be employed have wage levels that really should embarrass us all. These young people always think about emigration, not because someone invites them, but because, implicitly, they are telling them that there are places in Europe with a much lower tax rate than our own, which is not difficult because we have the second highest rate of tax effort in the euro area. What I would like to see the Minister respond to young Portuguese is why the PS Government does not intend to approve what we will propose again in the context of Supplementary Budget, which is a reduction in the IRS ( income tax of natural persons) for young people in the first years of employment, a measure that will not have a budgetary impact less than a quarter of the value that the Government is preparing to bury in the TAP ( Portuguese Air Transport ), above all with the assumption that it will be EUR 1200 million lost.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u67	I give the floor to Mrs Vera Silver from the PCP. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u68	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister, job insecurity is the social scourge that has shifted from exception to rule in recent decades, whether in the public sector or in private, it is uncertainty in employment and uncertainty in the lives of workers. More than 1 million workers in Portugal have precarious links, even taking up permanent positions and being accurate every day at work, receiving, on average, less than 30 to 40 % wages than a worker with an effective bond. It was not by chance that workers with rights for workers without rights began to be replaced. This practice was fostered by successive changes to the labour legislation of successive PS governments, PSD and CDS. The latest changes to the Labour Code, made by the PS, further aggravated the precariousness, damaging the development of the country and condemning workers to exploitation and impoverishment. Let us speak of specific examples, Mrs. Minister. In the Public Administration, thousands of workers integrated in mission structures have nothing, such as those of the EMEPC ( Mission Structure for the Extension of the Continental Platform ), for more than 15 years in precarious situations, and as the trainers of the IEFP and the workers of the RTP ( Portuguese Radiotelevision ) who have not been integrated by PREVPAP but who respond to permanent needs. In the call centres such as Fidelity, Évora and Lisbon, MEO, EDP, where the employer refuses to integrate these workers into the business frameworks and to apply the collective bargaining of the sectors, a brutal exploitation is promoted through irregular schedules, intense working rhythms, without payment of extraordinary hours. These workers have serious difficulties in the articulation between personal, family and professional life. In the industry, there are thousands of workers with precarious ties who suffer brutal runoffs, such as in Tyco, in Évora, in Gestapo, in New Sales, or in Hutchinson, in Portalegre and in Porto, among many others throughout the country. The epidemic outbreak further highlighted the problems of precariousness, leaving workers more exposed and vulnerable. There are multiple cases of workers whose precarious contracts have not been renewed, of workers whose low wages have suffered a blow and they do not come to the expense. Workers in the hotel and restaurant sectors, severely affected by the health crisis, suffer successive abuses to their rights, such as the imposition of holidays, being pushed into the layoff with the consequent loss of wages, and thousands of other workers with precarious links were fired. They are also examples of cultural workers, who are paying a high bill due to cancellations, and this reality of precariousness and uncertainty has been experienced for years. Science and research workers continue with scholarships and false green receipts, when they have been working in the same functions for years. Ms. Minister, the current context has clearly shown that precariousness at work is also the precariousness of social protection. It is necessary and urgent to promote employment stability by fulfilling and ensuring that the right to work and job security provided for in the Constitution is met, ensuring that a permanent job must always correspond to an effective link. It is urgent and necessary to adopt a national plan to combat precariousness, as the CFP advocates. The fight against precariousness is made of concrete measures, therefore, Minister, what it is important to know is what measures the Government will take to eradicate precariousness in the private sector, which is a stain that has spread, and in the public sector, in particular by concluding PREVPAP and linking all workers who respond to permanent needs.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u69	Mrs Isabel Pires of the Left Block has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u70	Mr President, Madam Minister, I would like to ask some questions which seem relevant to us at the moment of the debate. We know that, at this stage in which we are working, we are talking about measures for the future. The Government has often talked about support for job maintenance and, still today, the Minister mentioned exactly some of these matters, but it was necessary not to leave anyone behind until this time. I wonder about those who have been fired, hundreds and thousands, by companies that, soon after these dismissals, have resorted to the layoff mechanism, for example. We are talking about thousands of workers who, at the moment, see themselves in a very complicated state of unemployment and whose company, soon thereafter, resorted to layoff. In these cases, what is the Government's response? In some cases, we are talking about large companies—just look at what the TAP has done—and we also talk about many workers who may still suffer from this consequence throughout the year. There is another important issue that has to do with wage cuts imposed on workers through layoff. I would like to ask you a question about a sector of activity which is very relevant for two specific reasons, and it is a paradigmatic case of how this layoff mechanism can have negative consequences: the public transport sector, particularly rail transport. And why is it paradigmatic? Because, at a time of defination, when more people necessarily need to use these transports, it should also be logical for these companies to resume their frequencies and their activities and, as a result, to end this wage cut that is currently inflicting hundreds of workers. To add to this, we talk, in most cases, of companies that receive public money because they also have obligations of contract and public service in the area of mobility—we speak of groups like Baraqueiro who, until we see, do not know that they have financial difficulties—but at the same time that they are causing wage cuts to hundreds of workers, are causing damage to users who still do not have the necessary frequencies and services, and difficulties can also be generated from the point of view of the health response that needs to be given. Being a sector that, in addition to employing thousands of workers who are currently in very difficult situations, has not only a fundamental role in the health response that needs to be given at a time of defination, but also public obligations and that it receives public money, either through the PART(Programme of Support for Tariff Reduction in Public Transport) is through other mechanisms, such as the Layoff, to exercise its activity, how will the Government at this time look at this situation of companies that are in Layoff—but that clearly should not be, at the moment—and that they are not providing an absolutely essential public service to the people? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u71	Mr Bruno Dias of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u72	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs. Minister of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security, systematically, the CFP has drawn attention to the problem of layoff in public transport companies, since the populations suffer from the lack of transport while the workers of these companies are in layoff with their salaries cut. Systematically, we have been alerted to this situation and the government systematically ignores the alerts and allows everything to be kept in it. It is the disregard for the rules and recommendations of the DGS with the overcrowding and unbearable conditions in transport, it is the contempt of the users and populations of those who continue to unnecessarily cut services and leave to the abandonment of those who need the most public transport, this at the very moment when it is even more necessary to increase the supply, and, meanwhile, the thousands of workers of the transport companies, who are more lacking than ever, remain out of the service with their wages and cut rights. Madam Minister, this is a scandal that cannot continue! It is not true what the Prime Minister says when he says that the problems of overcrowding are summed up by the 6 hours train and 36 minutes of the Sintra Line. Before I was! It is not acceptable for private groups, which, essentially, control road passenger transport — the Transtejo Group, Arriva Group, Barraqueiro Group — to announce calmly that they will continue to take advantage of the layoff regime. People need transportation, workers need to return to the service and we can't pay private companies to keep buses stopped! Mr Minister, we are not talking here about the irregularities, abuses, the illegalities that occur with the simplified layoff regime to be used as a weapon to attack rights; we are talking about the simple application of this regime that is clearly demonstrating that crime compensates because crime is in law. The Minister may continue to repeat to the exhaustion that this is all a joint effort, that everyone is mobilized, that they are all together, in dialogue, in the common struggle, of given hands, and out there, but this will not cancel the responsibility of the Government by allowing this scandal to continue to happen. We are facing an urgent situation that requires an urgent response. This is what people and workers tell us in days of struggle from north to south of the country. There are more layoffs, less workers and less transport. Are you going to act, or not, by the government, and in response to this situation, Minister? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u73	To reply, Mr. Minister for Labour, Solidarity and Social Security has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u74	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, trying to respond to all the honourable Members. Members who have asked me questions, first by Mr Teixeira, to whom I have not yet answered, saying that, I think, there is a misunderstanding about numbers. The honourable Member said that only 60 % of the workers were covered by the procedures that were presented, which is not true. What happened was that the companies themselves, when they submitted their layoff requests, did not do so in relation to the total universe of their workers. Therefore, when we speak in 1 million and 300 thousand workers covered, in general, by the requests of Layoff, we are referring to the total universe of the workers of these companies. When companies, on average, submitted requests for layoffs to have a notion, they submitted applications covering around 60 % of their employees. Therefore, the numbers we have are related to the applications and procedures submitted by the companies and what we have done was to assess and decide on the demands of the companies. I think there is a misunderstanding about this number, but I can assure you that this is happening. With regard to the applications submitted, the payment was made to 93 % of those applications, which were valid. Therefore, these 60 % that you talked about nothing have to do with the number of workers who had to do with the requests; on the contrary, it is the overall universe of the workers' map. Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, on the concern for young people and on the need for special programmes dedicated to young people, particularly young people who have been unemployed, I would like to say that in this area we have done a great deal of strengthening in the programmes to support the recruitment of young people, specially dedicated and focused programmes, and also in conversion and qualification, particularly in strategic areas such as the green economy, the digital area and the social sector. With the ACTIVAR.PT programme, our forecast is to cover about 90 000 people in global terms, but with a great focus for specially targeted populations, specifically for young people. The Economic and Social Stabilization Programme ( PEES ) also includes the creation of an extraordinary measure dedicated to informal workers, self-employed workers and workers without social protection precisely in order to address situations still being discovered, in order to be able to respond to all, with the forecast of a support of 1 monthly protractable IAS until December, having as opposed the link of the worker to the social security system. I think that if there was something that was evident during this time it was the importance of people being part of an inclusive social protection system, because, at the time it was necessary to respond, it was the social protection system that responded to everyone. Therefore, even this need to create measures is to ensure that the social protection system, which worked, can respond to all, but with this great concern of ever more we do not look at the social protection system as a cost on an Excel sheet but, on the contrary, to the fact that it is a collective protection system that we all have to be part of. That is the great concern we have with this measure. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I am also taking advantage of the National Radar Social Programme, which is part of the Economic and Social Stabilization Programme, which aims to signal and monitor the homes of vulnerable people, in particular older people, disabled people and victims of domestic violence. There was concern about having a national programme providing for the recruitment of 3000 qualified young people throughout the territory to implement this programme. I believe that it can be a structural programme from the point of view of the populations who most need individualised and personalized monitoring, from the social point of view. Mr. José Luís Ferreira, on the concern of support should be addressed to the companies that need the most, I want to say - that we live clearly - two moments: one emergency, when we were going to tell companies that they could not have economic activity and that they had to suspend their activity, have an instrument for the maintenance of jobs, a broad-band instrument - that was the goal — that was to arrive more quickly at companies to support unemployment growth numbers, that was the simplified layoff, an effective measure from the point of view of maintaining jobs, an instrument that required a shared effort by all — workers, social security, the State budget and businesses; and this moment that we live, which is different from stabilization, in which we are redirecting support for the business activity and not to suspend their activity. Therefore, in support of the progressive recovery, on the one hand, there was concern at distinguishing between companies that have turnover breaks and at distinguishing support according to the level of turnover breakdown, and, on the other hand, at differentiating exemptions, including social contributions, depending on the size of the company and its need, and I do so in two moments so that there is a recovery, a recovery of workers' income, ensuring that this happens in this new instrument. With regard to the strengthening of ACT means, I think I have already responded, but I can still say that there were 2400 inspection actions directed at companies that received support under the simplified layoff in order to identify the situations, with the adoption of 1350 inspection procedures in these companies. Mr. João Almeida, on the unemployment benefit coverage rate, I recall that in 2015 it was 46% and is currently 50 % 5%. Clearly, our concern is, on the one hand, and our measures have taken on the maintenance of employment and on the other, the guarantee that we have measures that respond even to the discovery of some of the social benefits. I recall that what we did was to automatically extend all minimum social benefits — unemployment benefit, social unemployment benefit and RSI (social income for inclusion ). These automatic extensions have now covered 40 000 people, an automatic extension without verification of the maintenance of the requirements. We have also halved the guarantee period for social unemployment—as we know, this has been implemented. What we are doing is creating the exceptional, extraordinary measure for self-employed, informal and unprotected workers to achieve situations that are not covered by these benefits that have already been created. Mr André Ventura, regarding the relationship with the Order of the Certified Accountants, I would like to say that we have had a permanent dialogue which has indeed been very productive because we have worked together for mutual help to implement the measures in the best way, and I think that this dialogue has been quite successful. I take advantage to say that this was a time for which no one was prepared. There was no system prepared with these extraordinary measures that had to be created, under the penalty of having no protection for these situations. I spoke recently about the issue of direct social security, but even the accountants had to deal with the need to submit thousands of requests in a record time, a situation for which no one was prepared. So these have been moments of lifelong learning among all of us to do our best, and I think you've been doing well. In fact, we are currently preparing with the Order of the Certified Accountants for the next steps to reach people as effectively and as simply as possible. With regard to the tests, I believe that this question has been put to the Minister, who has already clarified that it has never been involved in the validity of the tests we carried out in the preventive programme of home and daycare tests and therefore there is no question about this. Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, the concern about the young labour market is common, I think it is a national concern, it is a concern of all of us. Therefore, the direction of these policies to support recruitment and employment is very focused on young people, with very special programmes dedicated to young people within the framework of ATIVAR.PT. However, I think there must be a national mobilization around this priority. We must, in fact, be a country that values young people in the labour market and, when I say this, I also want to mean the ability of companies to value young people as a fundamental asset in the labour market and also — and I now attach the answer to Mrs Vera Prata's question — in combating the precariousness that must be one of our implementation priorities. We know that the numbers of precariousness have fallen in recent years, from 22 % to 20 % and, more recently, to 19 %, as a result, we know of the atypical situation we live in, but clearly this has to be one of our ongoing fights and struggles. Therefore, in this new instrument, which was approved yesterday, from an extraordinary incentive to resume — two minimum support wages for job maintenance — we included as a condition the maintenance of the level of employment in companies during the implementation of the mechanism, i.e. for the next six months. At the simplified layoff, we had banned layoffs...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u75	Mrs. Minister, I call your attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u76	Mr President, then I will finish the answers in my final speech. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u77	Thank you very much, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, as there are no more questions, we are now entering the stage of interventions, and the first is Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, to whom I give the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u78	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. Secretary of State, Mr. Members: I will tell you, Mrs Diana Ferreira, what is funny if it is not tragic. It is to see the Government of the Socialist Party be questioned by the Communist Party on the wages of Portuguese, because the PS has ruled 18 over the last 25 years and has achieved the incredible prowess of today's wages that, in real terms, are little different from what they were at the beginning of the century! The Communist Party has already defended the improvement of wages when in the 21st century it defends an ideology that has only spread misery and oppression, which is even more unbelievable! Here the saying goes well « Say the break to the nude, because you don't dress yourself». [[PS protests.]] The problem is that there are no signs that this state of things is going to change. What is needed for wages to grow in Portugal is economic growth and, for this, different policies are needed: liberal policies, which promote initiative and merit, which attract investment, which increase productivity without which there will be no better wages. It is not necessary to reinvent the wheel, nor is it necessary to look only at liberal countries such as the Netherlands, Belgium, Ireland or Denmark which have twice or triple the average wages; we can inspire ourselves in small countries which have adopted liberal policies such as Estonia, the Czech Republic or Slovakia. They have already caught us, they have already surpassed us and continue to increase average wages greater than ours. When the Liberal Initiative talked about reducing the tax burden on small traders and entrepreneurs, it was very comical; when we talked about reducing the bureaucratic burden on investors and on saving, it was very comic; when we proposed the exemption from IRC (tax on the income of the public) during the pandemic, the exemption for all companies from the special payment on account or the exemption from TSU (unique social rate) for companies, it was all comical and people laughed a lot. Today, in the face of the brutal crisis that Portugal faces, your laugh is yellower: they already accept the exemption of TSU in certain cases and already accept the total exemption of TSU for those who create jobs. Now that the crisis is going on, do you recognize the need for these measures? Why didn't you recognize that before? How many jobs could have been saved in the meantime? This crisis is an opportunity to change course, to grow and have better wages, but, of course, you prefer to continue this tragic media while the Portuguese continue with low wages.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u79	There are no inscriptions to request clarifications, for an intervention, Mrs Catarina Marcelino of the Socialist Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u80	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: The appeal to the Government that the CFP brings here today is closely linked to priority 1 of the Government in the field of employment — protecting and maintaining jobs. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is in this context that this discussion must be held, always taking into account social dialogue. This crisis, it is never too much to repeat, arises violently, abruptly, with an impact on people's lives and on the economy as there is no memory. This reality was strongly felt in the labour market and we know that if there had not been an immediate and muscular response from social security, unemployment figures would be in stratospheric values. The Government's choice was, in addition to the public health response that was required, to respond by protecting employment. The simplified layoff was, as we all must admit, an essential measure to maintain employment during the emergency phase. The measure was requested by more than 100 000 companies and more than 80 000 workers were supported. Another aspect that we cannot scale is the impact of this crisis on the lives of precarious workers or who had their income anchored in the informal market, leading many people to situations of deep and immediate shortage. Sectors such as domestic work, tourism, restoration, fairs and markets are some examples. in these cases, the response to the crisis must be an answer that, on the one hand, seeks to supply immediate needs and, on the other hand, create mechanisms and measures that bring these workers into the social protection system. For these workers there will be an extraordinary measure of support for self-employed and informal workers in situations of social disprotection, which provides for the support of 1 IAS between July and December 2020 and their integration into the social security system, with a 36-month link to the public social protection regime. Today, we can say without a doubt that a strong state is essential to face such a moment as this country is going through. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Without the reinforcement made between 2015 and 2019 at the Social Security Institute, whose human resources were strongly decapitalized between 2011 and 2015, it would not have been possible in record time to respond to layoff requests and all social protection measures created to respond to the needs caused by the pandemic. Therefore, it is the most fundamental justice to thank the workers and workers of social security who worked tirelessly to respond as quickly as possible to those who needed social protection. However, it is essential at this stage of great demand for the country and for the State to be strengthened to monitor compliance with the measures and rules by companies. in this context, ACT has a determining role. In the last two months, the ACT has definitely integrated 188 inspectors, moving, for the first time in the history of the country, to be in line with the ratio proposed by the ILO (International Labour Organization). In addition to the reinforcement carried out in the inspection of the Act, it is also planned to strengthen the number of judges and judicial officers in the working courts, focusing on the defence of workers and workers at a time we know particularly demanding, but in which decent work with consecrated rights must continue to be our main objective. With the impact of the crisis, even taking into account the depreciation measures implemented during the emergency period, employment is expected to be reduced by 3, 9 % and unemployment rates increased by 9, 6 %. But I recall again that numbers are not much higher because the government's priority has always been to maintain jobs. For this reason, it is necessary to respond immediately to the stabilisation phase, creating measures to strengthen the recovery of companies by ensuring workers' income, social protection for those who will be unemployed and creating opportunities for academic qualification and vocational retraining. The layoff will continue until July, with the gradual convergence of the remuneration of workers to 100 % of their wages, the payment of the company for the total hours worked and the progressive reduction of the exemption from social security contributions. in this context, there is also the extraordinary financial incentive for the normalization of business activity, which provides support in one-off mode, a national minimum wage for each worker or two national minimum wages over six months, provided there are no redundancies, as well as the duty to maintain the level of employment within the next 60 days, which ensures the job guarantee for eight months. These companies will also be supported by reducing TSU. There is also the creation of a stabilisation supplement, a single payment measure in July, providing extraordinary support to all workers with incomes in February up to two national minimum wages that were in layoff. In the area of employment, an extended package of measures highlighted measures to support employment and vocational training and support for young people's employment, because we know that this is one of the most affected groups in times of crisis. We do not want young people to emigrate, we want to keep in Portugal the most qualified generation ever... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... and therefore the Economic and Social Stabilisation Programme integrates Programs such as the Young SME Impulse or Youth + Digital. Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: In just over 10 years, we were affected by two crises, the latter with a dimension that we have not been able to fully assess today. Preparing the country for this impact is a unique challenge and an extraordinary requirement. The Economic and Social Stabilization Programme strongly places great emphasis on supporting the economic fabric through support for highly affected sectors, such as tourism or culture, but also by engaging in public investment, through works of proximity that create jobs. On the other hand, the social protection of people most vulnerable by the crisis remains a priority. We know that poverty is not neutral and that it affects women and minorities more severely. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Combat poverty, protect informal workers, duplicate food support capacity, change the reference period of social benefits such as RSI or family allowance for the immediate moment, assign a 13. the family allowance for the 1st. o, 2. o is 3. the steps in September are some examples. Extension of social unemployment allowance by the end of the year, extension of banking moratoriums are other far-reaching measures. The road today differs substantially from the past. We want to overcome this crisis by supporting economic growth, but we want to do so without being at the expense of workers and families. We want to grow and return as quickly as possible to the level of 2019, with certain accounts, decrease the country's debt and a level of confidence for Portuguese and Portuguese in the future. But we have no illusions, this path is only taken with a Europe of solidarity with all its members, which enables us to have an oxygen balloon protecting countries from market speculation and supporting economic development. Only in this context, of strong public institutions, a fair fiscal policy, a stable business fabric, protection of workers and workers and those who are weaker will we be able to overcome this crisis further, combat inequalities and leave no one behind. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u81	Mrs. Deputy, two Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen for clarification. The first is the CDS-PP, for which reason Mr João Piinho de Almeida has already spoken.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u82	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Catarina Marcelino, what you have defended here deserves our profound disagreement. The socialist model that you have defended here is responsible not for what we are helping, but for the needs to be much greater than they should be and because we have not achieved — because we have lost the opportunity in recent years — to be now in the conditions that other countries are now, that is, in exceptional time, we have enough muscle so that people, companies, finally, the economy has a capacity to answer that unfortunately does not have because it is totally bound by a socialist model that does not allow it to have that prosperity. But that's what I'll talk about in my speech. [[PS protests.]] Madam Member, I would like to ask you a very specific question, because I have not yet been able to confirm what the Minister for Finance has said in this Parliament. In the case of the Minister for Finance, in his first speech in this Parliament, he gave incorrect information when he said that the Government had already approved the reduction to half of the period of guarantee of unemployment—and in the case it is unlikely that a person who has the responsibility of the Minister of Finance, at the first time that he comes to Parliament, had given a wrong information on something so easy to know whether or not it is true that, although, obviously, no one wants to leave the Minister of Finance in this unpleasant situation - being, at the stage of specialization, the draft law of the CDS which allows the resolution of this matter and also so that the Minister of Finance does not keep the word at issue, I wonder whether the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group is available to us quickly to conclude the discussion process in the speciality, not so much to save the honour of the Minister of Finance but to help the thousands of Portuguese who are outside this provision, at this time? Is it possible to take this step quickly so that we can, I repeat, help these people?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u83	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u84	Mr António Filipe has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u85	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Marcelino, it seems to us that there are at least two lessons we can learn from the situation we are going through: one of them, and the honourable Member mentioned this, is the necessity of strong public services. If we, in this pandemic situation, did not have the National Health Service and were dependent on the private health sector, we were certainly in an incomparably worse situation than that in which we are. But there is another lesson to be learned, which is that of the lack of protection in which Portuguese workers are faced with decharacterized labour legislation and which does not protect their rights. This is another lesson, which became evident. In other words, we do not have labour legislation to protect workers not only from the pandemic, but above all from what, the pretext of the pandemic, has happened in recent times and has to do with abusive recourse to layoff situations and lay-offs, particularly workers with precarious links that have been fired without but not half of them. The question I put, Mrs Deputies, is if you do not think that, in order to get out of this crisis, as I have said, without being at the expense of the workers, this will not imply decisively rethinking the mechanisms of labour law as they exist today, in particular by once again dignifying collective bargaining and ending those mechanisms of deregulation that serve only the discretion of the employers and that protect workers in relation to the stability of their working bonds. This is a very concrete issue. Mrs Deputies, there was then one aspect in her speech which concerned me when, firstly, she compared the economic crisis resulting from this pandemic with an economic crisis which had a completely different origin and which had to do with the increase in public deficits to capitalise on the banks at the expense of taxpayers, but in which the European Union's revenue was to impose the troika, the austerity we know and in which the country only came out of the crisis when it turned the page of this austerity, and when, secondly, Mrs Deputy told us that we should not have illusions because we will only be able to get out of this crisis with a solidarity Europe. So I ask you, Mrs Deputies, what will we do if Europe is as supportive this time as it was in the last crisis, in which you imposed a troika on us and wanted to impose an austerity that in good time we were able to overcome. So if we are dependent on the solidarity of the European Union, I would say that we are unhappy. In short, the question I would like to put to you, Madam Member, is if you do not think it's time for us to rethink the labour legislation we have in order to better protect workers' rights. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u86	In reply, Mrs Catarina Marcelino has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u87	Mr President, Mr. João Almeida, we have a very different view of society, so the fact that we disagree is obvious,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u88	It's not obvious!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u89	...is natural and is part of the democratic system. I would like to tell you that the specialty in this Parliament has its time. Therefore, appreciation in the specialty will take place in due course, after the initiative will again ascend to the Plenary, where the vote will take place, when it will have the answer to the question it has asked me. With regard to the question put by Mr António Filipe, I would like to say the following: collective bargaining is a cause we are defending. Collective contracting is essential for the rights of workers and the labour market to be regulated and for the rights to be met. I would also like to tell you, Mr President, that the Economic and Social Stabilization Programme has a set of innovative measures that protect workers, as has never happened before, especially for precarious people and those who are in the informal economy, as well as providing for a stabilisation supplement. There are therefore a number of measures that actually support workers. As for Europe, fortunately, we are at another stage in Portugal, we are at another stage in Europe, so the path will certainly be another. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u90	For an intervention, you now have the floor of Mrs Carla Barros of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u91	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In the face of this debate scheduled today by the Portuguese Communist Party on the protection of workers' rights and wages, it is important to point out that the PSD has a completely different view of these labour issues, in relation to the proposed party of this debate. The CFP finds in the companies the reason for all the evils of the workers, when we all know that there are no workers with good wages and good working conditions if there are no strong and prosperous companies. The PSD assumes and wants to make it clear that there must be a plan to protect employment and to protect wages in the face of the greatest recession of all time. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, although the Socialist Party has that way of birth to soften the numbers, the difficult scenario is in sight. But since we are not a dying country, we will overcome and overcome this phase with the help of all, and the PSD will always be for the national interest. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u92	The government has to do everything in its power to protect citizens and families, and businesses and workers, always, but especially at this pandemic stage. The PSD, to the delight of many and the disappointment of few, had a very collaborative attitude, but nevertheless the government did not fail in essence. The alerts were given by us, but also by personalities and institutions such as the Providence of Justice, which has both alerted to the lack of social protection at this time. Yesterday, the publication of his report on 2019 unfortunately reveals an increase in the number of social security complaints from citizens. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the government fails, because it does not pay its suppliers of goods and services in time and hours, causing them enormous liquidity problems.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u93	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u94	The deadlines are much more than in the period of the troika, where the financial difficulties were very justified at that time. The government fails, because it does not return to workers and their families, with the speed that the moment demands, the money of the IRS that is due to them. The government fails, because it has not properly protected, under social security, partners-managers, and self-employed workers, workers with green receipts, as well as other workers with diverse multi-employment situations. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the government fails, because it has not been able to speed up and execute support for companies under the Layoff, and a large part of them are still without any support and with obstacles to the decision of their process. The government fails, because many of the families needed more help in their homes and the strengthening of home support was fundamental for the social sector, which does as much as possible, but which also feels the government's absence and lack of commitment. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the government fails, because in many cases it takes about two years to calculate and process pensions, when the law determines that it should take place within 90 days. And this long waiting period puts people in a situation of greater social vulnerability, harming them at the home of IRS, when the retroactive value finally arrives after so many months of waiting, and preventing them from resorting to other social support to which they would be entitled. The government fails, because it has not yet successfully internalised the loss of tax revenue, the rise of public debt and the brutal escalation of unemployment and is not designing active employment and vocational training policies adjusted at the moment, ensuring good physical and financial implementation of these measures in the field, because, from the approval of support for employment and the creation of jobs and internships, up to the payment of this value to businesses, waiting time is immense. [[PS protests.]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD has defended and warned about all these matters which I have just mentioned and proposed numerous measures of economic and social leverage—and the Government has nevertheless failed so much, but so much... and in this difficult period, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the delay in the arrival of the government's support and response can lead to many companies already being closed and never getting up again. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the Portuguese are afraid of these inaction impulses of the Socialist Party in times of crisis. [[PS protests.]] So we will all be involved in the recovery of the country, we will all be involved without exception, not in the name of this dying Government of the Socialist Party, but in the national interest. [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]] That's true, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen. You have to listen. Political parties, social partners, employers, workers and their representatives, we are all called to do our best to get out of this crisis quickly. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u95	Mrs Mara Coelho, from the PS, wrote to ask for clarification. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u96	Mr President, I would like to congratulate the Minister for Labour, Solidarity and Social Security. State Secretarys of State, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen. I also thank the PCP for bringing this debate and this reflection to plenary, until, when we talk about protecting workers' rights and wages in this very particular context of crisis, we are also always talking about ideology and how responses to the crisis are clearly different, as we had little chance to see with the intervention of Mrs PSD. History, even recently, shows us these differences. And that is why it is always interesting to see that those who usually understand the State as the invisible hand, a heavy machine that needs to "burn fats", and who in a great way contributed to the embarrassment of many public services, that which divided the country between public and private, in a narrative against each other, that has privileged the emigration of the younger and austerity policies as an immediate response to the crisis, who usually understands this, I repeat, come now, finally, to recognize the importance of the social state and the fundamental response of social security to this crisis, which is quite different from what happened in 2008 and which proved that ideology really makes the difference in how the responses are given and the alternatives are found. For us, it is very clear and is very visible, either in emergency responses, either now at the beginning of the resumption with the Economic and Social Stability Programme that extends a set of immediate responses in the area of work and social protection, that the Government and this Ministry in particular have known how to act at the right time and with the extraordinary measures necessary to protect the rights of workers, families, who were in a situation of greater social vulnerability and companies. I therefore want to publicly acknowledge here the importance of public social security and the enormous effort of these workers who, in a short space of radical change from the normal functioning of the institution, were able to reinvent and respond to the thousands of workers and companies who were in a situation of social and economic emergency,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... with the difficulties inherent in the sudden changes in the circumstances and the need to adapt the system. Therefore, in this Economic and Social Stabilization Programme and in the Supplementary Budget, an oxygen balloon is created to help businesses and families and encourage the reopening of establishments rather than financing the suspension. Having said this, I end with only one question for the PSD. The government has done everything to respond to families, workers and businesses. The only question is whether this time the right and the PSD will be on the right side of history and will contribute to the implementation of these measures. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u97	In reply, Mrs. Carla Barros has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u98	Mr President, Mrs Mara Coelho, thank you very much for your questions. First of all, when the honourable Member asks whether the PSD will be available to be on the right side of history. Mrs. Deputy, you are forgetting the story:... [[PSD applause.]] ... the PSD starts its governance in 2011 to recover the country from bankruptcy in which the Socialist Party left it! O Mrs. Deputy! [[PSD applause.]] Madam Member, we are always ready to be on the right side of history. But if the honourable Member attaches so much importance to history, she should have gone to a more recent past, for example, to the last Government of the Socialist Party, to analyze what has not been done... [[Protests from PS MP Mara Rabbit.]] ... and try to understand, for example, why yesterday, the report of the Ombudsman came out — and the honourable Member spoke both in social protection for workers and in social security! — which says that citizens' complaints about social security have increased in relation to previous years. [[Protests from PS MP Mara Rabbit.]] It is the 2019 activity report. But does the honourable Member feel comfortable asking for explanations to the PSD about what he has done in the past and whether or not he wants to be on the right side of history, when yesterday a report from the Ombudsman came out of which, in no way, the government should be proud? Oh, my God! [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]] Mrs Deputy, on the PSD, on the PSD's action and on evidence given I think I can stay here because Mrs Deputy is already clear. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u99	Having no further requests for clarification, I give the floor to Mr José Soeiro of the Left Block for an intervention. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u100	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mrs and Mrs. Members: In recent days, the Members of the Left Block have met with 16 delegations from the Labour Conditions Authority in 14 different districts and in the coming days we will meet with the rest. at these meetings, we presented more than 1300 complaints that arrived at the Left Block and that are published on the siteDispatements.pt. They are complaints of dismissal of precarious workers, of lack of payment of wages, of holidays imposed unilaterally, of lack of protective equipment and abuse in layoff or in the application of telework. There are examples for everything. There are examples of companies that impose forced holidays after they have fired precarious workers, as happens in Tyco Electronics in Évora. Or from companies that have discarded hundreds of outsourcing workers as if they had nothing to do with it, as happened to IKEA. Or companies that first fired workers, then resorted to layoff and then even recruited workers who had fired, under worse conditions, as happened in Molaflex, in Santa Maria da Feira. Or companies that have profits, which are producing 100 % and which announce redundancies of workers, as happens with Super Bock. Or even companies that remember absolutely surreal schemes, such as the Cordex in Ovar, which did this extraordinary thing not to pay the workers during the days of the health camp, even those who kept working, and tell them that it would be social security that would pay them, which is obviously absurd, even above having unilaterally imposed the holidays on the workers. There is everything, and all this happens with a great feeling of impunity. The Government has come here to stress that it has strengthened the framework of the Act. That is true, that is undeniable, only that the Act acts with the legal framework that exists and that is the responsibility of the Government. It was the government that chose to draw support for companies without ensuring demanding counterparts from the point of view of maintaining employment and respect for those who work. The Minister insists that companies receiving public support are forbidden to fire, but the government has not included in this prohibition the precarious workers, workers who were precisely the first victims of the crisis, dismissed to thousands in companies now receiving public support.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u101	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u102	The Minister announced that the Government has already approved the support of two minimum wages for each worker who resumes the activity in companies that are now taking up the activity and said that this support has as its counterpart the maintenance of employment levels. It is only that the levels of employment required to enterprises are those already resulting from the wave of dismissals, when what is required was that the companies that fired should not have access to public support bearing the name « protection for employment », because without this condition, and it was not required by the government, what is being done is to reward the abuse of taxpayer money. Nor is it defensive that the PS, PSD, CDS and the Liberal Initiative continue to believe that companies that do not contribute to the Portuguese State, because they fled to offshorers who chose not to pay taxes in our country, now ask for our tax money to support their activity. With what legitimacy is a company that does not pay taxes in Portugal demand the tax money of who pays them here to support its activity? To prevent this is a matter of decency, but it is these counterparties that have not been required. Mrs. Minister, Mrs. and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we need economic support to aim at employment rather than transfering wealth to employers who despise the Labour Law and we need to ensure that no one is left behind. in this Supplementary Budget we can include, concretely, the extraordinary grant of unemployment and cessation of activity which the Left Block proposed and which has already been approved in Parliament. He would arrive to the workers who are receiving green receipts, who have been receiving their support since yesterday; he would arrive to the domestic workers, to the informal workers, to the workers on behalf of others, who have no warranty deadline, to the pockets, to the lawyers, to all those who today have no social protection. We also need to be demanding, and we are demanding, is to have all the mechanisms and social protection measures to cover everyone, and not only to come to the aid of just social measures for the effects of a strategy of abuse and employer use, which can and should be waged before. That is our commitment. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u103	Mr Alma Rivera, from the CFP, has the floor for an intervention. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u104	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It has already been proven by more b than whenever the thing tightens only a few are called to pay the bill. That was the case earlier, and this is the way the government has chosen to follow. The whole situation of the outbreak punished much more those who have less, those who live from their work and who were already in a situation of vulnerability and exclusion. Unfortunately the first cases of the virus emerged, precariousness revealed its blackest side: when the people most needed stability, to protect themselves and theirs, they were simply discarded, and this was because the policy of successive governments allows thousands of workers in temporary work enterprises and thousands to false green receipts. Those and those who were in such an experimental period, which the Government, PS, PSD and CDS approved in the last revision of the Labour Code, were soon the first to enter the new 133 000 registered in the employment centre. Hundreds of collective redundancies followed. Whoever was worse was worse: it was the workers who received less than 650 € who were most affected. But was the situation dramatic for all? No, and you have to report it! The great solution of the government, the Layoff, was effective, but it was only for large companies to divert money from the state. It served to lower incomes and not to benefit workers, small businesses and save jobs. The State pays the bulk of wages, affecting social security, while large companies are exempted from the payment of TSU. That's it! How is it possible for a company to target 500 workers in Layoff to have 10 million to invest? How is it permitted, in a situation where there are whole families with no incomes, that companies with hundreds of millions of profits cut wages and will seek support, even if they put their money in tax havens? In order to run the workers there are differences, but never the profits of those who have the most, who should be called to contribute. Instead, the virus was an excellent opportunity to reduce other costs and test operating methods, as if for health reasons thousands of workers were sent to telework, obliged simultaneously to assist children, the truth is that many companies save from it: they have legitimately stopped paying food subsidies, most have not provided any material, computer, water, light, Internet or telephone. The overwhelming majority of the workers worked, yes, much more hours. This is not to combat the virus, which is the worsening of exploitation, is the intensification of the pace of work, the invasion of private life, the loss of the frontier between working time and each one's time for his life, with isolation and the difficulty in controlling these situations. There are companies that dare want to film, watch the workers in their homes! Who's serving, after all, all this? Is it the women, who will be the first to return home, bringing home their domestic work and the follow-up of their children, as in the past? Who will serve the passage from a room of civil servants for telework? Will the people, who will see reduced public services and counters to deal with problems, when what is needed is better public services, with more workers and closer to people? And who is benefiting from the layoff of private transport companies? Will the populations, the most exploited layer, so that it is on the front line, that it has palms, that it can never stop, that goes and comes every day in overcrowded transport? In fact, the danger of COVID is more present to those who have less, but the virus of inequality, this virus of opportunism, of unmarked exploitation, has been widespread for decades. It is not acceptable to use a pandemic, a health situation to aggravate exploitation and concentrate wealth on economic groups.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u105	Madam Member, I would like to draw your attention to time!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u106	I'm done now, Mr. President. Not even a right to those who work! The rights are not quarantine, it is necessary, yes, to defend them, and the CFP will be here for that. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u107	Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Greens Ecologist Party (“The Greens”) spoke for one speech. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u108	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In this circumstance, I would like to take this opportunity to welcome the Portuguese Communist Party for having scheduled this appeal to the Government for today, because if it is true that the protection, rights and wages of those who work are always timely matters, in the context in which we live, where we see a kind of confining of the rights of those who work, with the large companies who, without any shame, seek to make a table of workers' rights, of course these matters take on more current and more opportunity. In the face of what is happening, this House cannot remain indifferent, swirling aside, pretending that nothing is happening and that everything is okay, because it is not. Every day, reports of abuses are coming from large companies, testimonies in the first person and give us the idea of the real dimension of the problems, with thousands of workers experiencing truly dramatic situations: dismissals at all times, reduction of wages, unilateral changes of hours and the consequent cut in shift and night work allowances, imposition of forced holidays, inhibition of the exercise of rights, such as maternity or paternity, and out there. It's the law of the jungle reigning in the realm of the valley all! When we talk about workers with precarious links, then the scenario is even more worrisome. Thousands of employees with long-term contracts, experimental workers, false green receipts and workers in temporary work enterprises each day are unemployed and without any means of subsistence, and the most serious is that many of these companies are receiving State support, and some of them even with the discharge of their tax office in tax havens. It can't be! However, the pandemic cannot be transformed into an opportunity to restrict rights and, above all, cannot weaken the role of the State in its role of guaranteeing the rights of those who work. Therefore, Mrs. Minister, what was required was to say to these companies, without any rounds: « My gentlemen, the recreation is over! Whoever abused does the favor of returning the resources he received from the State, which he received from the taxpayer. Those who have violated labour laws assume the legal consequences. Who reduced wages to the injured workers. Those who have made unilateral changes in hours in order to cut into the night shift or work allowances that are duly correct in the accounts. And he who has wrongly dismissed him shall return." That's what's important. And since the Minister did not answer the questions I put to her at the question stage, about the Working Conditions Authority, I hope that she can do so next time she uses the floor in this House.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u109	For an intervention, Mr André Ventura, of the Arrival, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u110	Mr. President, Mr. S. the Minister, Mr. Members: What we are discussing today, brought by the CFP, has to do with working rights. I told the Minister that no one was ready. It is true, even yesterday, that the Ombudsman confirmed that the Government was not prepared to deal with this crisis, either in the computer system or in the bureaucracy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u111	Was it enough? Oh, my God! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u112	But it is ironic that it is the CFP to bring this debate to Parliament, since, together with the Left Block, it has approved the Budget with the greatest tax burden ever, with which Portuguese have so much suffocated in recent years, and that it is the same CFP that approved the State budget that strangled Portuguese companies and led to companies not even staying in Portugal with bureaucracy but in other places. It was also the PCP and the Left Block that allowed the Socialist Party to give it to the Portuguese, to whom every day it has to drive, the most expensive fuels in Europe. We are going to have gross unemployment levels in the coming months, there are those who say 10 %, there are those who say 13 %. And now the robust economy that the Socialist Party had created, the very strong economy that it had created is summed up by a hand extended to Europe, waiting for the money that comes from Brussels. Where is the great economy of 2020? Where is the future economy? Where is Portugal being the example of European partners? [[Protests from PS Santinho Pacheco.]] It's gone! It is an open hand throughout Europe, waiting for Brussels money. Mrs. Minister of Labour, Mrs. Members: In 2015, I remember the newspaper El País... [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]] ... to say that António Costa had many qualities, but that there was one that stood out,... [[Protests by PS Member Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro.]] ...that was the illusionist. Over the years, we have to recognize that it's not just António Costa that he's an illusionist...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u113	Sir, I call your attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u114	The gentlemen. Ministers are illusionists and, more serious than that, half or two thirds of this Parliament have become the biggest illusionists of Portuguese. What's worth is that the end of this illusion is soon to come. [[PS and ENP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u115	For an intervention, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u116	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. At the end of this debate there is something that, for us, is indeed clear: the health crisis that we are experiencing has accentuated deep inequalities that have persisted in our country and if we had, before, about 2,2 million people at risk of poverty or material deprivation, the latest indicators, following this crisis, are already talking about an increase in unemployment about 10 %. These are elements that we cannot ignore. Unfortunately, precariousness and social vulnerability are not a recent problem. We see the period of validity of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Portuguese Government and the troika, which was characterized by the degradation of working conditions, the increase in unemployment and the significant reduction in wages. This means that there has long been a bill to pay our fellow citizens, an invoice that already has interest in spending, which is not admitted that they have not yet begun to be liquidated, when they extend their hand to other interests, including companies that continue to be based on tax havens, polluting activities, among so many other sectors that we could set out here. Having said that, when we are voting on the Supplementary Budget, we will have an opportunity to restore some of the justice that has taken time to reach people, whether in terms of their professional valorization, whether in the eradication of precariousness, or also in the fight against what may be false green receipts, giving better working conditions. There is no right time for options that are difficult and must be courageous, but the right time is, of course, this, because every day that passes is too late and we are taking time in what is fundamental in our country: in responding to people and the appreciation they need so much, which is not made with palms, it is not done with showoff or with Champions Leagues,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u117	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u118	... it is effectively done with concrete measures.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u119	Mr João Pinho de Almeida, from the CDS-PP, now has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u120	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Discussing the rights of workers and their salaries is important not only in this context, which the CFP proposes to us today, but always. And, precisely for those who propose this debate, it is important to remember that one of the issues they have brought here, which was the reality of telework and its difficulties during this period, was discussed in this Parliament long before this situation. The CDS brought her here two years ago and three years ago. And how did the PCP and the whole left vote, when the CDS here presented projects to defend the rights of workers and to enforce regulation of this type of work, so that, in these circumstances, or others, this type of work could be done with the protection of the worker? Oh, my God! They voted against it! How did you vote on the left, when we presented here the right to disconnect and when we presented here, for example, the need for the worker to be entitled, if this is not established, to set his own working time, when he is working at a distance? They voted against it! Therefore, what you have seen here now complain, to some extent, they have had the opportunity to predict before, defending the workers, and they have not taken advantage of this opportunity. But it is more important to say that what is at issue here, as I have already said, when I questioned the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, are different models of society. For four years, we have warned of the opportunity that Portugal was losing and for the speech of Mário Centeno, of certain accounts that would bring us to the leadership of Europe, and we will always see that our GDP (gross domestic product) per capita was in the tail of Europe and that all countries exceeded Portugal not only in per capita GDP but also in average wages. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, there is no better average wage without a more competitive economy, no more competitive economy without an investment, no more investment without a tax policy that is capable of attracting. So, excuse me, but what we have to do is the opposite of everything you said here. What we have to do is make Portugal competitive, from now on in fiscal policy. What we have to do is create more capital in our economy in order to have investment. What we have to do is create and produce more, because only if we create more, only if we produce more, only if we become competitive will our workers also be able to have their wages, their working conditions and their improved quality of life. And, above all, we have to restore something that, in Portugal, set up at all, which is the social elevator, something that, in free societies, is essential. When someone is born, he has to be able to have the ambition of, with his work, going up into life and reaching a point far above that from where he left. If you continue to level below, if you continue to put the state at all the opportunity of the economy to develop and become competitive, you are not only limiting the country's results, you are, above all, limiting the opportunity of each Portuguese to have a better life. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u121	You have the floor for an intervention by Mrs Ofélia Ramos of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u122	Mr President, Mrs. Minister for Labour, Solidarity and Social Security, Mrs. Members: By historical upheaval or political sectarianism, one lives in Portugal a culture dominated by the idea that big villains are companies and entrepreneurs. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, sometimes it is enough to return to fundamental truths. [[Protests of PCP Members.]] There is no employment without economic activity. There are no companies without workers or workers without companies. And the state doesn't generate money, the state money is the money of all the taxpayers, it's the money of all of us. They are truths of La Palice, but that many want to forget or, then, it gives them way to forget. So, in the face of the economic crisis we are facing, these are two main priorities in our country, one of which is the rapid recovery of the economy, businesses and productive capacity.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u123	And people!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u124	This is the most effective way to promote employment, and the more employability, the better the conditions and the quality of life of people. Therefore, the PSD presented a programme for the recovery and recovery of the economy, with a view to preserving businesses, promoting employment and promoting investment. The other priority, no less important, is the social protection of the most unprotected, that is, of all those who are deprived of income and social support. And here, the State must fulfil its role as guarantor of the social state. No one can stay behind, no one can stay below the minimum of human dignity,... [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]] ... irrespective of your working condition or your contributing career. The PSD recognises that layoff has been fundamental to maintaining employment, but the measures presented so far by the Government for the social protection of workers are insufficient and leave many people behind. this is an example of support for independent workers and support for members of the statutory bodies. Support is insufficient and leaves out many workers who do not meet the contributing conditions to have access to such support. And it is not the PSD who says so, it is the Ombudsman who says so and in this sense sent a recommendation to the Government that has not been fulfilled so far.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u125	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u126	Exceptional times require exceptional measures and, in this sense, the Government has the responsibility not to fail those who today depend on the State, because tomorrow will certainly be an asset to make Portugal a more competitive country. This must be our great challenge. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u127	Mrs Joana Sá Pereira, from the PS, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u128	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The debate this morning was absolutely fundamental to show that without a strong social state, capable of helping the Portuguese when they need it most, we would be failing all those we represent.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u129	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u130	That's what we've been and we've been doing since 2015 : respecting the Portuguese people and the workers of our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u131	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u132	That's why, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, it could not be different now. In the face of adversity, the government's response was immediate, anticipating a sharp destruction of jobs and a massive increase in insolvency, thus responding to the risk of exponential increase in social exclusion. in this second phase, in which we consolidate the collective effort of the Portuguese, the Stabilization Programme allows to continue to protect incomes, especially those of independent workers and informal workers, to which support for recruitment, support for employment in recovery and higher vocational training. We also highlight in this Programme the measures aimed at recruiting and qualifying young people, those who are most punished by crises, such as ATIVAR.PT, SME Impulso Jovem or the National Radar Social Programme, which are real incentives for combating youth unemployment. We must not fail to point out the schizophrenia we witnessed in this debate: the right of cuts in wages, pensions and workers' rights, and which decapitalizes social security,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... and a new right that confuses the government's bench with the market bench and which, today, in apparent selective amnesia,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u133	Speaking of amnesia, where is Socrates? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u134	... seeks to devalue the effort of all Portuguese who contribute, daily, to the construction of the social state. After all, the social state, all of us collectively organized, was precise and necessary.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u135	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u136	The PSD Member mentioned delays. Let us remember, Mrs. Member : between 2011 and 2013 social security lost 3000 workers. Your government, your government has sent hundreds of workers for retraining.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u137	Look at the amnesia!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u138	Since 2015, we have strengthened the labour force of social security by 10 %. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs Ofélia Ramos, we have not received lessons in valuing employment and the social security workforce of your government and your bank. The PS did not fail the workers, did not fail the young people, did not fail the entrepreneurs and did not fail the job. We are and will always be available to deepen this debate and we will also have this opportunity in particular. [[Protests from PSD MP João Moura.]] Dignity, justice and social protection — this is the permanent struggle of the Socialist Party. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u139	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now moving to the closing stage of the debate. I begin by giving the floor to the applicant for this debate, which is the CFP, in the person of Mr António Filipe. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u140	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : There is no lack of praise for workers complaining in these days of pandemic. It is only that there are many thousands of workers who, for these days, gain in praise what they lose in rights.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u141	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u142	Praises have come even to those who, on the pretext of orders of the troika, have cut wages, have abolished rights, have increased working days, but who now appear as the firmest defenders of the rights they have liquidated. Over the past five years, many workers have recovered income and rights they had lost, and the CFP is very proud to have contributed to it. It has been shown that the right path to economic and social progress was not so-called austerity and that the country is only better if the Portuguese, who, with their work, contributed, or contributed, to the creation of national wealth, are better. But at the time that the pandemic crossed our path and changed to worse our way of life, much hope was to be realized. in a crucial issue, such as labour law, there have not been measures that have been required in the last five years to alter the deep imbalance between capital and work that many years of right-wing policy have done everything to emphasize. Portugal arrived in 2020 with an economy still based on scandalously low wages, in which many thousands of workers impoverish work. With unacceptable levels of precariousness. With the frustration of legitimate expectations of progression in careers. With the laws of the jungle to rule in the world of work before a little more than inoperative act. With the sabotage of collective bargaining by the patronate. With a deregulation of working relations preventing the reconciliation of work with family life, and at the end of 2019 with the unacceptable six-month extension of the experimental period. in this situation, the appearance of the COVID-19 pandemic was the perfect storm for those who live from their work. We do not say that the pandemic is a work of fiction and that everything could be kept as it was. We know there would be inevitable consequences in many spheres of life. But we also know, by unforgettable facts, that in the world of work the pandemic has broad coasts and that there is no lack of those who take advantage of these circumstances to take forward what they always wanted, further weakening the situation of workers, increasing even more social inequalities, contributing to the increase of poverty and exclusion. They tell us that we are on the same boat, but they hide, with this supposed equalitarianism, that there is a minority traveling in the first class and an increasing number of passengers sent to the basement. And these are the workers who were fired so that the shareholders of their companies could continue to receive dividends. It is the workers with precarious ties who have seen their contracts not be renewed on the pretext of the pandemic. They are the workers without bond who were put on the street without but not half but. It is the self-employed, or independent workers, who have lost income to guarantee a minimum of living conditions. They are the workers referred to the layoff with the loss of one third of the salary under threat of loss of jobs, even in cases where there is no justification for that. How do we understand that, in a situation where physical distance measures are precisely imposed, workers who cannot stop using public transport must travel as sardines in can because transport companies have reduced their careers and put workers in layoffs? The examples we have brought here, of so many large companies that reconcile millionaire profits with redundancies of thousands of workers, have not been invented by us. These are examples that mark the reality of our country and confirm the fairness of the statement that the CFP has adopted « not a right to less ». For large sectors of the patronage this pandemic came to call for generalizing forms of work that have long tried to impose. They light up with the wonders of telework and distance teaching and proclaim, in almost triumphal tone, that nothing will be as before. For the CFP, the use of technological progress for the development and improvement of working conditions and life is not at stake. What is at stake is the creation of illusions based on advantages, such as time saved in transport or the strengthening of individual autonomy, to conceal the real fragility resulting from permanent availability, the pressure to increase the time and pace of work, the transfer of social burdens from the company to the worker himself, the firewall of privacy, on the pretext of the need to control the work done at home, the social confinement imposed on workers. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members, in the pandemic situation we are going through, the country owes everything to its workers. The country owes its workers the functioning of health services, the provision of essential goods and services, the making of the tripas heart so that the school year is not lost, the collection of garbage, the efforts of the staff of the authorities in support of the population, the support to whom it has been unable to leave home, the guarantee of public security, the functioning of essential sectors to avoid even more serious consequences for the national economy, the huge desire to resume activity, to take measures to protect public health and to face hardships so that life can regain normality. When we say « not a right to less», what we are saying is that it is not acceptable for the rights of workers to be damaged, not by the pandemic, but by the pretext of the pandemic. What we are saying is that the State's effort to get the country to recover from the pandemic is necessarily to support all those who, living from their work, have seen their personal and family income severely affected. What we are saying is that fighting for the increase of the national minimum wage for all workers, fighting for the fair dignity of careers, fighting for the valorization of collective bargaining, fighting for the stability of ties, fighting for the fair regulation of labour relations, are objectives that assume, today more than ever, total relevance and relevance. The country owes nothing to the bottom to shake to whom the New Bank was offered. The country owes nothing to those who run away with the millionaire profits abroad to avoid paying taxes in Portugal. The country owes nothing to the beneficiaries of PPPs (public-private partnerships) or excessive energy income. The country owes nothing to private shareholders of TAP or CTT or those who put workers in layoffs but want to buy a communication group. But it is all due to its workers, who deserve better wages, who deserve better working conditions and living conditions, who deserve better public services than, after all, are paid by their taxes and work with their work. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the pandemic cannot be the troika of the 20s. On the contrary, in the face of the disastrous consequences of this pandemic, there is only one viable way to recover: to strengthen public services, which have proved essential and to make decisive progress in promoting the rights of workers and the people. It is necessary to combat inequalities and discrimination, to guarantee the rights of men and women, the younger and the older, to all workers regardless of ethnic or nationality. Fallbacks never again. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u143	You now have the floor to close this debate, Mrs. Minister for Labour, Solidarity and Social Security, Ana Mendes Godinho.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u144	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: What has mobilized us is jobs, jobs, jobs! All we have done has been to protect jobs and ensure job maintenance, supporting companies, supporting workers, supporting families. All our concern has been to mitigate the effects of this pandemic and to ensure that companies continue to have conditions to maintain jobs and that workers continue to have their incomes. We have achieved all that we have done thanks, too, to what has been achieved over the past few years: the capacity to create jobs; the increase in the minimum wage, which has increased from €505 to €635, and which has always been protected in all the measures we have created for the maintenance of employment; the strengthening of the system and sustainability of social security and public accounts, which today enables us to respond in this way, speedy and effective, to all the needs that have arisen in the various dimensions, in support of employment, in support of businesses, in support of families, in support of the most vulnerable populations. The numbers speak for themselves. So far, with these extraordinary measures, 1,220 000 workers have been supported, EUR 780 million has been paid under the extraordinary social security measures and 144 000 companies have received already paid social security support. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Let's go on. Nothing moves us, nothing stops us. With this Economic and Social Stabilization Programme, we expect an increase of EUR 2, EUR 7 billion for the social security budget to continue this path of support for the maintenance of employment, the response to unemployment and support for families and the most vulnerable populations. We foresee: a new extraordinary stabilisation supplement, paid directly to the workers, already in July, for the recovery of income; the 13th. The month of family allowance; the updating of family allowance payments based on the most updated reference values of workers' salaries; a new progressive recovery instrument to support the resumption of work, with the concern of the recovery of workers' wages at this stage of the stabilization phase; a tool to encourage family allowances based on the most updated reference values of workers' wages; a new progressive recovery instrument to support the return of work; a new tool to resume to support the return of work to resume the activity, with the concern of the recovery of workers' wages at this stage we are experiencing stabilization; an incentive instrument to resume in order to support businesses, with the counterpart of maintaining employment levels of employment in the next six months; a new step-up instrument for the extension of the social unemployment benefit allowance for unemployment; an extension of the social Radar Social Radare programme, once again, once again, automatic and extraordinary and extraordinary and extraordinary, once again; the start-up-up period; the start-up programme of employment support and social security security ; the role ; the social security programme ; the role ; the social security programme is being used ; the role mobilisation of the role ; the role ; the social security programme ; the role mobil ; the role mobil mobil mobil ; the role mobil ; the role mobil ; the real ; the real mobil mobil mobil mobil mobil ; the real ; the real ; the real ; the real ; the role of the role of the role and the role of the role of the role of the role and social ; the role and social ; the role, the role of the role of the real role of the real role of the real role of the real ; the real role of the real ; the real role of the real ; the real role of the real ; ; ; the real ; the real ; the real ; the real ; the real ; the real ; the real ; the real role and the real ; the real ; the real ; the real ; the real ; the real ; the real ; the real, the real ; the real, the real, the real ; the real, the real, the real ; the real role of the real ; the real ; the real ; the real ness of the [[P.S.'s applause.]] We will also simplify the licensing of social equipment, passing from a complex licensing process to a mere prior communication, so as to quickly have the processes and the simplification of the social responses. This crisis has demanded, and has demanded of all, concrete and rapid action and measures, which is what we have done, thanks to a great capacity for dialogue with all — with the parties and with the social partners — and with a great capacity to implement those who are the instruments of the social state, who are the civil servants, to whom I thank for all the efforts that have been made to implement the measures that have been created in record time to respond to unforeseen needs. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Never, as today, has the social security system been so important. Never, as today, was so important the social state. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u145	And that is what we will continue, to ensure the protection and inclusion of all, the balance between the various interests in the presence, supporting companies to maintain jobs, supporting workers, supporting incomes, supporting families, supporting the most vulnerable people. The times are difficult, the times are very demanding, but they have our commitment to continue giving everything for the country, for employment, for people together with everyone. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice-President Antonio Filipe.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u146	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, before we move on to the voting period, the last item on our agenda, Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha will give us an account of the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u147	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, have entered the Bureau, and have been admitted, Resolution Projects Nos 525 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of measures to support fun and roaming companies in the context of the COVID-19 pandemic, 526 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government prohibit the use of lead in munitions of kinetic activity and in firing camps and 527 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government support non-governmental environmental charities in the context of the crisis caused by the pandemic caused by SARS-CoV-2. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u148	We shall then proceed to the voting period. First, we have the Vote Project No 257 / XIV / 1. a ( presented by the CDS-PP ) — regretting the death of Admiral Vieira Matias. I would ask Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha to read.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u149	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is of the following content: « He died last June 13 the Admiral Vieira Matias, 80 years old. Full name Nuno Gonçalo Vieira Matias, was born in Porto de Mos on June 9, 1939. Admiral Vieira Matias graduated in Naval Military Sciences at the Naval School in 1961, and attended a dozen courses in NATO countries, including the promotion of Admiral, Naval War College in the United States, in the academic year 1988 / 89. from 1961 to 1963, and from Guinea, as Commander of the Special Marine Detachment, from 1968 to 1970, and from being Commander of the Force of Marines, Captain of the Port of Portimão and Lagos, Commander of the Portuguese Republic João Belo, Head of Division of the Army Staff and Professor of the Higher Naval Institute of War. At the post of Admiral, he was Deputy Chief of the Army Senior State, Superintendent of Material Services, Naval Commander in accumulation with Commander-in-Chief Ibrian Atlantic Area of NATO ( North Atlantic Treaty Organization ), and finished his career as Chief of Army Senior State, from 1997 to 2002. In addition to the military career, he stands out as a member of the Strategic Committee of the Oceans, the European Security Research Advisory Board, President of the Supreme Council of the League of Combatants, President of the Marine Academy, Member of the Academy of Sciences of Lisbon and the Portuguese Academy of History, Member of the Council of Honor of the ISCSP ( Higher Institute for Social Sciences and Policy ), President of the Supreme Council of the Historical Society of Independence of Portugal and Vice-President of the Society of Geography of Lisbon. He was grateful with dozens of national and foreign decorations, highlighting the Great Crusades of the Military Order of Christ, the Military Order of Avis, the Order of the Infant D. Henrique de Portugal, the Order of the Naval Merit of Spain and the Order of the Military Merit of Spain, the Grand Officer of the Order of the Naval Merit of Brazil and the Commander of the Order of the United States Merit Law and the National Order of the Legion of Honor of France. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, decided to demonstrate its deep regret and dismay at the death of Admiral Vieira Matias and to present to the family his sympathies. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u150	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH and IL and non-registered BE and MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We now move on to the Vote Project No 260 / XIV / 1. a ( presented by the PSD ) — regretting the death of Admiral Vieira Matias, who will be read by Mrs Olga Silvestre.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u151	Mr. President and Mr. Members, it is of the following content: « He died last June 13th, at 80 years of age, Admiral Vieira Matias. Born in Porto de Mós, on 9 June 1939, and son of João Matias, founder of the Jornal O Portomosense, Nuno Gonçalo Vieira Matias graduated in naval military sciences at the Naval School in 1961, and attended a dozen courses in NATO countries, including the promotion of Admiral, at Naval War College, in the United States of America, in the academic year 1988 / 89. In his military career he emphasizes having served in Angola, from 1961 to 1963, and in Guinea, as Commander of the Detachment of Special Soldiers, from 1968 to 1970 ; having been Commander of the Air Force of Fuziers, Commander of the ports of Portimão and Lagos, Commander of the ship of the Portuguese Republic João Belo, Head of Division of the Military Staff and still Professor of the Naval Institute of War. As Admiral, he was Deputy Chief of the Army Staff, Superintendent of Material Services, Naval Commander in accumulation with Commander-in-Chief Ibrian Atlantic Area of NATO, ending with a career of enormous prestige in the position of Chief of Army Staff, from 1997 to 2002. Admiral Vieira Matias was also a member of the Strategic Committee of the Oceans, of the European Security Research Advisory Board, President of the Supreme Council of the League of Combatants, President of the Marine Academy, Member of the Lisbon Academy of Sciences and of the Portuguese Academy of History, Member of the Council of Honor of the ISCSP, President of the Supreme Council of the Historical Society of Independence of Portugal and Vice President of the Society of Geography of Lisbon. Vieira Matias was thanked with dozens of national and foreign decorations, highlighting the Great Crusades of the Military Order of Christ, the Military Order of Avis, the Order of the Infant D. Henrique de Portugal, the Order of the Naval Merit of Spain and the Order of the Military Merit of Spain, the Grand Officer of the Order of the Naval Merit of Brazil and the Commander of the Order of the Order of the Merit of the United States and the National Order of the Legion of Honor of France. Considered by his peers as ‘one of the most remarkable contemporary leaders and military with a brilliant career’, Admiral Vieira Matias was also a remarkable researcher and academic in the area of sea study and its enormous potential. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, demonstrates its deepest regret and dismay at the death of Admiral Vieira Matias and presents his condolences to his family. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u152	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH and IL and non-registered BE and MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We still have to vote for the Vote Project No 262 / XIV / 1. a ( submitted by the PS ) — I regret the death of Manuel Cintra, who will be read by Mrs Edite Estrela.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u153	Mr. President and Mr. Members, it is of the following content: « On June 4, 2020 the poet Manuel Cintra died. Son of the linguist Luís Filipe Lindley Cintra and brother of the actor, stager and founder of Cornucopia, Luís Miguel Cintra, and singer Deniz Cintra, Manuel Cintra was born in Lisbon on 1 March 1956. Although he was better known as a poet — he himself claimed to have been born a poet — Manuel Cintra was also a performer, actor, translator, and journalist. In 1981 he published his first book of poems, of the Inside Side, in the collection Form, of the publisher Presence, having followed more than twenty poetry books, many of which poems in prose. In 1986 he published, in editor Ulmeiro, Silk, who, according to friend and writer Maria Quintans, was considered by him ‘ the poem already ready, almost without corrections. ’ In 2014, he published his only novel, Parto, and in 2017, the publisher Guilhotina published his complete poetry with the title Manobra Incompletea. In 1984, he debuted in the theatrical behaviors as a stagemaker, actor and cenographer of the show The Diário au Mado, from the same work as Gogol. He also made incursions through the cinema, having participated in films such as Le Soulier de Satin, Manoel de Oliveira, and Ruy Blas, by Jacques Weber. He translated many literary works by authors such as Stevenson, Mircea Eliase, Truman Capote, Maurice Pons, Zadie Smith, Michael Crichton, Jhumpa Lahiri, Chitra Banerjee Divakaruni, Donna Tartt, Tom McCarthy or Kitty Fitzgerald for publishers such as D. Quixote, the Presence and the Print. He worked as a journalist in the main Portuguese newspapers, notably in the Diário de Lisboa, the Expresso, the Diário de Noticias, the Semanário and the Sete. Luís Miguel Cintra, quoted by the Public, recalls how ‘an important period’ of the brother’s life the time he lived with the composer and pianist Constance Capdeville, who died in 1992, with whom he created the artistic project Words by Inside in 1988. Thus, meeting in plenary session, the Assembly of the Republic notes with sadness the death of Manuel Cintra, transmitting to his four children, to his brother Luís Miguel Cintra, to his family and friends, the most significant grief. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u154	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, following the draft votes we have just adopted, we will keep a minute of silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] Mrs. Members, we follow the vote on draft resolution No 520 / XIV / 1. a ( PAR) — Movement of the President of the Republic to Badajoz. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We will vote for the Bill of Deliberation No. 8 / XIV / 1. a ( PAR ) — Extension of the normal period of operation of the Assembly of the Republic. [[The vote was taken in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH and IL and the non-registered member Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We now vote on Parliamentary Inquiry No 3 / XIV / 1. a ( CH) — Establishment of a parliamentary committee of inquiry to the procedures for the acquisition of personal protective equipment in the context of the fight against COVID-19. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, doPSD, doBE, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected, votes against the PAN and the CH and the IL.]] We will vote for draft resolution No 478 / XIV / 1. a (BE) — Construction of a health centre in Feijó.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u155	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u156	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u157	Mr President, it was to place the joint vote of all draft resolutions on the Feijó health centre to the consideration of the remaining banks.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u158	There are three draft resolutions. I wonder if anyone is opposed to the vote as a whole. [[Pause.]] The Bureau has indicated that the PS opposes the joint vote on the three draft resolutions, so we will vote on them separately. So we will generally vote on Resolution No. 478 / XIV / 1. a (BE) — Construction of a health centre in Feijó. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PSD, the BE, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the NAP, the ENP, the CH, the IL and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and the PS abstention.]] We now vote in general on Resolution No. 485 / XIV / 1. a (PEV) — For the construction of a health centre in Feijó - Almada. [[Submitted to the vote, it was approved, with votes in favour of PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL, non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and PS Deputies Catarina Marcelino, Clarisse Campos, Eurídice Pereira, Filipe Pacheco and Sofia Araújo and the PS abstention.]] We will generally vote on draft resolution No 487 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recommends to the Government the construction of a health centre in Feijó, district of Almada, Setúbal district. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PSD, the BE, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the NAP, the ENP, the CH, the IL and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and the PS abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u159	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u160	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u161	Mr President, it is to inform the Bureau that, with regard to the vote on these three draft resolutions, the PSD will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u162	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u163	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u164	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u165	Mr President, it is also to inform the Bureau that I and the Members Catarina Marcelino, Clarisse Campos, Eurídice Pereira and Sofia Araújo will present a statement of vote on these last three projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u166	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We will now vote on a request submitted by BE, requesting the discharge to the Committee on Public Administration, Administrative Modernization, Decentralization and Local Power, without a 30-day vote of Bill No 405 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Alter the Decree-Law No. 71 / 2019 of May 27, in order to ensure a fairer transition to the category of specialist nurse by nurses who have performed or perform leadership or head. I wonder if we can vote on the request I have just made together with the requirements submitted by the CDS-PP and BE.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u167	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u168	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u169	Mr President, it is to inform that the CFP also submitted two requests, one relating to Bill No 406 / XIV / 1. a and other related to Bill No 407 / XIV / 1. a. I suggest that all these demands be voted on together if there is agreement.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u170	I ask the Left Block if, in relation to the Bill No. 405 / XIV / 1. a, submitted a request.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u171	Yes, Mr. President,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u172	All right.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u173	...but the NAP requirement is missing.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u174	Therefore, with no objection, we shall vote jointly, demands, submitted by the authors of their diplomas, requesting the discharge to the Committee on Public Administration, Administrative Modernization, Decentralization and Local Power, without voting for 30 days of Bill No. 405 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Alter the Decree-Law No. 71 / 2019 of May 27, in order to ensure a fairer transition to the category of specialist nurse by nurses who have performed or perform leadership or head office, 447 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Alter the regime of the special nursing career, as well as the nursing career regime in public business entities and health partnerships ( third amendment to Decree-Law No 247 / 2009 of 22 September 2009 and third amendment to Decree-Law No 248 / 2009 of 22 September ), 403 / XIV / 1. a (BE) — Change the regime of the special nursing career, in order to ensure pay positions and career progressions more fair and consistent with the recognition that nursing professionals deserve, 407 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Identification of nursing career ( first amendment to Decree-Law No 71 / 2019 of 27 May, third amendment to Decree-Law No 247 / 2009 of 22 September, and third amendment to Decree-Law No 248 / 2009 of 22 September ) and 406 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Consideration of all points for the purposes of defrosting careers and the Resolution Project No 516 / XIV / 1. a (PA) — For the valorization and dignity of nurses in Portugal. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] Let's vote the 1st. the Supplementary Budget of the Assembly of the Republic for 2020. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MPJoacine Katar Moreira, the vote against the CH and the abstention from the IL.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 401 / XIV / 1. a (BE) — Extraordinary investment in small publishers and self-employed bookstores in response to the economic crisis. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP and IL and votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected.]] We will vote for draft resolution No 497 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recommends that the Government extend support to publishers and bookstores in the context resulting from the contingencies created by the COVID-19 pandemic. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes in favour of PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered MPJoacine Katar Moreira, votes against PS and IL and the CDS-PP abstention.]] The vote on draft resolution No 461 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Social and economic emergency plan for the Algarve. [[Submitted to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered MPJoacine Katar Moreira, votes against PS and IL, and abstentions from the CDS-PP and PS's Deputies Ana Passos, Célia Paz, Francisco Pereira Oliveira, Luís Graça and Maria Joaquina Matos.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u175	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u176	Do you ask for the floor to what effect, Mr?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u177	Mr President, it is to announce to the House that I and the Members Ana Passos, Francisco Oliveira, Célia Paz and Maria Joaquina Matos will present a statement of vote on the last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u178	Be registered.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u179	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u180	Mr. João Almeida, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u181	Mr President, it is to be announced that the CDS Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on the last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u182	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 439 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Incentive on active modes of transport during and after the pandemic period for the protection of the environment and the public space. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected in favour of the EPC, the CFP, the NAP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and CDS-PP, the CH and the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u183	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u184	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u185	Mr President, it is to announce a statement of vote on the last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u186	Be registered. We turn to the general vote on draft resolution No 448 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government promote active means of transport during and after the crisis of COVID-19. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstentions of the PSD, the CDS-PP, the CH and the IL.]] We will generally vote on draft resolution No 452 / XIV / 1. a (PV) — Guarantee to increase the supply of public transport at a time of defination and speeding up the implementation of the national strategy for the use of bicycle. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MPJoacine Katar Moreira, the votes against the PS, the CH and the IL and the abstention from the CDS-PP.]] Then we vote on draft resolution No 476 / XIV / 1. a ( Nsc. ) — Recommends that the Government increase the supply of public transport and implement an urgent plan to stimulate active mobility. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and IL were rejected in favour of the NAP and the non-registered MPJoacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, ENP and CH.]] We are going to vote, in general, on draft resolution No 499 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends the Government to encourage the planning of mobility and urbanism, during and after COVID, for the resilience of Portuguese towns and cities. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN, IL and non-registered MPJoacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PCP and abstentions from the ENP and CH.]] We turn to the general vote on draft resolution No 505 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen State incentives for the use of bicycles. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN and non-registered MPJoacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PCP and ENP and abstentions from CH and IL.]] Mrs. Members, having no objection, we shall vote together on requests submitted by the authors of their diplomas, without a 30-day vote to the Committee on Economics, Innovation, Public Works and Housing, of the Draft Resolution No 393 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Extraordinary programme of economic and social recovery for the city of Ovar for the COVID-19 pandemic and, to the Committee on Labour and Social Security, for Resolution Projects Nos 403 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of exceptional social support and economic recovery measures for the city of Ovar, relating to the epidemiological situation of the new coronavirus — COVID-19 and 413 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Specific support for the Ovar Council under the exceptional and temporary measures relating to the epidemiological situation of COVID-19. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] We shall vote in a global final vote on the final text submitted by the Committee on Culture and Communication on draft resolutions Nos 138 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends to the Government the urgent regulation of Law No 20 / 2019 of 22 February, which provides for the strengthening of the protection of animals used in circuses, and 227 / XIV / 1. a (BE) — Recommends that the Government inevitably regulate animal legislation in circuses. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and the CDS-PP abstention.]] The final overall vote of the final text, presented by the Committee on the Environment, Energy and Planning of the Territory, on draft resolutions Nos 305 / XIV / 1. a (PEV) — Privilege the policy of the three rr to the detriment of end-of-line solutions, 431 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government ensure the quality of service of landfills in Portugal and 463 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government promote a broad assessment of urban waste management systems throughout the country, with a view to correcting the inconsistencies that compromise and may compromise the efficiency of the sector and the quality of life of the populations. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We move on to the final overall vote of the final text presented by the Committee on the Environment, Energy and Planning of the Territory on draft resolutions No 436 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government take the defence measures of the river Tejo and 451 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends to the Government measures to defend the sustainability of the river Tejo and complies with the Resolution of AR No 63 / 2019. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PSD, CDS-PP, PAN, CH and IL and with abstains from BE, PCP, PEV and non-registered MPJoacine Katar Moreira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u187	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u188	You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u189	Mr President, it is to indicate that we will deliver a written statement of vote on the last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u190	Mr. Deputy, it's registered. We shall vote in a global final vote on the final text submitted by the Health Committee on draft resolutions Nos 22 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends that the Government take measures to improve living conditions and access to health care by people with inflammatory bowel disease, 36 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends to the Government measures to minimize the impact of inflammatory bowel diseases on the lives of these patients, 44 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government adopt measures to increase accessibility to health care and improve the quality of life of people with inflammatory bowel diseases and 50 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen support measures for patients with inflammatory bowel disease. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, announce that the next plenary session will be on Wednesday, 24, for the 15 hours, for discussion, by marking BE, of your Bill No. 449 / XIV / 1. a — Sets a maximum number of students per class in the school year 2020 / 2021 in pre-school education and in basic and secondary education due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The debate on this initiative will eventually be followed by a vote if the requesting parliamentary group so wishes. Before we close the work, I give the floor to Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha to make an announcement.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u191	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to note that you were present at this meeting by video conference, the Socialist Party Member Paulo Pisco, the circle of Europe, and the Members of Parliament. PSD Members Sara Madruga da Costa and Sérgio Marques, both from Madeira's Autonomous Region.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-19.u192	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this is how our work is completed for today. See you next Wednesday. I wish everyone a good weekend. The session is closed. [[It was 13 hours and 19 minutes.]]
