ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 7 minutes.]] Before we begin our work, I ask Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha to read the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good afternoon to all and to all. They entered the Bureau, and were admitted, Law Projects No. 512 / XIV / 2. a ( BE), 514 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), 515 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), 516 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ), 517 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), 518 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) and 519 / XIV / 2. a ( Nsc. ) Could not connect with command "%s": %s. They also entered the Bureau, and were admitted, Parliamentary Assessments Nos. 29 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) and 30 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) and Parliamentary Inquiry No 7 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ). Resolution Projects Nos 632 / XIV / 2 were also accepted. a ( PSD ), 633 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ), 634 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ), 635 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ), 636 / XIV / 2. a ( BE), 637 / XIV / 2. a (PEV), 639 / XIV / 2. a (PEV), 640 / XIV / 2. a ( PAR), 641 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) and 642 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN). Finally, the Deliberation Project No. 10 / XIV / 2 was accepted. a ( PAR). I'm done, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u3	Thank you very much, Secretary Maria da Luz Rosinha. I take this opportunity to congratulate the members of the Government, the Prime Minister and all Ministers and State Secretaries present. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, let us start the agenda with the thematic debate requested by the Government under Article 73. the Rules of Procedure, on strategic vision for the economic recovery plan of Portugal 2020 - 2030. You have the floor, then, to open this debate, Mr Prime Minister. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we are faced with a triple challenge: to control the pandemic, to recover from the economic and social crisis that the COVID-19 has generated and to ensure that, with recovery, we build a more robust future, with fewer inequalities, more prosperous, more cohesion and more sustainable. These challenges are not exhausted in the emergence of public health or in the urgent need to protect incomes, jobs and businesses. We need to be more demanding, looking in the medium and long term. Recovery can't mean going back to where we were in February this year. Recovery must allow us to speed up the future. We need to get out of this stronger crisis, with more efficient public services, more capitalised and productive companies, more skilled employment and better wages. It is therefore essential that we have a strategic vision with a lasting horizon, which is a guiding guide to public policies and an inspiring framework for economic actors, the scientific community, the social sector and citizenship. The work carried out by Prof. António Costa Silva offers us, in its 10 axes of action, a solid and ambitious basis to face the challenge of recovery with eyes placed in the future. Now, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is up to us to implement this vision, ensuring the stability of structural options and the coherence between successive policy instruments that we will have to adopt over the decade. And here I again call on the political forces represented in this House, the social partners, the autonomous regions and the local authorities to which they contribute, because overcoming this crisis is a plan that should unite us all. The first of these instruments is the recovery and resilience programme, which must strengthen our social, economic and territorial strength, accelerate the dual digital and climate transition and respect the specific recommendations for Portugal, formulated in the European semesters of 2019 and 2020. The first priority we have to take is necessarily to respond to the social vulnerabilities that the health crisis most highlighted: continue to strengthen the SNS (National Health Service ) ; improve social responses to older people; respond to various housing deficiencies; integrate the exclusion territories that break the metropolitan areas of Lisbon and Porto. The second priority is to increase our productive potential by investing in qualifications, modernizing vocational education to lifelong learning and increasing the number and diversification of students attending higher education; strengthening the interface between science and productive tissue, industry, services or agriculture; promoting a set of mobilization agendas that support reindustrialization and conversion into strategic sectors for our integration into value chains at global level. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The third priority is to ensure a more competitive, externally, and more cohesive territory internally. Here, the great investment effort will be structured between forest reform and modernization of areas of business location and their accessibility. It will also establish the strengthening of cross-border links that are essential to the affirmation of the centrality of our internal market as a whole. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It will also promote greater water efficiency in critical regions such as Algarve or Alentejo. These three priorities, in response to social vulnerabilities, the need for greater competitiveness and territorial cohesion and increased productive potential, reinforce each other and have important synergies with the acceleration of digital and climate transitions: investment in sustainable mobility, especially in rail, strengthens territorial cohesion; the decarbonisation of the economy and energy efficiency improve the income of families and the competitiveness of businesses; the digitalisation of the Public Administration is crucial for reducing the costs of context; and the digitalization of our schools ensures equal opportunities in future school, without leaving any student behind. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, this is a programme that counts and must have the active participation of the authorities, companies, the academy, the social sector. Only in this decentralized partnership will we achieve the essential efficiency for the full use of the extraordinary resources available to us. The proper use of these resources also requires a great effort to train management entities and, at the same time, maximum transparency in the application of the funds and the minimum bureaucracy in their management.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u5	Mr Prime Minister, you have already exceeded your time widely, so discounting-CL will be that time, then, in the time of the government.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u6	I will now finish, Mr President. This is certainly the biggest crisis any of us had to face in a framework of uncertainty. It is true that the duration of the pandemic is still uncertain, but on the other hand, it is true that all Portuguese are determined to persevere in their struggle and in the way of recovery. This is the moment when, with all our energy, we have to focus on facing and overcoming the triple challenge we face: controlling the pandemic, recovering Portugal, taking care of the future. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u7	We will enter the second stage of the debate. Mr Rui Rio of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u8	Mr President, Prime Minister : What the country should want with this recovery plan is certainly responding to some short-term needs, but basically preparing the country for the future and for the long-term. To prepare the country for the future and for the long term means, in practice, to ensure that in the future there are better jobs, better wages and that the Portuguese can live better than they live today. For this, the priority must be given to companies. It is the companies that make investment, create employment and transform the overall competitiveness of the Portuguese economy. It is within this objective that I hear the Government say that it intends to make a very significant increase in the national minimum wage by 2020. I have always been because of the increase in the national minimum wage in a framework where unemployment is low and where the economy is growing, but in a moment where unemployment is huge and the economy is falling, in which we have great health uncertainty and where inflation is null or even negative, not causing erosion of the purchasing power of wages, my question is: what is the government's objective in increasing the national minimum wage? Promoting more unemployment? Increase failures further? To worsen the costs of companies that today have virtually no sales and have no revenue? It reminds me, a few years ago, when a PS government, chaired by Eng. Socrates, increased public servants by 2, 9 % without having the right to do so and then had to cut by 5 %, 6 %, 7 %, 10 % these same wages! [[PSD applause.]] It's not nice to say what I'm saying. It does not give a vote to say what I am saying, but, on behalf of those who want to defend, who are precisely the most disadvantaged, I would ask whether it is sensible, in this framework, and now to increase the costs of companies in this way. [[PSD applause.]] The second question I wanted to ask you has to do with the European Union's money, which is almost EUR 60 billion by 2027. Of this money, half — 28 billion — must be recorded and largely used in the coming years. It's a lot of money and for very little time. Portugal has very high rates of corruption and the fight against corruption in Portugal is, frankly, ineffective. [[PSD applause.]] So my fear, and I think that the fear of all Portuguese people, is that part of this money will stop the wrong handbags: facilitators, dishonest entrepreneurs, corrupt public agents, all this is in our imagination. My question is this: is Mr Prime Minister in agreement with this concern? If he's not, we've got a deep difference here. If you have this concern, my question is whether the government already has any idea how it will prevent this wave of potential corruption from so much money in so little time. I leave some ideas: an observatory dedicated to this matter, an aggravated criminal law for this purpose, a special department of the PGR ( Attorney-General's Office of the Republic), or all this as a whole, all this and something else. My question, of course, is this: does the government have any idea how it will prevent potential corruption in the use of European Union money? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u9	Mrs Ana Catarina Mendonça Mendes of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: My first word is to greet the government, not only because we have heard all the parties about the great challenges for the country in the next 10 years, after this pandemic crisis, and even without knowing exactly its economic and social effects, but also to welcome the existence of this debate. The only thing we were not expecting at the beginning of the debate is that Mr Rui Rio could recover the arguments that were given in 2015, precisely by his bench, about the « daddy» of the increase in minimum wage, the increase in people's incomes or the return of social rights to people,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ...as if that were to prevent the growth of the economy. We can stop the time and think that only the last six months are counting on the History of Portugal, but the truth is that since 2015 we have not only increased the national minimum wage four times as we return income to Portuguese, we pay back salaries, we have improved public accounts and we have lowered unemployment — in February this year we have reached the lowest unemployment rate ever—...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u11	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u12	... and the gentlemen. Members believe that the big problem will be that we can increase the national minimum wage again in 2021. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is even the contribution that I was not expecting to come from the PSD, but, finally, it makes fair to its history. But, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Prime Minister, on behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, what I would like to stress, within the various things that this plan involves, is truly the strengthening of the social state. It is that if there is something that history also proves us, and proved in the management of these months of pandemic and health crisis, it is that truly a strong social state is capable of giving the necessary answers in health, in public school, in the social protection of all citizens. We therefore welcome the inclusion in this recovery and resilience programme as a significant factor in strengthening not only the National Health Service but also housing policies—and we know how this crisis, with its vulnerabilities, has exposed a set of inequalities, and housing is absolutely essential for all citizens—the social protection and strengthening of our National Health Service. And, Prime Minister, allow me to have health, to you and to the government, for the attentive look of the older, those who have worked their whole lives in our society, because this plan has a programme that seems absolutely essential to us, which is the investment in the National Network of Integrated Continued Care, to give dignity to those who are in the end of life. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is for all of this, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, that the Parliamentary Group is here, not for the programme to respond and give us back the situation we were in before the COVID-19, but so that we can tell our children, our grandchildren, that there is a future in Portugal, in more developed Portugal, more cohesion and more solidarity. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u13	It is the turn of the Parliamentary Group of the CFP and Mr Jerónimo de Sousa to have the floor for an intervention. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u14	Mr President, Prime Minister : The epidemic has made the country's structural problems even more visible and has added new challenges that need a response. It is not possible to meet the needs of the workers, the people and the country without a break with the policy that has put us in this situation. Portugal must fight to ensure that the Community funds which are being made available are integrated into a national development strategy. It must be the national priorities, not the European Union's taxes, which must determine where Community funds go. These funds must respond to the country's priorities and needs rather than be diverted to the economic groups, as has happened in the past. On the question of wages, as well described here by Mr Rui Rio, who said that he would lose votes, which he did not win, I would say: alas he does not gain, particularly of the great capital that is waiting for these funds to fill the pockets at the expense of the workers,... [[PCP and PEV applause.]] ...as happened in the past, secondarying thousands of micro, small and medium-sized companies that have under their heads the knife of bankruptcy. As we have already had the opportunity to say, there are three issues that we consider central. First: a policy for the recovery of wages and the rights of workers and the incomes of the popular layers is needed in order to achieve economic recovery; Second: to dynamize the economy it is necessary to regain public control of companies and strategic sectors; Thirdly, a policy is needed to create jobs, from the exploitation of productive sectors and national production, but also by strengthening public employment, particularly with investment in public services, health, education, social security and so many other areas where needs and difficulties exist. In the proposal submitted by the Government we find no answer to these questions. In many respects, the government's plan maintains the policy options and guidelines that have weakened our country over the years. Mr Prime Minister, the development of the country and the response to the crisis require the increase of wages, including the national minimum wage, to demand the enhancement of workers' rights, to fight the deregulation of working hours. It is because the life of recent years has proved irrefutable proof that the value of wages is a beautiful contribution to economic development and, at the same time, to the progression of the internal market itself. [[Congrats from PCP MP João Oliveira.]] These options have to be translated, in concrete terms, at the end of wage cuts and at the prohibition of redundancies, whether or not there is profit. They have to translate into the general increase in wages, including the minimum wage and wages of employees of the Public Administration, in the payment of the benefit of risk, penosity and insanity. They have to translate into the revocation of hourly banks and it was important to know whether the government would take steps to achieve this. With regard to the recovery of public control of strategic sectors, urgent measures need to be taken. We are talking, among other things, about the recovery of the control of the Portuguese Post Offices, whose concession contract ends at the end of the year ; the recovery of the public control of the New Bank, which must be put to the service of the country and the national economy ; the guarantee of the future of the Portuguese Air Transport Office ; and the recovery of the control of national airports, including in order to unlock the construction of the future airport. What options will the government take? What about employment and public services? It is necessary to create jobs by channelling investment for the productive sectors and national production, creating wealth and jobs from the productive potentials we have in the country and whose use depends only on national decision. Public services, which have given an invaluable response to the needs of the people in these difficult times, need investment, workers and conditions that allow them to fully fulfil the irreplaceable role they have in the lives of their users. In health there is a need to invest in buildings and equipment, it is necessary to strengthen professionals, it is necessary to recover the scheduled activity of hospitals but also health centers, ensuring that users do not wait for rain and cold, piled up to the door. Also in public school it is necessary to hire professionals who need and guarantee schools the means and conditions necessary for education to meet its social justice objectives. There are not only 1500 assistants in our schools, they will be less than 5000, and they must be hired and properly integrated in the life of schools, with long-term prospects and not only for a period or a school year.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u15	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u16	The same with regard to teachers and technicians, to whom work conditions must be given which guarantee the safety, tranquility and trust necessary for the functions they perform. Strengthening the funds and measures of school social action is another indispensable aspect in ensuring equality in access to education. As regards social protection, it is now essential to ensure support for those who have lost their jobs, wages or have fallen into a situation of poverty or social exclusion. It is necessary to advance in the creation of a public network of elderly households and in the hiring of workers for social security to strengthen social equipment in order to ensure adequate conditions of response, whether at home, at day care homes and kindergartens, in institutions dedicated to people with disabilities or others. It is necessary to invest in the expansion of the free of charge of day care centres, the creation of a public network in transport, housing, security forces and services, justice and so many other areas. Public investment and the hiring of workers are options that must be taken according to the needs of the people and the country, even against the winds and tides of the deficit rules imposed by the European Union. Is the Government willing to take these options or not? The answer to this question must be given with concrete measures and action, it cannot be left to abstract commitments of ever dubious realisation and much less with pressures and threats of political crisis. For us, we will make our contribution with concrete proposals that have as reference and aim to improve the living conditions of all Portuguese. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u17	It is the turn of the Left Block Parliamentary Group. Mrs Catarina Martins has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u18	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This is a debate that has two peculiarities, the first one that marks the end of the 15-year debate. We are now in a model in which PS and PSD have associated themselves to reduce the vote on the government and, instead of asking questions on current issues, we have a series of interventions on a pre-defined topic. The pre-defined theme, in this case, is to debate the general lines of a programme to use any European money, which is not yet known whether or not we will have, because, as you know, the European Councils have always been delaying decisions. That is why, Mr President, without the Block of the Left, I am going to devote myself to the urgency of the country in this debate, which is also important. Mr. Prime Minister, the Minister of Health said today that there were more doctors in the National Health Service. That's not what's on the National Health Service portal. In fact, during the pandemic, the number of SNS doctors fell. Compared to January, we had fewer than 130 career doctors and less than 452 inmates in July. There are even fewer doctors in the SNS. The waiting lists for consultations or surgeries increase, there are more users without a family doctor and many health professionals are absolutely exhausted. Only in the summer months did more than six and a half million extraordinary hours. We will, predictably, have more pressure in the National Health Service, but because the pandemic crisis is also an economic and social crisis, we will also have a wave of layoffs and rising unemployment. In July, people in unemployment were already over 600,000; of these, about 400,000 are without access to unemployment benefit, including social unemployment benefit. Several organizations in the field have noted that poverty is firing, with increasing demands for food support, and it is not even guaranteed the prohibition of cutting access to essential goods, at least by the end of the year. I hear in this debate that the Socialist Party is talking about any future support for the elderly, but I remember that the government has not yet implemented the measure that was planned in the State Budget for 2020 to withdraw the children from the calculation of 3. the step to access to the solidarity complement for the elderly, a measure that is so important to support the poorest elderly in our country. So far, all we know about the government's intentions, in addition to the investment plan with European funds, which are not yet true, is that it intends to continue to guarantee the financing of the New Bank's losses, even knowing that Lone Star may be wrong. And not the little we already know about the losses of the New Bank and which is in the audit that has been done, even if incomplete, will be fully disclosed, because PS and PSD joined together this morning to keep the secret. As long as the financial system continues to be protected, the Government is slow to comply with what it agreed with the Left Block in the State Budget for 2020 to protect the National Health Service. And if there is urgency, it is even the hiring of health professionals. The State budget for 2020 provided more than 8400 professionals employed in 2020 and 2021. That is, this year should have been hired permanently, plus 4200 workers for the National Health Service, in addition to contracts due to replace reforms or extraordinary peak situations. However, these contracts, which clearly increased the number of workers in the SNS, were simply not made. The doctor's case, I repeat, is blatant. This year, and the moment I needed it most, the SNS lost almost 600 doctors. And it's not that they don't exist, there's 1,000 doctors waiting for a speciality strike. But having finally opened competitions, the vacancies have not been reinforced, nor have they been hired more doctors. The case of the other health professionals does not rest with us either. It is true that some 4000 workers, essentially nurses and operational assistants were hired to respond to COVID. And how necessary are in the National Health Service! Only that contracts are precarious and the hiring of about 3000 professionals provided for in the stabilization programme continues to stop at the Ministry of Finance. The professionals that the SNS needs cannot be hired from four to four months, the National Health Service needs to organize and require final contracting. SNS professionals who are in the front line every day are exhausted and at the same time the population waits and despairs for delayed consultations, examinations and surgeries. It is only that the Government is not implementing the strengthening of the National Health Service, which has already been approved in both the State Budget for 2020 and the Supplementary Budget. Mr. Prime Minister, the Left Block wants to discuss solutions, solutions for the country, robust support for those who lose jobs, wages, income. We have already made public our proposals: to strengthen unemployment benefit and social unemployment benefit; to create the social income of citizenship, to respond to the brutal loss of income of the most precarious people — temporary, micro-enterprises, self-employed, among others. No one can get below the poverty line in the middle of the pandemic crisis. We have put forward proposals to protect employment, placing as a condition of public support to companies not only the maintenance of effective workers but also the extension of precarious contracts; the prohibition, during this extraordinary and so difficult period, of lay-offs, both in support companies and profit-making companies; and the strengthening of the legal protection of workers, as in Spain, is already being done. How can we debate support for the economy without guaranteeing mechanisms to protect employment, wage? For the Left Block it is clear: we want more support for the economy and we want to discuss its criteria. And the first of these criteria must be employment and wage, because if not, all plans that are presented and discussed can well be used to fill the pockets of some but do not reach those who count, who live from their work. We want, of course, to guarantee essential public services, health, of course, and, to be credible, to meet what has been budgeted: 8400 new contracts. Mr Prime Minister, we are one of the biggest crises we have in mind and in the Left Block we do not know the enormous difficulty that the crisis poses to the state and administrations, but we are just over two weeks away from the government's delivery of its budget proposal and nothing is known. The Left Block is here for consistent and true measures. The time for this work is short. We need to discuss, yes, the long term, but to do so we need to solve emergencies, we need to work on solutions for the country. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u19	To speak in the debate, Mrs Cecilia Meireles of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u20	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the Prime Minister, Mr President. Ministers and other government members. in this new phase which we are launching in this legislative session, where Mr Prime Minister is moving here only to deal with very important issues for our future, I would like to begin by telling him that this subject of the recovery plan is indeed very important for our future. I do not think that "important" is synonymous with big, grandoquent phrases, but, with all honesty, quite empty. Therefore, Prime Minister, I would like to begin by asking you a question about what I would call a 'practical case', a practical test, let us say so. I listened carefully to him and said that the future must be accelerated. We spoke here of leaving Portugal better for our children and I heard last week announce a measure that seemed to me the opposite because, speaking in the future, I think it makes sense to talk about credit and debt. Basically, debts are what we have not resolved now and we have left for the future and Mr Prime Minister knows, of course, that there are many companies in Portugal, especially smaller, weaker companies from the point of view of their treasury, which have not only seen their business stop as they have not yet seen him recover and know that they have, in the coming months, the end of some moratoriums, the end of fractional payments to social security, the end of fractional payments to taxes, the end of fiscal moratoriums and simply realize that they will not have any money for this. So the government remembered to launch a measure — I just hope this news is false, Mr Prime Minister, because absurdly it is, of course, the following: « Government creates line of credit to finance tax payments ». In other words, the government knows that there are companies that do not have cash—translation, do not have money—to pay taxes, they certainly do not have money to pay taxes and wages, and then the conclusion that the government withdraws from there is not that there are more taxes, it is not that they need moratoriums or new tax fractions, the conclusion that it takes to tell companies: « They will finance themselves with the bank; they will pay interest to the banks, because the state has to receive and already! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” He even says: « It is better to pay interest to banks because the interest that the State charges you for delays is greater than the interest that banks charge you ». Mr Prime Minister, come to speak in the future on strategic axes and then fail to something so essential, so basic, and think it is normal or reasonable to say to a liberal professional: 'He divides himself to pay his taxes' or 'he divides himself to be able to apply for a fund', is indeed living beyond reality. I find it very difficult to tell a liberal professional: "You don't have money to pay your taxes? Go in debt to the bank and then leave the account for your children to pay! At the same time, he says that there is a great plan with goals and dynamisms about the future. It is this practical case that I wanted to leave it and now I wanted to ask you a very specific question. There is a solution to this, which is a surgical drop of some taxes, especially those that have to do with advances to the state or a new moratorium. And, speaking of the future—until Mr Prime Minister has said, and I agree with you, that this money must arrive quickly and be well executed—that this measure, which, in fact, is not to give money, is not to take away, has a huge advantage: it is of simple execution and it is virtually automatic, there are no employees, there are no necessary choices, there is no need for anything. It is only necessary to be willing and assume that, in fact, the State cannot charge people so much, because they have less income. End point! Secondly, and speaking now of priorities, I would also like to leave this question to you. Mr Prime Minister said: « We should not fall into simplifications between State and business». Mr Prime Minister, we must not, indeed, but who started this discussion on strategic vision as a sort of alternative between an idea contest and a somewhat simplified ideological discussion, was nobody in this Parliament, it was whom Mr Prime Minister hired for this job. Having read the whole strategic vision, I realized that there are 10 priority axes, three blocks and paradigms, mobilization agendas, transitions, conversions, innovations, implementations, qualifications, infrastructures, instruments, variables, triple challenges. There is everything and something else, Prime Minister, less concrete measures! So, Prime Minister, swapping up kids, I'd like to know what we're talking about. And this is the most curious part of this strategy, I will read: « The definition of a governance model that includes a clarification of priorities, timetables and actors involved ». I give you a suggestion here for a model of governance that sets priorities: that Mr Prime Minister should, in fact, say what we are talking about. Are we talking about a list of public works or a concrete difference in our economy? And if so, in what? It's as simple as this. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u21	To speak in the debate, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor of the PAN. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u22	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, other members of the Government : Last year, when we discussed the State budget, we lived a completely different time. At the time, we could not value professionals because we were walking to a budget surplus; thus, we cannot value professionals, we cannot invest in areas as structuring for the country as the National Health Service, education, among others, because we are faced with that which is an unprecedented socio-economic crisis. Mr. Prime Minister, alongside all these crises and needs, there is a crisis that we are still experiencing, the climate crisis, which is quite complex and for which we need more bold measures and concrete action. We must therefore look at this agenda, which thus gives us the opportunity for a more progressive vision for a sustainable agenda, which is what the country needs, particularly in its structural options. on the contrary, we find that this plan is based on an absolutely obsolete economic model, with an excessive consumption economy logic of resources, services and consumer goods and an unsustainable ecological footprint. This is clear at the level of tourism, for example, where the programme advocates diversification of tourism activity and the need to reduce emissions of transport gases, but it maintains this activity as a structural pillar of the national economy, but does not, however, solve the negative environmental and social impacts of this activity, particularly with regard to job insecurity, housing problems and pressure on cities. It is incomprehensible to deny the conduct of a tourist load study, which continues not to be in the range of measures to be taken in the economic recovery phase. Mr Prime Minister, it seems to us essential that this review be carried out in the plan and, above all, that this study should be conducted. So, of course, one of the first questions that arises is this: when is this study in the tourist area, of which the country so lacks? But apart from contradictions, this plan is marked by a certain ingenuity and lack of ambition. Visible ingenuity in the belief that the extraction of resources on land or sea is compatible with the sustainability of ecosystems, without setting clear red lines in environmental matters. Mr. Prime Minister, the country and the planet need action and also need a disruptive vision. For that reason, we need to know whether the government will be realistic and assume the costs and risks associated with these activities or whether it will make the belief that new technologies are the magic wand that will save ecosystems. However, we do not fail to recognize any kindness in some measures of the Costa Silva plan, in particular to welcome some proposals that converge with the concerns of the NAP for the economic and social transition, such as the wagering on rail, the increase in improvement in public transport, the bet on digitisation, even if late, or the bet on nature tourism, in contrast to that which is the country's excessive dependence on traditional tourism. We also welcome the clarifications provided by Prof. Costa Silva at last week's hearing, in particular by clarifying that it does not advocate mining and natural resources in protected areas, that the Albufeira Convention should be renegotiated, that a tourist load study should be carried out for the country, as the PAN has long proposed, and that the option of locating the new Lisbon airport in Beja, with high-speed rail connection to Lisbon, is a hypothesis that should be studied. Finally, Mr. Prime Minister, we cannot fail to point out that Prof. Costa Silva recognized that the current socio-economic model should be revised in the light of the planetary limits, which is not taken into account in the plan he presented. But, Prime Minister, what we cannot but ask you at this time is whether you will or will not include these concerns in the final document and in the vision you will present to the country. On the other hand, we can also point out some inconsistencies between the narrative and the measures presented. Of course, we have proposals for the circular economy — that is right! — but silence is total in relation to concrete measures to reduce waste production, which is one of the largest environmental scourges in the country and the planet. The plan defends a bet in the processing industry, particularly in the moulds and injection of plastics. However, Prime Minister, how is it possible to bet on plastics and how is this compatible with ocean life? Oh, my God! How is it possible to have such a proposal when the world recognizes that one of the environmental priorities of our time, in defence of the environment and public health, is precisely about combating the use of plastics and microplastics? Oh, my God! The plan also defends a bet in the forest extraction economy, with the integration of furniture chains, cork, paper paste, i.e. basically eucalyptus and pine trees. How does the Government intend to reconcile this commitment with what must necessarily be the fight against climate change, fires, habitat recovery and ecosystems and biodiversity protection? This plan is also totally omitted as regards the need to reduce emissions in the livestock sector. And in this regard, Mr Prime Minister, what we are asking is until we continue to ignore this problem and, above all, to propose for the future of our young people in the current framework, whether at the level of education, whether at the level of employability and safeguarding their rights with regard to the environment, which also remain, in some way, omitted. This plan is still insufficient with regard to the scale of the impact of economic recovery measures on equality between men and women, combating poverty and social exclusion, in particular the oldest population. So, Prime Minister, to conclude, and taking into account that there is also no single measure to combat corruption, transparency in the use of Community funds and the one that can be the citizen's participation, how far is the government available to go?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u23	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u24	I conclude now, Mr President. What we need to know in this debate, Prime Minister, is how we will respond to these great challenges and what bridges the government is available to build, particularly in the context of the concerns of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u25	I now give the floor to Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Greens.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u26	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As the Greens have already had the opportunity to say at the meeting we had with Mr Prime Minister and others. Members of the Government, we fear to be faced with a lost opportunity, and this cannot happen again, especially at a time when the country and the world are faced with a serious public health crisis and with still incalculable impacts both from an economic and social point of view, a crisis that, in fact, has its origin the imbalances that have created in the relationship of man with nature and that has confirmed the great weaknesses of countries and peoples that are subordinate to a globalized model of growth, supported in the loot of nature and social and territorial inequalities. Therefore, more than ever it is necessary to guarantee answers to the needs of the present, until there are many who depend on these answers, but it is also necessary to think about the future, outlining paths of sustainability, in which the economy and production have to walk side by side with the defense of nature and social justice. It follows that, of the suggestions presented by Prof. Costa Silva for the recovery plan of the economy, translated in some way into proposals for funding in the recovery and resilience plan presented by the Government, food sovereignty and the conservation of nature, which are two strategic pillars of the resilience of a country and a people in front of disasters of all sorts, are practically ignored. In fact, the vision and funding presented for the strengthening of productive potential, the cover of research and innovation, are all turned to intensive and agro-industrial agriculture, which, as we know, causes serious environmental impacts, leaving entirely family agriculture, which continues to play a fundamental social and environmental role, particularly as regards combating desertification. Family farming is undoubtedly the one most targeted to guarantee food sovereignty, to seek this food sovereignty, in a balanced, diversified form and in a close relationship with consumers, fundamental issues when we are confronted with pandemics like the one we are living in, but also with the threat of climate change. Therefore, Prime Minister, we do not see in these proposals any funding that will benefit family agriculture and any instrument that can favour food production that has been turned to domestic consumption and to ensure our food sovereignty. What I am asking, Prime Minister, is if we are wrong, if we are seeing the « film». [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u27	Mr Ventura has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u28	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Mr Prime Minister presented to us a recovery and resilience programme in which he spoke of territorial cohesion and it is impressive that, in this territorial cohesion, he did not mention the Algarve only once. The region of the country where unemployment has increased by 200 %, alongside the Lisbon region, does not have a single mention of the Prime Minister, as regards this true national tragedy that is unemployment. But today Mr Prime Minister has to answer something else: why are there two countries in Portugal, the public country and the private country, in which some receive 1, 8 billion and the joint ventures of businesses and families will receive less than half of that value? Oh, my God! They are two countries to please the left, leaving those who pay taxes and who support this country outside its investment cake, simply because they are private sector, social sector or cooperative sector. It is a kind of "save anyone who can, if they can and as they can, because we will not be here to help". But it also brings us a public housing programme, basically saying "don't worry, because the same will always receive the same as usual and those who have spent years paying taxes, to sustain the privileges of those who don't want to do anything at all, now see themselves paying public housing for everyone, cheaper and even, if possible, for free, since we are always here to pay and the middle class is available".
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u29	I ask you to conclude, Mr, because you have exceeded your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u30	I shall conclude by saying that public debt has now reached 133 % of GDP, a historic level that has never been seen before. And I want to ask you...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u31	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u32	I will finish, Mr. President. I would like to ask you, Mr Prime Minister, whether or not we are going to have European taxes to finance these measures.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u33	Mr Maló de Abreu, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u34	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : The numbers of COVID-19 infected, hospitalizations and deaths do not stop increasing, Prime Minister — sadly! — because the spring of propaganda of the Portuguese miracle, with which it was contrived, is not confirmed. Unfortunately! What I seek to take care of is whether you have the notion of how many Portuguese were victims of the pandemic, not because they had contracted COVID, but because they were afraid or because they found the doors of the National Health Service closed, as a result of their policy. It is that the inactivity of the SNS, already lost and then concentrated in the pandemic, has struck in front of all patients, as a tsunami caused by you or sent by you, or authorized by you, or of your knowledge, as Head of Government. And in terms of strategic vision, I ask you: where was the government going when, even in January, the PSD asked for "measures, in view of the possibility of global spread of the new coronavirus", since it only presented the plan on 10 March, that is, more than a month later, when the first cases appeared in Portugal? Oh, my God! Where was the government that we had when we said that the homes could become the great focus, that it did not soon define strong preventive measures, leaving almost the fragile and vulnerable ones of today, the generation that suffered the most and fought the most, because it was in the war, but did it also do April? Oh, my God! Where is the Prime Minister of the promise of a family doctor to all Portuguese in 2017 when, three years later, 1 million of them still despair? Oh, my God! The word given is not an honest word when anyone who can not do what he can and does not do what he should. [[PSD applause.]] Where was the Prime Minister that we have when the government that we have did not regulate compensation for the SNS workers involved in the fight against the pandemic, as the law required it to have done, until a month ago? Oh, my God! Anonymous soldiers from the front line will never forget what they forgot, or not! With regard to strategic vision, he spoke to his former Minister of Health, when he advised to « align political discourse with reality », i.e. to abandon the fantastic narrative of the « country of flying cows », which is the same as « there is someone who governs us ». We have passed through all states — disaster, emergency, contingency — we are now handed over to the state to which this has come! But the PSD's commitment remains, first with Portugal and, exclusively, with the Portuguese, without leaving anyone behind. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u35	Mr Luís Testa of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u36	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I have a number of questions here to ask Mr Prime Minister, but I would like to comment first on the intervention before me. The intervention that preceded me, well written, well articulated, well vocalized, does not pass a myriad on the head of the honourable Member, which is no more than a wish that you would like to see in the lives of all Portuguese. Portugal is a country that has risen every day to fight exactly the state to which this has come. Mr. Prime Minister, Portugal has been an unbalanced country for decades. This imbalance has historical reasons, some deeper than others. The government that you are leading, and which has started functions in the last legislature, has effectively fought some of these asymmetries, but there are others that are more resistant, because deeper. And these, which are more resistant and have deeper roots, have, first, depopulated the interior of the country, then have put pressure on the big cities and have resulted in a difficulty in the overall use of national resources, because the ability to exploit these resources is concentrated in regions contrary to those where these same resources remain in the territory. This plan, which has been brought to us here today, to the Assembly of the Republic, by the Government of the former, clearly strengthens the response which has been given since the beginning of the last legislature and which, more than politics, is an effective response on the ground. If we have an unbalanced country, where, on the one hand, we have strength to transform reality and, on the other hand, we have resources to explore, we need to combine these two realities so that we can use, in its entirety, the resources at our disposal, create value chains, reindustrialize and create competitiveness, in a global way, also using what we call, because it is, within the country. We welcome the effective way this has been addressed, the way this issue has been delimited in political action and, above all, as it has constituted a fundamental pillar in the vision of the future that we have to have for the country. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u37	Mrs Mariana Silva of the Greens has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u38	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister : In the suggestions presented by Prof. Costa Silva for the economic recovery plan of Portugal 2020 - 2030, translated into proposals for funding in the recovery and resilience plan presented by the Government, it is promised the strengthening of the National Health Service and the wagering on the railway. The Greens believe these are areas that really need a lot of resilience. This reinforcement was, for a long time, necessary and many times we called for it. The epidemic has only highlighted the weaknesses of these sectors that are fundamental to the lives of populations and to the development of the country. We'll see if the promised reinforcements aren't just ads and intentions. Therefore, and since we are on the European Mobility Week, it is about the investment in the railway that I would like you to clarify. As part of the presentation of the recovery and resilience plan, it placed the possibility of the acquisition of rolling stock by rail, presented and framed in the proposal for sustainable mobility, budgeted at EUR 975 million, to be financed by another European instrument, the Connecting Europe Facility, and of the funds currently intended for it to be diverted to interventions in the Lisbon and Porto metro. Now, as we know, the Connecting Europe Facility does not allow the acquisition of rolling stock, and this European instrument is intended to finance infrastructure. As such, we would like to be assured today that the acquisition of rolling stock by rail, which is essential for the demographic balance of the territory and for the fair and sustainable development of the country, will be maintained in this plan of recovery and resilience.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u39	Mrs Lara Martinho, from the PS Parliamentary Group, now has the floor to speak for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u40	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Prime Minister : We are facing a colossal challenge, which will only be overcome if we achieve three critical factors of success. The first factor is knowing where we want to go. Fortunately, Mr. Prime Minister opened the future to society with the elaboration of the Strategic Vision by Prof. Costa Silva, with hundreds of contributions, and in complementarity in the Azores, the Regional Government opened the future to society and created the ambitious Agenda for Social and Economic Recovery, with 250 measures to respond to regional specificities. We will therefore have a comprehensive and integrated view of what bets should be for the coming years. It is true that we cannot fully anticipate the future, but it is also before this uncertainty that it is so important to have a plan or an agenda. Mr. Prime Minister, to implement a good strategy, it is also important to have resources. This is the second critical factor of success, the extraordinary result of the negotiation of the new Community funds. In the case of the Azores, the opening of this Government to a reinforcement of almost 100 % of the funds is a clear sign not only of the importance that Mr. Prime Minister and his Government have given to the autonomys but also of the role they can and should play in the recovery and future of our country. We have now, all of us, as Mr Prime Minister has pointed out, the enormous responsibility to make good use of these funds. The third factor is cooperation. Today, more than ever, cooperation is crucial. Only with the involvement of all — central government, regional governments, authorities, companies and institutions — will it be possible to implement this vision and implement these funds. Only with this vision of the future, of cooperation and confidence in the role of autonomy can we ensure that no region remains behind. Only together will we be able to overcome this challenge! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u41	Mr Nuno Fazenda also spoke on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u42	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister and other Members. Members of the Government : Today we are discussing the future to face the greatest crisis ever and never the future depended so much on what collectively we are able to think and plan in the present. The Government has done its work so far: it has successfully managed to obtain the largest package of European funds that there is memory and strategy to make good use of them — and that cannot fail to be recognised. Now, the challenge is to fine-tune the strategy and move from strategy to action. This is a responsibility for all: the government, political parties to generate consensus, institutions and thousands of public and private promoters, who will have to design good projects and execute them within time limits. It is, therefore, a challenge which calls for everyone, which does not exempt anyone. Collectively, we have to give rapid answers to the country. It says the popular saying that «is fast and well there is no one», but in the case of Community funds it will indeed have to be. The country demands and Portugal will have to run two to three times as much per year as in any of the previous Community frameworks. That is precisely why the sense of urgency we live in is that even without having the final approval of the Community fund package by Europe, the Government has come in advance to define a strategy and to act on several critical points to ensure that Community funds are implemented swiftly. I highlight three critical points. First, it has implemented, with positive results, the Simple programme in different areas, including measures in the area of Community funds. Still, without losing rigor and transparency, it is essential to continue to expedite procedures and eliminate bureaucratic barriers. This is a critical point. Secondly, the ongoing decentralization will be essential to promote the proper implementation of Community funds, taking over the CCDRs (coordination and regional development committees) and the inter-municipal entities a key role. Third and lastly, I refer to the training of the Public Administration. The work done by the current structures of Portugal 2020 should be recognised, but now the requirement is much greater. Therefore, the digital transition and recruitment of 1000 senior technicians in the Public Administration are very important measures that are ongoing and must be continued. It is in this sense that I am asking the Prime Minister about the importance of having a rapid implementation of the Community funds, since this will be the critical point to recover Portugal and take care of the future. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u43	Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Antonio Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u44	Mr President, I believe that it is to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u45	Mr Prime Minister, this debate does not have a phase of questions and a stage of interventions. According to the grid, this type of debate has three stages: openness, debate and closure. at this moment, we are at the stage of debate. Mr Prime Minister has entered this stage, so he has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u46	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The first condition for us to be able to make good use of the extraordinary resources, which effectively constitute a gigantic responsibility for our country and which are made available by the European Union, is that we should start by designing this programme well. The reason why the Government has promoted and asked the Assembly of the Republic to hold this debate is to understand and believe that a good programme is the one that counts with everyone's contribution. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr Rui Rio, I cannot fail to tell you that, when we are discussing a programme of this strategic importance for the future of the country, of our businesses, of the new generations, at the level of the deep social needs of our country and the need to increase our productive potential, for me, it is a huge perplexity that you are speaking in this debate without one idea or one proposal for the future. I'm completely puzzled! [[P.S.'s applause.]] The only idea he revealed about the future became implicit in his concern about the national minimum wage. I even thought I heard his predecessor when in 2016 he explained that the increase in the national minimum wage we were going to introduce would destroy job creation, destroy businesses and destroy the economy. What we have demonstrated to your predecessor — and you will surely be here to see too — is that strengthening family income is an essential condition of revitalization of our country's economy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Future companies are not low-wage companies, they are companies that benefit from investment in innovation, companies that will strengthen their capital, companies that will increase their presence in the external market, companies that are being modernised. These are the companies in the future and it is for these companies that this programme looks at, it is not for companies that tell the figures about the increase in the national minimum wage. Those who account for the national minimum wage and even have to have an answer are those who earn the national minimum wage. We have to answer these questions: "Yes, we will have to continue the path of increasing the national minimum wage. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr President, the concern about corruption is something that, fortunately, accompanies me and on which I have been given evidence throughout a vast political career, from the Minister of Justice to the authorship. As you know me well, you will certainly make me the justice of having no doubt about it. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is also a concern about the implementation of the funds. As you know, in this House of the Republic we have tabled a proposal for a law on public procurement which, by eliminating bureaucracy, reinforces its follow-up, in particular proposing a follow-up committee which is elected by this House of the Republic. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The honourable Member will not be aware, but will be aware that since last year the Agency for Development and Cohesion, which manages Community funds, has a protocol with the Department of Central Research and Criminal Action to enable and facilitate the supervision and follow-up by the Ministry of Public Affairs of the sound management of Community funds. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is also why we are currently in public debate a National Strategy for Combating Corruption, which I hope will quickly translate into concrete legislative initiatives to strengthen the arsenal for combating corruption, which is essentially still the same as this House approved when I was the Minister of Justice, on the initiative and proposal of the Government. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, I once again objected, as I have been doing disciplinaryly since his intervention at the closing of the Front Party! , the multiple concerns which will be expressed in the next State budget, to which we will seek to correspond in the context of our ongoing joint assessment. Now, this recovery and resilience programme is a unique opportunity not to do what the European Union requires us to do, but to tell the European Union what we want to do. That is why we have brought this programme to debate. If you take into account the documents we delivered and shared last Monday, on investment in all social vulnerabilities, in public school, in qualifications, in public transport, we have about EUR 6 billion in this programme. There is no lack of ambition to respond to the concrete and social needs of our people, which are mirrored in the proposed programme that we have presented. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs Catarina Martins, I am not sure what the final approval of this recovery and resilience programme will be. However, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this programme has not been postponed. The European Council approved this last July. I only hope that the European Parliament will vote in favour of it and that the left-wing bloc electors in the European Parliament will contribute as quickly as possible to the adoption of this programme. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I wanted to leave a concrete note on what I said about human resources in the National Health Service. Today, we have more than 5216 professionals than we had at the beginning of the year; only in relation to doctors, we have more 691 than we had at the beginning of the year and, as you know, next month we will have even more because, as a result of the delay at the end of the general boarding, there is a delay in the possibility of entering specialists who have not yet completed the training. Mrs Cecilia Meireles, I have seen that she has read the Strategic Vision presented by Prof. António Costa Silva and I am very pleased with it, but I see that her leader has not yet provided her with the concrete documentation that we have already given to the CDS last Monday, where even priorities are achieved and quantified. So when we move on to the debate of what is now under discussion, we would also like to count on the positive contribution of the CDS-PP. Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, with regard to the programme we are presenting here, it provides for investments in the National Health Service as a whole and in particular in response to the elderly population, about EUR 1, 5 billion. Regarding the issue of waste, as you know, in this programme they are not accounting and that is why there has to be linkage with other programmes, including PT 2030. in the same way, it also has to be agileized with PT 2030 regarding the investment in circulating material, to which Mrs Mariana Silva referred. What we say is that between PT 2030, Connecting Europe Facility and this program, we will make this investment that is planned for the renewal of rolling stock at the CP ( Portugal Trains ). Mr. André Ventura, who has no doubt: I hope that there will be European taxes, because if there are no European taxes, it will be the national taxes to pay for this recovery programme. You will choose whether it will be Europe or whether it will be us paying. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u47	Continuing in this stage of debate, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u48	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister and others. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I have already said what I think of this plan — a catalogue of dozens of measures in which everything is crucial, fundamental, essential, central, in which everything, that is nothing, is priority. I am going to go over the propaganda that has been made against the Liberals in this regard, as if the good examples of fighting the pandemic and starting economic recovery did not come precisely from liberal countries. Only that the government, instead of doing what is the essence of politics, that is to say, making choices and fine-tuning priorities, has only crossed the axes of the Costa Silva Plan with the pillars of Brussels, not to see if the measures make sense, but only to see if they can be financed. But there are two huge mistakes here. The first is not to realize that at the root of our problems of always — poverty, asymmetries, inefficient services, centralism and compassion — there is a lack of economic development. Without more wealth, we can well discuss the quality of public services or the exaggeration of the tax burden, which, sooner or later, there will be no money to pay anything. And here there are two concepts of how the country can develop: the PS believes it is through the state's governing dictates, but IL believes it is through the free initiative and effort of people and businesses, to which the plan gives less than one third of the funds. The second mistake is even worse. This plan requires the ability to run projects worth double or triple what was achieved in the best years of implementation of the Structural Funds. This plan requires an enormous mobilization of the entire Portuguese society, especially those who can create such wealth without which political discussion remains sterile.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u49	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u50	I shall conclude, Mr President. In view of this evidence, the Government opts to maintain the logic of managing the funds that already exist, i.e., it hopes to achieve much more ambitious objectives with the same structure. In order not to miss this opportunity, we need to mobilize and free the energy and creativity of the Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u51	Thank you very much, Mr. You have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u52	That is absolutely crucial, fundamental, essential, central.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u53	I give the floor to Mr Afonso Oliveira.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u54	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister and others. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With the agenda of this debate, I thought momentarily if we had returned to some place by the end of 2015 and at the beginning of the almost five years of the Socialist Party governments led by the current Prime Minister. But, after all, we're actually in September 2020! Mr Prime Minister finally discovered, in the midst of a gigantic health crisis, that he did not have a strategic vision for the country and, in the last five years of governance, he never missed a strategic thought or any contribution from someone who looked at the country we are and the country we want to be. The PSD has been saying, over the past few years, what is very obvious to everyone today: the government has sailed in view, the government does not have a strategic direction. When Mr. Prime Minister was confronted, like all Portuguese, with an exceptional circumstance, which was, in fact, absolutely unpredictable and revealed a completely new reality for all, he looked at the side, looked at his government and found something we already knew: there was a lack of a strategic vision for the country and it was not possible to find this vision within his government. This is precisely the virtuality of the work produced by Prof.António Costa Silva : to force the government to realize that it can, must and must even have strategic thought in government action and that knowledge of reality and possibilities is always a necessary good for decisions. We are living an exceptional time and, at this exceptional time, there is a question to which the Government has to answer: what do the Portuguese expect today from the government's action? This is what the Government has to understand: what are the Portuguese waiting for from the government's action? Mr. Prime Minister, what the Portuguese expect of government action is very simple: a course! They expect a direction, Mr Prime Minister, to be the mobiliser of all Portuguese, involving workers, entrepreneurs, businesses, universities and institutions. Unfortunately, the government has not been able to define this direction nor to mobilise Portuguese for what we all have to do. The author himself of the Strategic Vision commissioned by the government, Prof. António Costa Silva, said - very clearly - and today the opportunity of this statement is of the greatest relevance: "If there is no collaboration and support from the state to profitable and competitive companies, which are in trouble with treasury because of the pandemic, and these fail, it will be a disaster for the Portuguese economy and recovery will be slower. Do not keep on seeking. ” Let us hope that this statement by Prof. António Costa Silva echoes within the government and let them realize, once and for all, that a recovery plan must even have measures that enhance the productivity and competitiveness of companies, because it is businesses, entrepreneurs and workers who create wealth and increase the country. And it is there, in entrepreneurial capacity, in innovation, in the potential for creating more and better jobs, that the lion's share of European support for the country's economic recovery needs to be placed. This answer has not yet been given by the Prime Minister and should be given. It is in this context that the lion's leg must be placed in companies. Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister and others. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, the Portuguese expect from the Government what the Government has failed to give over the five years of governance — strategic orientation, clear objectives and capacity to achieve. The Portuguese expect much more action and less propaganda from the government. After the presentation by Prof. António Costa Silva of the Strategic Vision for the Economic Recovery Plan, the Prime Minister began his intervention with a question, that I remember having been there watching. Mr. Prime Minister asked: "What now? Indeed, it is a good question, which must be put in your Council of Ministers: "What now? It is a question that we must also return to you: "And now, Prime Minister? The question is that the answers have not been given and today we have seen that there is no answer to what follows. You don't know what the government's plan is! Now it is time for your Government to do what needs to be done: to create a model of governance of European funds that is proof of interests that are not only the interests of Portugal and Portuguese; to bet on Portuguese and its ability to face adversity; to listen to Portuguese society and define the right priorities. It will be unforgivable not to have a government at the time we live. It will be unforgivable to have a government that makes the same mistakes as the socialist governments of the past. It will be unforgivable that this is the government of lost opportunity. There's no time to go wrong, this is really the time to hit. Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister and others. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I end in the same terms that I have already done, from this very place, with the thought of Almada Negroes, which translates very much the moment we live: « When I was born, the phrases that will save humanity were all written, only one thing was missing — saving humanity. » in this case, what is really missing is a plan, and this plan that has not yet been realized what it is. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u55	Mr Cecilia Meireles of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group now speaks.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u56	Mr President, I believe that there will still be an opportunity to make an explanation. I would just like to tell Mr. Prime Minister that we have done our homework and, therefore, I have requested and obtained this precious document for my party today. That is how, after having spent a few days studying the 10 priority axes, I could now study these three great blocks. As Mr. Prime Minister will understand, this is not a study that takes many hours. By the way, talking about concrete things, but I'm exemplaring what I'd like to know. The document reads as follows: « resilience », « productive potential », « corporate capitalisation» — we all agree. What I ask the Prime Minister is if he thinks it capitalizes companies by telling them: "If you don't have money to pay taxes, they'll be indebted to the bank, they'll pay interest to the bank to pay your taxes. » It is that if there is no treasure, there is no money to pay taxes. Only that the State may delay paying to the companies it hires, but taxpayers and liberals cannot delay. So is this the notion of aid and capitalisation of companies? Perhaps, it is more worth looking at these more practical matters and leaving great intentions for the great thinkers. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u57	Mr. João Paulo Correia, of the PS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u58	Mr President, if I may use this regiment figure, my intervention is to question Mr Afonso Oliveira of the PSD, who recently made an intervention. At the time, we pointed out to the Bureau that we wanted to sign up, but it was not registered. So I'm going to use the regiment figure of the question in my speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u59	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u60	Mr Afonso Oliveira said recently that this plan does not bring an idea, it does not bring new proposals to the country. The truth is that the PSD did not bring a single proposal, a single idea for this debate. The great concern of the PSD is the rise of the minimum wage, as if it were the source of all the ills of the future that comes there. To hear Dr. Rui Rio say that recently, as Mr. Afonso Oliveira also said, reminded us of what he said here at the end of 2015 and in 2016, repeatedly, Mr. Passos Coelho, when he came to say that the increase in the minimum wage would destroy job creation and trigger unemployment. This is a lack of ideas, an empty proposal. The country was waiting for more PSD in this kind of debate! [[P.S.'s applause.]] The Government has brought to Parliament the country's economic recovery and resilience plan for the coming years, to face the extreme crisis that the country, Europe and the world are living, a plan of about EUR 13 billion, with three fundamental axes: resilience, digital transition and climate transition. The government has heard the country, it has heard the society — this plan has had a wide participation — it has heard the parties and what we heard from the PSD bench is a round "zero", which is regrettable and we cannot let it be clear. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u61	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us continue with the order of inscriptions. Before that, however, I have an indication that Mr Afonso Oliveira of the PSD Parliamentary Group wants to respond. Mr President, you have the floor, with six seconds.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u62	Mr. President, it will be very fast. I believe that Mr João Paulo Correia has, as usual, not even heard my speech, nor much of the debate. [[PSD applause.]] If I had listened, I had noticed that what is at stake in this debate today in Parliament is the strategic plan of the Government. What was realized is that there is a strategic vision presented by Prof. Costa Silva and there is not yet a strategic plan of the government for what needs to be done next. There's no, you don't get it yet! We're arguing and we'll see. Therefore, what is an intention of the Government in some areas, and which is under discussion — although it is — but at the moment I did not say that Prof. Costa Silva did not present a set of proposals worth discussing and evaluating.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u63	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u64	Mr President, if you will allow me, I leave a final note and finish quickly.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u65	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u66	I'm done now, Mr. President. Mr. João Paulo Correia, compare what is incomparable is incomprehensible. Compare the 2011 crisis with the reality that we have lived for four years with the Socialist Party Government, and with what we live today is the one that is completely east of paradise. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u67	I have the floor, for one speech, Mrs. Minister of State and the Presidency, Mariana Vieira da Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u68	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: A young man born in 1990 completes 30 years in 2020 and has witnessed two international economic crises in his adult life. Less than a decade ago, many of the companies where he could have worked stopped hiring, the wages suffered cuts, did not progress in the career he chose. In the last crisis, their parents may have been unemployed and their grandparents may have had their pensions cut. Probably, at the age of 30, he deferred his departure from home and still could not choose to have children. The crises, even after they have been overcome, persist in the lives of those who have lived them. That is why it is so important to respond quickly and effectively, so that in this crisis the impacts are not as profound, to avoid backlogs of decades in employment, wages—it has already been seen that this is what the right is about — and in rights, like those that happened in the past. The Government has made a commitment to respond differently to this crisis. We have worked to create the conditions for the response to combat the effects of the pandemic crisis, rather than to accentuate it. The recovery and resilience plan, together with economic recovery and employment, which is always the fundamental element of overcoming a crisis, must protect the most vulnerable. No crisis hits all equally. It touches more and more heavily those who were already most unprotected, accentuated their poverty and the inequalities they face, withdrawing the opportunities to those who were least protected. What is expected of public policies is to correct these inequalities. That is what the plan we are now discussing contains. [[P.S.'s applause.]] To build a future of progress and well-being, we must strengthen the SNS and the social network that protects all, which needs to be stronger and closer. Therefore, the first objective of this plan is to strengthen the SNS, in particular by concluding the National Network of Integrated Continued Care and the National Network of Palliative Care and defining a plan to strengthen the Network of Primary Health Care. Secondly, in an area where the pandemic revealed weaknesses in social responses, the plan responds with a new generation of equipment and answers, which should allow investing in the quality of responses designed for the elderly, reinforcing home support responses and better responding to families. Also in housing and poverty, particularly in metropolitan areas, this plan has proposals. We have the resources and a well-defined path with fundamental objectives. We must put our energies in the recovery of the crisis, in the fight against unemployment, in the fight against poverty and inequality. And who, in the past, defended different responses to the crises we live has an added duty to participate in this path. We want to win the battles of the future, of the green economy and of the digital transition, but we will do so today, with the women and men of our present, with the children and young people of our future. It is with them and with them, it is for them and for them that public policies have to work, working more for those who need it, so that everyone's strength reaches each other. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u69	Mrs Minister, you have registered to ask for clarifications by the honourable Members. Deputies José Soeiro, of the Left Block, and Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro, of the PS. First of all, Mr José Soeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u70	Mr President, Mrs Minister, the pandemic exposed the weaknesses of our social protection system and also the shortcomings of our care delivery system. We have more than half of the unemployed without access to unemployment protection, a problem that has already come from behind, precisely changes made by the Socialist Party in 2010 and the amendments made by the right in 2012 ; we have an unrealistic coverage of the social unemployment allowance; we have a deprotection of self-employed workers, which made it necessary to create extraordinary support, which was required by some 200,000 workers and which did not reach all of the people he needed; we have unemployment benefits and extraordinary support with values far below the poverty threshold - on average, on average, in extraordinary support, are half of what is today the poverty threshold - we have social care entirely given to the private sector, the State being the financier and a fragile supervisory and not having a public care network, especially for older people and dependent people; we have a model of institutionalization that is not useful and a reinforcement of professionals in social care that has been made tragically, the mistakes made. The 15 000 professionals that the Government announced would strengthen the homes of the elderly are strengthening these care infrastructures without contract, with only one scholarship, and not a contract of employment, and without wages, because they receive unemployment benefit and an increase. Now, this is a model of State-assisted precariousness, which is the opposite of what we need to respond to the crisis. And, of course, in the world of work, particularly for young people, but not only, there is a precaution of precaution that seems to have no end in view and that has revealed the social consequences in this context. Therefore, Madam Minister, I ask you whether in the debate on strengthening social protection, in the debate on resilience, in the debate on employment you do not think it is necessary to go much further to leave no one behind, knowing that the strengthening of social protection is the discussion on social support measures, but it is also the discussion on combating precariousness and the reconstruction of collective labour relations, because one thing and the other are two sides of the same coin. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u71	Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u72	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Government members, the debate on a decade-long economic recovery demonstrates a spirit of humility, commitment and transparency by the Government. This is not a party debate. It is the debate of a country that has to collectively overcome the challenges that we have before us, and it is certain that, as we have heard this afternoon, there are opposition parties that have a lot of work to do in order to make the necessary contributions to these solutions. We know that these solutions do not depend on the pure forces of the market, they depend on the State, and therefore we must involve everyone, even those who over the years have attacked the State and now ask for more SNS, more public transport, more social services, more public school, demonstrating, in fact, as one of the first consequences of a crisis is even transforming old liberals into new socialists followers of the social state. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The social state has been very necessary over the past few months and, before we prepare for the next few years, we do not neglect what we had to do in the most critical period of the health crisis — a health crisis that has also been a social crisis and will be, I know, a job crisis. If we managed to preserve thousands of jobs and incomes it was because we approved the simplified layoff; if the intermittents of the show and other independent workers today have protection was because we extended it; if there are no cuts of light and water for those who cannot pay it was because we prevented it; if people can continue to maintain their credits it is because we approve moratoriums. We have done all this and much more, mobilising billions of euros — more than EUR 2300 million — in social security services, in the Supplementary Budget that we have approved here, demonstrating the importance of our social state. But it was only possible to do this because we arrived at the beginning of this year with a budgetary surplus, because we started an economic and social return policy which, over five years, allowed us to re-emergize the country, dynamize the economy, create jobs, inject confidence and thus also clean up our public accounts. [[P.S.'s applause.]] With this, today, we have more muscle to face the crisis that we have ahead of us, as a result of the fundamental choices we have made over the past few years. Today, the great option, Mrs. Minister, is: employment, employment, employment! I know that the Government shares this ambition and that the plan here is inseparable from this priority. Therefore, I would ask you to develop the question of employment as a pillar of this plan as soon as you have available and explain how concerns about science, skills and the digital transition itself are fundamental to qualified jobs, more employment and the future economy, where everyone has their place. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u73	You have the floor to reply, Mrs. Minister of State and the Presidency, Mariana Vieira da Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u74	Mr. President, thank you to the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen, the two questions. I believe that one of the fundamental things when we look at a response to the crisis such as the one we have to give is, of course, to reject false dichotomies between urgency and the structural response. They do not exist, as this crisis has well shown, because what the crisis reveals is that we need to work in areas where we are already working. What we are trying to ensure is that, within the framework of the State budgets, the recovery plan and the multiannual financial framework, we can get a coherent answer to all these problems that we have identified and to many others that we could identify with more time, without thinking that first we have to solve what is urgent and then we will deal with what is structural, because if we do so, we will no longer respond to what is structural.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u75	Absolutely agreeing!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u76	Therefore, the question of employment also goes through this dimension, because what is shown is that we have to continue the work we were doing, not just creating jobs, and that we are beginning to bet on projects that can quickly prove the ability to create jobs and also work on job quality, particularly by combating precariousness. What remains of this debate, I believe, is a question: if we are not able to understand ourselves in a response to the crisis that increases investment, that protects the SNS, that strengthens social policies, when can we be able to understand ourselves? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u77	We have thus reached the end of the debate period. Let's move on to the closing phase. I have the floor, Mr José Luís Ferreira, of the Parliamentary Group of the Green Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u78	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Government today brings the discussion of the recovery and resilience plan, assumed as one of the main structural intervention instruments for the recovery of the economy and to improve the quality of life of the Portuguese. However, as we have stated since the first hour, the Greens continue to consider that it will be an irreversible mistake if they seek to recover the economy through options that cause great and serious environmental impacts and whose contributions to the country's development are more than doubtful. We refer, for example, to the location of the new airport in Montijo, to the unbridled exploitation of lithium, ignoring the concerns of the populations and opening up the door so that this exploitation can take place in classified areas, to incentives for intensive and superintensive crops, in particular olives and peanuts. We also refer to deep-sea mining, when, in the face of negative environmental impacts, even the European Union itself defends an international moratorium on this mining, and finally to the construction of the dam in the Ocreza River, which, in addition to the consequences that will cause the ecosystems and coastal communities, still appears as a sort of alternative to the Government's efforts to revise the Albufeira Convention. It happens that trying to recover the economy by sacrificing our environmental values is to try to cover a hole by opening up other holes, which not even the most powerful bazouca will be able to regularize. Knowing that the preservation of our environmental values is absolutely crucial for our collective resilience, The Greens argue that a strategic vision for the future requires, first and foremost, sustainable options that do not compromise, that do not mortgage, the future that is intended to be assured. We well know that in this plan there are signs, at the level of agriculture, for the protection of biodiversity, as well as the intention to restore degraded ecosystems, which, in fact, we welcome, but we also know that nothing refers to the plan regarding the conservation of nature that is not yet degraded. That is to say, cover yourself on one side to dissipate from the other, and that is not enough to talk about sustainability. What is needed is to recover what is degraded and preserve what is not yet degraded. In summary, as far as environmental values are concerned, what we believe is that the protection of nature does not represent a properly valued component in this plan. As for public transport and infrastructure, the highlight goes to the metro of Lisbon and Porto, but there is a waste of proposals in the interior of the country with regard to public transport. With regard to rail, progress is expected at the level of its electrification and expansion, which we highlight as positive, but we do not fail to note that, at the same time as the importance of the railway and its expansion is emphasized, it insists on the conversion of the Lousã branch to a ‘metrobus’, grossly contradicting the path that is outlined in the plan itself. But, even on the railway, the Greens hope that the time has come to fulfill the promise of the Government Programme to take rail transport to all district capitals. On the other hand, the plan elects the productive potential as a great block, but leaves out an area that is, in this matter, absolutely decisive, and even more so when we talk about food sovereignty. We refer to family farming, a matter which, in fact, is also crossed by another great block, which is that of territorial cohesion. Finally, the plan refers, and well, to the importance of the National Health Service, but does not clearly explore the need to strengthen with health professionals, in addition to assigning little relevance to primary health care and being omitted regarding the need to reopen health units and extend schedules. For all this, we look at this plan with reservations and fear that the government's tip is not sure how to use this bazouca and thereby compromises the opportunity to leverage a sustainable future. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u79	It's the time of the NAP. Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u80	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister and other members of the Government : At the close of this debate, we cannot help but strengthen our concern about some of the omissions that persist in this plan and that are, from the outset, facing the challenges of territorial cohesion. In addition to the examples being scarce in this area and not having been presented a plan identifying the way of combating regional and social asymmetries, which persist in our time, and of attracting people and activities to the interior, in addition, the proposals presented are also disconnected from the future climate reality of the regions in question. What are we going to do, Prime Minister, to protect the southernmost regions from desertification? Or how will we manage the scarce water resources we will have in the future? What agriculture of the future? Or how are we going to defend our shoreline from rising sea level? How will we still ensure a digital transition appropriate to the different realities of the country? Or how are we going to fight energy poverty and defend those who have no financial resources to warm up in winter or cool down in summer? Will or will not the Government create substantial support for investments in energy efficiency for those who cannot afford it, as the NAP has defended, thus mitigating a two-speed Portugal? This plan also identifies the Azores and Madeira as tourist attractions poles. These regions, however, in order to maintain their ecosystems intact, cannot continue to bet on the excessive growth of tourism. What is required, Mr. Prime Minister, is whether or not we are going to follow Prof. Costa Silva's own recommendation and carry out tourist load studies before moving forward with an activity that may call into question the ecosystems. It is important that, following what is a latent concern of non-governmental organisations in the environment, for the NAP, the fight against climate change is not done without protecting biodiversity and degraded areas as well, quite the contrary. Mr Prime Minister, recognizing a number of good intentions in the narrative of this plan, we cannot fail to express our disappointment, because, in fact, although it seems very comprehensive and willing to reconcile all views, in fact, it translates into very little. It is very little because it is based on the assumption that we can maintain the current socio-economic model extractivist and consumerist, which is wrong, insofar as not only can we not do so, as if we want to function within the limits of the planet and maintain life as we know it, we have to stop with the way we live and consume. It is very little because part of the assumption that the territory will not undergo changes due to climate change, which is fallacious, because we are going to have droughts, desertification in the south of the country, the coastal coast threatened with rising sea level, among other changes. Mr Prime Minister, how can it be continued from the assumption that the construction of the largest infrastructure is permitted permanently in areas where we do not have any type of climate risk assessment? It is very little because it does not effectively focus on the two biggest challenges ahead: fighting and adapting to climate change. It is very little because it forgets young people, who, in addition to deserve a planet to survive, need answers to their future and need the country to hear them and bet on them to evolve. It is very little because it forgets the needs of the most vulnerable and often forgotten population and does not realize that, without social cohesion, nothing builds up for the future. It is also very little with regard to the scale of the impact that its measures will have on the recovery of the economy, on gender equality, on multiple forms of discrimination and social exclusion. It is very little because it does not face the challenges we have in society, such as the fight against corruption, and once again, it leaves in the drawer the one who is the justice pact. Mr. Prime Minister, our country has a unique opportunity to make investments that are absolutely fundamental to the paradigm change that is imposed on the growth and development model, in a recovery that is truly sustainable and socially just. What we have to know today is whether the government is really prepared to accept a vision for this plan that is more progressive, more sustainable from the environmental and human point of view for present and future generations.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u81	Mr Telmo Correia has the floor on behalf of the CDS-PP for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u82	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister and others. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I must say that Mr Prime Minister came here today to challenge and propose a consensus. And the first question that makes sense may be this: a consensus on what, in particular? In fact, this plan, based on the Costa Silva Plan, is to a large extent a broad set of generalities—generalities that many of us have said and repeated many years, often without knowing how they will be carried out, without knowing what it will cost, in particular, each of these goals and, above all, who will monitor them. from here to there, of course, there is still a lack of the important discussion of the State budget, but let us say that this is an advance letter — a sort of Christmas wish — addressed to the European Christmas Father, where everything that the country may want and wish is in place. Only that it will have to be paid and the question, of course, is also to know who pays and how we, Portuguese, will pay this list of wishes. Mr Prime Minister, it is clear that taxes will be European, they will not be Portuguese, but the fact is that the Portuguese will continue to pay our highest tax burden and will also have to pay European taxes. Or did we stop being Europeans? Obviously, we didn't. I note that this plan, in fact, recalls a little of the 50 measures taken by a former Socialist Prime Minister — the Prime Minister Socrates and his 50-measure plans, which we all know where they led us — which is always very based, as is the Costa Silva Plan, in an ideological rhetoric to please management, i.e. "we are going to fight the liberals", "what is needed, in fact, is more state", when what we expected was, in fact, more pragmatism and less citations beaten, which gave a very fine article for a reference newspaper, but are not useful in a pragmatic and effective plan for the country. On the other hand, it is also a little bit of everything and its opposite, i.e.: mobilization and dynamization of big cities, but interior; creation and growing industry, but environment... It is a little bit of everything and its opposite and, Mr. Prime Minister, in my opinion, this new utopia, this utopia 2.0, strikes a little bit with the reality of the country. They refer to the great development of digitization. It's not gonna be okay, it's gonna be perfect, if we look at the plan. But the reality is this: where is the million computers, who were supposed to be reaching schools and children right now, when so many Portuguese children don't have computers? Regarding the elderly, they say that we will finally resolve the abandonment of the elderly, with which we are faced every day. But in a country where there are people who wait two years to see their pension processed, this conflicts with reality, in our opinion, Prime Minister. And even we found the wrong assumptions. For example, one of the assumptions of the Costa Silva Plan is that the nation-state is in decline. Are you sure, Prime Minister? I am not so sure that the nation-state is in decline, nor am I sure that, as far as China is concerned, the whole West is asleep. Maybe there's a part that's there, but I don't know if it's all there. Therefore, from these assumptions, we will exercise — by quoting the « Costa Silva plan », the phrase is not mine — our « soft power» and we will be, as these plans usually say, a player with our Armed Forces, a player not only European but also Atlantic. That's what the plan says. The reality is that the Chief of Staff of the Armed Forces said, a very short time ago, that the situation is broken and unsustainable, because there is no recruitment and no means - and the same is said of the security forces. With regard to rail, they announce great investment and great solution. What's the reality? Import of Spanish scrap with asbestos. This is the last reality we know in the railroad. That is to say, this is a plan of good intentions, it has some good ideas — that is not what is at stake — some of which are profitable, very little quantifiable, and above all, it is very little descriptive of what will be done in concrete terms. Finally, Mr Prime Minister, saying that the question is an option and the first option we expected to know was about the economic model. What do we want? What do we want to have as an economic model for the country? This model that is presented to us is still more...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u83	Mr President, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u84	I will finish, Mr. President. As I was saying, this model is still more state and more public consumption. The model we should have was more private initiative, more companies and an export economy. If this is the model, we will hardly adhere, even if we can make contributions. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u85	Mr João Oliveira of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u86	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister and other members of the Government: The CFP has brought to this debate its vision and its proposals for what is the solution to the problems facing the country. We have identified lines of ruin with the policy that led the country to the situation in which it is and we have also identified objectives to pursue, underlining issues that seem central to us in the objectives that need to be achieved, in particular the need for a policy to value wages, workers' rights and income from popular levels, the need to recover public control of companies and strategic sectors, the need for a policy to create jobs from the exploitation of productive sectors and also the absolutely indispensable investment in public services, whether in buildings and equipment that are necessary, whether in the hiring of workers. Perhaps more important than all this, we have pointed out concrete measures and actions that must be taken to overcome the problems affecting workers and the people, in matters that correspond not only to the immediate problems that workers and the Portuguese people are suffering today, but also to the structural problems of the country. And, Mrs Mariana Vieira da Silva, there is no dichotomy here between immediate problems that need to be answered and structural problems of the country to which it needs to be answered. What is needed is that the immediate response to today's problems fits in with objectives that respond to the country's structural problems. This is a crucial issue, and it is a crucial issue today, for the problems that the Portuguese are suffering and for the needs they have ahead. Some of these proposals are already scheduled for discussion and decision in the Assembly of the Republic, for example: the discussion we will make tomorrow on the hiring of workers for social security to strengthen social equipment; the proposal, which the CFP has scheduled for next week, to increase unemployment benefit, either in terms of access to the amounts and time of payment; the measures related to the hourly bank, with the increase of the national minimum wage. All of these are proposals which the CFP has already scheduled for discussion and vote in the Assembly of the Republic and correspond to immediate problems which are now felt by the Portuguese and are also part of this in-depth response to the structural problems of the country we need. When we know today that a new record of workers under Layoff regime has been reached, when we know that there are 120 workers in Autoeuropa who are at risk of being fired and losing their jobs, when we check the abuses of the great patronage on the workers, with the imposition of irregular working hours and the worsening of the exploitation, particularly through the hour bank, all of these are examples that confirm the need for immediate measures to respond to these problems, but of the framework of each of these measures in substantive responses that go beyond these structural problems that the country encounters. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have no illusions about the forces that need to be brought together to achieve these objectives and we know that one of the main issues, which is truly decisive, is that workers take up the struggle to solve these concrete problems, which is an essential aspect. We also know that, in turn, there are those who are making accounts for other championships. Mr Rui Rio made a reference today to the national minimum wage which, as has already been said by my comrade Jerome de Sousa, naturally aims to obtain support from all those who believe that wages should be lowered. I would say that whoever did government practice cuts of wages late or never gets used to workers' wages having to increase. [[PCP applause.]] But this is a fight that we will also fight in the Assembly of the Republic today, as we have done in the past, when the PSD and CDS government imposed cuts of wages, pension cuts, social benefits cuts, which, also with our contribution and with our initiative, have been restored in recent years. Mr. As and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, with the size of the problems facing the country today, with the size of the taxes made to us by the European Union, with criteria that do not correspond to the national development options we need to pursue, the options that the country has to make of its productive resources and its productive potential to create jobs, to develop themselves, to create wealth are absolutely crucial options but must be accompanied by measures to redistribute wealth, so that the creation of greater wealth also corresponds to greater social justice in its distribution. The question of wage increases is one of the crucial issues...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u87	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u88	I conclude, Mr. President. Public investment, investment in public services, the hiring of workers, the betting and strengthening of the response to social protection are other such essential dimensions and, as such, we will be hitting us, with our initiative, with our proposals, in the whole area where the Assembly of the Republic has competence to intervene on these matters. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u89	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u90	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There is one issue that I think needs to be clarified about this debate, because if we do not know exactly what the reality of the country is, if we do not do the present analysis well, we will hardly succeed in the future. So when Mr. Prime Minister brought the SNS data here to the colloquium, I must tell him, until this matter is absolutely clear, that this is one of the problems we are witnessing. Between January and July, SNS data — public and known — indicate that 130 doctors left SNS. As far as internal doctors are concerned, it was 452. These are public, official data from SNS between January and July. May Mr. Prime Minister come and say that he's going to hire new doctors doesn't mean it's bad, it's good. But we know that the hiring of these new doctors is to pass those who are already interns and already work at the SNS for specialist doctors. Thus, there is no extension of the recruitment base within the SNS and that is a problem. We also know that as the number of doctors was reducing, during the pandemic, the number of users without a family doctor was increasing. When we know that, in response to the pandemic, primary care is essential, there are more than 300 000 users without a family doctor, now in August. I therefore believe that, in view of this reality, the question that should exist is whether, in fact, the SNS is a bet of the country, if, in fact, its professionals are a bet of this government and the country. If so, it is inexplicable that at the time we most needed them we would not have managed to keep them in the SNS and not have been able to hire new doctors for the SNS. This concern is that it also makes us distrust of what Prof. António Costa Silva has repeatedly presented. It is that, several times, he failed the target in the analysis of reality and, several times, he had incongruence or even errors in what he presented, despite the much that is there, I believe, subscribed by the vast majority of Portuguese. But in the analysis he did failed exactly what is needed for people in this country: he failed at work and failed in income policy. In the strategic vision presented initially, on combating precariousness and on the need to value income in our country, there is not one word. And if we look at the effects of the pandemic—and resilience means dealing with the difficulties and recovering better—, the problems were effectively beginning with those who were unprotected, the precarious, the self-employed, all played in unemployment. The Government could have done as they did in Spain and Italy, it could have decided that there would be no layoffs during that period. It has not done so, and we know that what is happening now is summarizing, then, in the leaves of social security, with regard to the payment of unemployment allowances, but above all, it adds up to those that are registered, but they do not receive any support. And that's a difficulty and it's those we can't leave behind. About that, Antonio Costa Silva's plan says zero. The government has brawled, done it again and says almost nothing about work. On the fundamental point, which is to protect employment, ban layoffs, there is no line in the Government's strategic vision on this matter. We need to change the labour law. What we realize today is that precariousness is the precondition for unemployment and that this weakens the economy. And if Mr. Prime Minister says, and I have to believe what he said, that «a future company is not a low-wage company», it cannot also be a precarious company, because it has no future, not in our economy, nor in the outside world. We know that income policy is scary right there. There are ghosts who have come to sleep with Dr. Rui Rio and others from his bench, but we are those who understand that when we put down the dogmas and believe in income policy, in the return of rights, in the defense of people, the country was better and that is what we have to do.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u91	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u92	There is another aspect in which the Costa Silva plan fails and on which the government has not said anything, it is called a financial system. We have the elephant in the room, called New Bank, which takes, in public money, half of what we will discuss in the coming years and on this matter we know that the government has always given its notice of payments to the New Bank and we know that the Costa Silva plan does not have a line on this matter. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u93	Mr Adam Silva of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u94	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Members: The times of pandemic, with its highlights, fears and disappointments, are also times of a new beginning. Europe strongly places on the creation of robust conditions for this start and Portugal cannot waste either the financial resources made available or, at least, the time, which is the first of the resources. We have great challenges ahead of us, because great is the torment that afflicts us today. The use of EUR 58 billion over the next nine years, i.e. EUR 6500 million per year and more than EUR 16 million per day, are exceptional resources for the modernisation of Portugal, an unexpected opportunity we cannot waste. The Social Democratic Party brings two questions here today: where are we going to use this money? How are we going to use this money? Companies must be the main recipients of these resources: companies that promote innovation, sustainable and quality employment and revitalize exports; productive and competitive companies that are able to improve wages and give sustainability to social systems that will combat poverty; companies duly supported and encouraged to distribute throughout the territory, generating territorial justice, equal opportunities and demographic balance. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u95	Companies with social awareness, as a space where people take place, the free creative initiative is evidenced and are the pride of Portugal. If the country, by ideological opportunisms, were to concentrate those exceptional resources on the satisfaction of political customers and friendlyisms and even on the creation of a mastodontic state, we would be walking backwards, contrary to the winds of history. The Government cannot use that jackpot to ensure its own survival. If so, their survival would be made at the expense of the decadence and insubsistence of Portugal and Portuguese. That would be unacceptable. But the State and public services must also be caressed with modernizing investments, even to overcome an unbearable widespread finding that public services are on the verge of a nerve attack, much because of the lack of investments in recent years, of the current government and the former government. This is because the future of Portugal is also gaining effective public services by having the citizens and staff motivators. The second question I left behind is how we're going to spend that money. If Portugal consumes around EUR 3000 million of Community funds annually to date, that means that we will receive twice as much in the next nine years. The challenge is gigantic, especially when we are desperate with the lack of readiness of the public administrative machine. But the greatest shock that affects us has to do with the waste, the megalomanian investments, such white elephants, disproposed and taxed—some of them already look at the cardboard—and especially with the chains of corruption and compassion that soon settle. Portugal is not a country of corrupt, but Portugal is today stained by sad circumstances of which I stand out: a former prime minister accused, former bankers and alleged bankers around with justice, responsible for the biggest companies under suspicion, personalities at the top of the judiciary surrounded by suspicions. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u96	The common citizen watches this social collapse and fears the worst. [[PSD applause.]] Well, if the imperative must be 'not a penny wasted', we must add: not a bit of wasted hope!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u97	Mr President, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u98	That is why we need to be intolerant to corrupt practices at this time that the pandemic imposes on us, and at this opportunity that Community funds provide us with.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u99	You must conclude, sir!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u100	As the President of my party, Mr Rui Rio, said: 'The government must, we all, Parliament and the courts, be able to find solutions to monitor and monitor the use of these Community funds, so that we do not have the chest pain, the pain of soul, which we have had in the past, of the misuse of Community funds. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u101	For the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Carlos Pereira has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u102	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister and other members of the Government, Mr and Mr Members: In democracy there are differences in the ways to be followed. That is how we want, that is the essence of the system in which we feel represented, and that is why we will fight to the limit of our forces to preserve it. But this debate takes place in a critical time of our lives, putting intense pressure and sometimes insurmountable anxiety on all our fellow citizens. The Portuguese will not forgive us if the Assembly of the Republic is unable to generate an extended understanding of a recovery plan that goes beyond this legislation and which is no longer the design of the rest of our lives, of the lives of families, of the older, of children, of businesses, of entrepreneurs, of young people, of all without exception. The tremendous climate of uncertainty that the pandemic crisis causes and the gradual and abrupt degradation of economic and social indicators require of us a new attitude, a new politicus, an extreme capacity to drop political differences and break with ideological prejudices, to look at our real Portugal with dignity and sense of responsibility. We believe that we have a duty to take care of the country with genuine patriotic sense, especially those who suffer, those who are desperate, those who cry from the loved ones, those who are afraid of the pandemic, but also to lose their jobs, or to close the company, or have no money to pay the bills. We can stand before a historic landmark and the Portuguese wait for us, this House, the democratic maturity and the objectivity responsible for speaking with one voice. Diverging unconditionally in the essential part of the plan is compromising its speedy and effective implementation, but also reducing the country's strength in defending our interests in Brussels. I believe that we will not fail as a nation, but we will be more or less successful if we overcome together or in difference, respectively, this colossal proof of ability and intelligence. It was given this context that, from the first hour, the Government led the process of building a plan without a party identity. A personality of Portuguese life drew the possible ways, in an extraordinary exercise of deep auscultation of many agents, culminating in a public consultation that generated even more contributions. But in the way of the construction of convergence, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group carried the debate to the Assembly of the Republic to hear the author of the programme, but also the political leaders, in addition to proposing the establishment of a possible committee so that all can follow its implementation. To be together and in convergence also means saying 'no' to the conditionalities imposed by the European Union and contributing to setting goals, priorities and objectives. It is we, and not the others who come from outside, who set the parameters that defend the Portuguese. To be together also means involving the whole country in the implementation of the plan, decentralizing and providing mechanisms so that at the sub-state level, the region and the authority, for example, there is no operational void. We are together to say that we are able to converge in removing obstacles to the implementation of this ambitious programme that triples the financial resources available per year — whether legislative obstacles, governance, institutional capacity and quality — by promoting even more transparency and the fight against corruption. To be together also means respecting the options and the eligibility framework defined by the European Union. To be together in an active process of convergence means understanding the state's uncompromising role in creating conditions for the replacement of productive capacity, with particular attention to companies as the only small one able to create jobs and boost economic growth. Mr President, I would like to remind you that the agenda of the recovery plan is demanding and tight. There is no time for endless discussions, but there is room on the part of the Government and the PS Parliamentary Group so that we can converge in the interests of the country. The Portuguese demand this availability. Finally, underlining that we will do everything to honor our country, with dedication and commitment to together we will write a step of overcoming that will pride future generations. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u103	To conclude this thematic debate, requested by the Government, on the strategic vision for the economic recovery plan of Portugal 2020 - 2030, Mr. Minister of Planning, Nelson de Souza.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u104	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have concluded this debate with the expression of views, of course, of consensus, of disagreement with the proposal put forward by the Government. We confess that the relevance of the topic to our common future has generated in us perhaps expectations of a greater contribution. We will continue to wait until the time limit, which, as we know, is short in this first phase of conception and design of this program. Today we note how we intend to increase, firstly, the resilience of our country, thereby reducing the social vulnerabilities, which have shown themselves as critical as the induction factors of the pandemic, strengthening our productive potential to respond to needs not only in the fight against the pandemic, but to critical needs in times of crisis, and finally strengthening competitiveness and territorial cohesion. It was also clear how, in aligning with the twin transitions prioritized by the European Union, climate and digital, we always have the concern of translating — to these priorities, which are, in principle, Community – into projects, in options that correspond to our interests, to national interests. In the climate transition, with the definition of timetables linked to our needs in terms of rail, sustainable mobility, on-the-spot transport, energy efficiency, circular economy and decarbonisation. In the digital transition, taking advantage, in fact, of a unique opportunity to use the resources and also the potential provided by this transition, using it as the real advantage of a generalized reform of the Public Administration, promoting its orientation to serve better citizens and businesses, without, of course, neglecting this same potential as a factor of modernization and positioning of our companies, especially smaller companies, in order to exploit the full potential of the digital economy. This was the architecture of the recovery and resilience plan that we brought the debate today. In one way or another, some with more vocality and others with less, almost all right-wing parties criticised in this plan an alleged excessive allocation of funds to the State. This is an assessment that we consider very limited and reducing, only supported in a short view, in the accounting of the financing quinnan directly allocated to companies. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is limited, because it does not take into account that public investment is expected that the State will produce goods and services that will reduce context costs for businesses and provide better collective services to citizens, including business workers. This improves the overall context that increases the favourable context for improving the productivity of the economic activity as a whole. Improving the conditions of citizens, improving the living conditions of people also improves the overall productivity in the global context of our economy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But it is also a reduction in vision because it ignores the demand generated by public investment in construction, public works, equipment, transport and ICT services ( information and communication technologies ). Finally, the ideological obsession on the right against the role of the State prevents it from realizing, after all, what is obvious: the private sector is not, under current circumstances, in the best conditions to do what the crisis and recovery situation requires it to be done in the economy, which is to invest. Recovery can only go through the promotion of public investment and it is only the State that can, in these circumstances, promote and play that role. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In a swift manner, it is sufficient to look at the prescribers, analysts, economists, the ECB ( the European Central Bank ), the IMF ( International Monetary Fund ), the OECD ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ), to see that they all recommend the adoption of economic stimulus programmes using public investment as leverage.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u105	Mr Minister, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u106	I'm done now, Mr. President. I would like to give a final word on an essential issue which has been put by a number of analysts in various opinions, even from the parties represented here in this House, which concerns the need to pay particular attention to management and control systems, in order to avoid situations or fraudulent use, or to divert the use of this large amount of funds.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u107	You must conclude, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u108	What we want to say is that we are particularly sensitive to studying new and strengthened means, including by transforming and modifying the current "black box", which, in the eyes of users and the generality of citizens, is the current fund management and control system, creating a system of "glass walls" which, while ensuring the proper use of funds, promotes the efficiency and speed we all want. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u109	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have thus concluded the first item on our agenda today. We move on to the second point, which is the preparatory debate of the European Council, under Article 4(1) ( a ). the Law of Monitoring, Appreciation and Pronunciation by the Assembly of the Republic in the framework of the European Union Construction Process. To open the debate, Mr Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u110	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As you are aware, the European Council was unexpectedly postponed to the beginning of October and has on the agenda several external relations issues, starting with information and a debate on the summit between the European Union and China, the strategic discussion of the Union's relationship with Turkey, the assessment of the situation in the Eastern Mediterranean and perhaps a point of view on Brexit. However, the most important points of this Council have to do with the debate about strengthening the internal market, developing industrial policy and developing the strategy for digital transition. in this sense, I believe it is important to underline the proposals for conclusions presented, with a very clear statement of the need to strengthen our internal market and, in particular, to remove the remaining limitations, especially in the services sector. This is a particularly important issue for us, since, within the framework of the recovery and resilience programme, we have to respond to specific recommendations for Portugal, and one of the most repeated and, once again, consistent with the recommendations of 2019 is the need to reform the situation of regulated professions, which has long been delayed and blocked and which, now, has to be unlocked. This view on strengthening the internal market also goes through a review of competition policy, which must take account of the need to accelerate innovation for digital and climate transition and take into account the global environment in which we are integrated. It is important, therefore, that the conclusions underline the importance of investment in education, vocational training and skills training in order to increase our capacity to compete in the global economy. Important note: it is a very significant rupture with the liberal views of the past that Europe has even to have an industrial policy and that this industrial policy must allow and rely on the strengthening of a set of strategic alliances, which are, in fact, well-identified, such as those that allow the production of raw materials, medical equipment, microprocessors, the security of telecommunications networks, low carbon industries and the cloud industry and digital platforms. It is in this context that the Council stresses the importance of strengthening projects of European interest, including the Alliance for Clean Hydrogen, whose leadership Portugal is proud to be part of. I would also like to stress the importance that the Council attaches to the need for greater cooperation in the area of space industry and the integration of defence industries. A concern that we have as a whole of these dimensions, both digital and industrial policy development, has to do with the need to ensure a balance between the effort of cohesion and the effort of convergence for small and medium-sized enterprises and the need to strengthen European nuclei that have the capacity to compete in the global economy. We are advocates of industrial policy, but we are not advocates of European centralisation which aggravates asymmetries against cohesion and convergence. One of the riches and forces of the internal market is precisely that of being able to mobilise, in a decentralized way, those that are the contributions of the knowledge networks and the production networks in each country. That is where we want to insert and I believe that the experience gained throughout this crisis shows the need to strengthen Europe's strategic autonomy and, within the framework of this strategic autonomy of Europe, to affirm Portugal as an important support for the development of the European industrial base. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u111	Mr Capoulas Santos has the floor by the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u112	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: About two months ago, with the strong contribution of Portugal, history was made in the European Union and the cycle of disbelief and degradation of the European project that we had witnessed was reversed. The July Council was undoubtedly one of the most important small steps, translated into concrete actions, to which Robert Schuman referred as a method of European construction. I do not want to say with this that all contradictions have been healed and that the fundamental values of the European Union have become shared by all. Of course not. Despite the hopeful signal given by the July Council, however, we must not forget that the same leaders who have broken the impasse of the multi-annual financial framework and who have enshrined until recently the unthinkable principle of mutualisation of debt are the same ones who have proved themselves incapable of things apparently as simple as the establishment of common rules for border management in the context of pandemic or convergence on relevant external policy issues, where a strong and coherent position of the European Union is increasingly needed. It makes all the sense, therefore, without forgetting that the final process of adoption of the July decisions, in the context of codecision with the European Parliament, still happens, that the Council meets to discuss issues as relevant as strengthening the single market, the strategy for reindustrialisation or digital transition, as well as key issues of foreign policy, such as tension in the Eastern Mediterranean, relations with China, Russia and the crisis in Belarus. In addition, even if it is not formally included in the agenda, the apparent bad outcome of the Brexit negotiations, which appears to be increasingly conceivable, will certainly not fail to stand on the members of the Council, as Mr President has already admitted. This is certainly a Council for which the Prime Minister of Portugal is quite calm. The positions of the Commission and the majority of the Council, on the issues on the agenda, are generally consistent with the Portuguese positions, as demonstrated by the guidelines of the Government Programme, the programme of the trio of presidencies or the general architecture of the recovery and resilience plan we have just discussed in this House a few minutes ago. in these terms, besides congratulating him for his performance, on behalf of Portugal, and for the added protagonist that he will have from January, with the Portuguese presidency, I would like to ask three questions. The first question is this: given the importance of the rapid availability of financial resources, including the recovery plan, as provided for the possibility of a timely agreement on own resources in the context of codecision with the European Parliament, where in fact the Portuguese MEPs Margarida Marques and José Manuel Fernandes have played a prominent role in the negotiating team? The second question is this: after Turkey caused the current tension in the Eastern Mediterranean, how does the Turkish President's statement yesterday at the United Nations General Assembly, which called for a regional conference on Cyprus and Greece, in the conflict with the European Union? Finally, as the future presidency of the Council, as regards the prospect of, on the first day of Portuguese presidency, on 1 January 2021, being confronted with the possible first day of the chaotic relationship with the United Kingdom? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u113	The PS Parliamentary Group continues to use the word. You now have the floor, Mrs Edite Estrela, for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u114	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The reason for the postponement of the European Council for this week shows that we live in enormous uncertainty: uncertainty about the evolution of the epidemic, uncertainty about the depth of the economic crisis, uncertainty about the future. We do not know what Europe will look like after this global crisis, whether it will be able to make its values prevail, combat nationalism and populism, defend the rule of law and democracy, promote the well-being of citizens. No one can guarantee that we will not face great difficulties, but the European Council can and must take the decisions that citizens expect and that the moment demands. It has already been mentioned that the Council was well aware when it adopted unprecedented instruments and resources to accelerate the recovery of the economy, resources, which are expected to reach those who need them quickly. With this agreement, it was demonstrated that when European decision makers join in the same objective, there is no impossible. Mr Prime Minister has already referred to the important issues on the agenda of the European Council. I would like to use a slogan which was used by the President of the Commission and which is also widely used by Mr Prime Minister, « leave no one behind», that the European Council should also speak on the situation in Belarus, which was next to the people and those who, with enormous courage and despite violent repression, arrests, wounded and even dead, continue to manifest themselves, claiming freedom, democracy and free elections. I know, knowingly, why I was able to confirm last November, as a member of the delegation to observe the legislative elections, that electoral fraud in Belarus is recurrent. Regarding the digital transition, the PS has long included the topic in the political agenda, including the programme that was covered by Portuguese and Portuguese. The Government programme gives it due importance and also in the recovery and resilience plan it is given great development. Therefore, Prime Minister, I would like you to pay attention to this and to tell me how important it will be for this issue of digital transition in the European Council, given that the pandemic crisis has confirmed that digital technologies are revolutionizing the world, but at the same time it has made more evident and deepened the gap between « linked » and « unrelated », between those with computers and those without computers, between those with digital and those without digital competences. Digital inequality is a real risk that must be guarded.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u115	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u116	I'm done now, Mr. President. This is the warning coming from the United Nations: the digital world is working with many benefits, but not in the same way for all. It is therefore necessary for the Council to take decisions to support small and medium-sized enterprises in digital transformation and development, as the Prime Minister has already said, of digital capacities in school and training programmes, in order to prevent new inequalities from adding to the old. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u117	Mrs Isabel Meireles of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u118	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In the speech on the state of the Union, the President of the European Commission presented his vision for Europe, which he considered to be conditioned by the pandemic, in fact, as seen by the postponement of this European Council. This state has a double front: that of the health crisis and health protection and that of the economic and social crisis, in the face of this shock of absolutely gigantic proportions in the economies, in the destruction of jobs, income and businesses. I hope that the Portuguese Government at the next European Council will continue to take strong action to defend the interests of Portugal and Portuguese in the face of some contradictions in this area. I'm going to explain: we all know that we need a vaccine for COVID-19. So this means we need more research and more innovation. Therefore, it is not clear how it was possible to reduce the Horizon Europe programme, which is a strong health program and which does not coincide with these cuts. The PSD advocates the strengthening of this European programme and I wonder what the position of the government is in this regard. The President of the European Commission, on the other hand, announced in the European Parliament a new pact on migration. The idea is to put an end to the, finally, almost useless Dublin System, already 30 years old, and to pursue an approach based, firstly, on humanity, secondly, on solidarity and, thirdly and not least importantly, on the clear distinction between those who have the right to remain in European territory and those who do not have that right. Mr. Prime Minister, on this issue, I recall that in recent months the coast of Algarve has registered successive landings of illegal migrants from North Africa. There is no doubt that Portugal entered phase B of the arrival of migrants. Although we recognize that the matter is complex, we feel that the government is not doing everything that it can. If he is, we have no knowledge. Does the Government confirm that there are, in fact, organized networks of illegal migrants to the Algarve? Or does the Government continue to say, as your Minister of Internal Administration has done, that these illegal traffic networks are ridiculous? What operational measures, including detention centres, which do not exist — migrants are put on barracks or fleeing — and monitoring will be implemented? How does the Government intend to implement all these measures to sustain the progress of these flows, which, in the medium term, or, perhaps, in the immediate future, may be a time bomb, perhaps, a second field of Moria? Is there still progress in this area on the future migration agreement with Morocco and other States? The problem of migration is a challenge for the whole of Europe, as we know, but the worst thing can be done is to get into a state of denial. Does the Government intend to take this opportunity to address this issue at the next European Council, which now also enters our doors? Within the framework of the strategic framework with Turkey, which, as we know, is one of the countries that has served as a buffer to the vacancies of immigrants from Syria, this issue will be re-established in the Portuguese Presidency? I would also like to get a more direct answer to the issue of Brexit. The recent developments make us sound alarm trumpetes: the insensitivity to peace in Northern Ireland, which has been so laboriously achieved and which may be at risk, namely the Agreement of Holy Friday ; the blind closure to Europe ; the primary and populist rhetoric; the breaking of international agreements. Twitter diplomacy was no longer enough, and now we have piracy diplomacy against international laws. in this context, Boris Johnson's threat to break the Brexit agreement led, as we know, Portugal to redeploy and revisit its contingency plan. We recall the obligation of the Government to protect the rights of Portuguese citizens residing, working and studying in the United Kingdom. In addition, this contingency programme, as I recall, had a very important aspect of technical and financial support for economic operators. Will this support continue to be defended? What is the government planning to do in this area? That is, there are three crucial issues: the question of a common health policy; the question of migration, the plan for migration; and the issue of Brexit. He asked, Mr Prime Minister, if possible to answer all these questions to me, if possible, because a man or woman, when they take up a public service, must be considered public property and therefore with a full obligation to answer. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u119	Mr Fabíola Cardoso has the floor by the Left Block Parliamentary Group for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u120	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Once again, the COVID-19 has shown us, everyone and everyone, our fragility, personal and collective fragility, which led in particular to the postponement of the European Council, due to the quarantine of its President. The European response to the pandemic aims to increase the Union's resilience. Resilience, for biology, is the ability to recover an ecosystem from an imbalance. Building a more resilient Europe will mean not only recovering from the health, social and economic crisis we are going through, but also making the structural changes necessary for a more sustainable, innovative and just Union. It will mean thinking and carrying out a shared project, capable of facing future crises, whether health, environmental or political. Building a more resilient Europe means having not only new investment instruments, which are not yet true, but also political courage to apply these funds in the reforms needed to make the Union more inclusive and democratic. We must abandon an economic and social model based on exploitation of precarious labour, addicted to fossil economies and focused on the logic of immediate profit, exploring the planet and destroying futures. Resilience also means changing, making the transition or transitions—green, fair, digital—but seriously, not only on paper. We must effectively improve living conditions, guarantee rights at work, so that this resilience materializes. We must learn from the pandemic crisis and ensure a public investment plan that does not overburden national debt or bring austerity to the future. The proposals of the Left Block are clear, both for the emergency and for the profound changes needed for the future. Digitize, yes, but protecting jobs and incomes of all those who work in Europe, effectively reducing precariousness, rebuilding collective working relationships, including digital and telework platforms. Produce, yes, but defend strong, universal and free public services, health and education, but also telecommunications, science, culture, housing; ensure that no one stays behind without effective social protection and care. To innovate, yes, but to combat climate change, reducing external dependence, whether it is food, industrial or energy. External relations, yes, but also strengthening the rule of law in the Union, ensuring equality and dignity for all persons before the law, freedom of the press, independence of powers, combating racism and all forms of discrimination. Do you agree with these priorities, Prime Minister? Are these also the criteria to be met by whom European support is being given? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u121	Even in the time of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Beatriz Gomes Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u122	Good afternoon, Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mrs. Deputies, Mr. Members: The human emergency in Moria refugee camps exposes the failure of the 'Europe-fortress' border policies, which treats all asylum seekers as unwanted or hampered. The fire that destroyed Moria's refugee camp unleashed inhumanity, indifference to the fundamental rights of thousands of people fleeing the war, ideological persecution and hunger. The situation on the border between Greece and Turkey has worsened by the increase in the number of refugees fleeing the war in Syria. The President of Turkey, by resigning from the subcontracting agreement on border policies, has opened the door to hundreds of thousands of people who accumulate in overcrowded detention centres with a lack of health and safety conditions. Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members and Members of Parliament : In the Moria field, with a lot of four times greater than its capacity, there are about 13,000 people, including minors who are unaccompanied, pregnant and chronic patients. With the pandemic, the serious human crisis adds a serious health crisis, because precarious conditions make it impossible to distance physically and comply with the recommended hygiene measures. The Greek government, in the face of this human crisis, persists in prison policy and advances in the construction of a new field and represses, with police shock and tear gas, the protests of refugees who claim freedom and rise against the construction of temporary shelters that perpetuate their detention. Mr Prime Minister, the European Union's response is insufficient and does not change the paradigm based on detention, contrary to humanist values and the defence of human rights. The European Commission has presented the Pact for Migration and, in order to succeed, where it has failed in the past, three essential measures are needed: to change the paradigm based on detention and to give priority to the rights of people; to implement the arrangements for the resettlement of refugees; and to evacuate refugee camps in Greece, ensuring the implementation of mechanisms for the effective sharing of responsibilities between Member States.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u123	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u124	Do you agree with these proposals, Prime Minister? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u125	It is the time of the PCP Parliamentary Group. Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u126	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : In view of the agenda set out for the next session of the European Council, they gain more attention and strength from the concerns and warnings of the CFP regarding the policy options that determine the direction of priorities at the economic level, from the moment recently announced by the President of the European Commission. Once again, it is the same recipe for concentration of political power and domination at the supranational level, including enlargement to new sectors and areas of action—such as health—, always in the name of the angelic harmonisation or articulation, to hide the real strategies of accumulation of profit, degradation of public services, deregulation of the various plans. It is the continuation, with other clothes and rhetoric, of even neoliberal federalism, announcing the conclusion of the Union of Capital Markets and the Banking Union, or proclaiming a reindustrialization that serves, essentially, the most powerful economies. Despite what Mr. Prime Minister has said now, the Government itself has already come to the point of defending in this Parliament in the Assembly of the Republic, this foreign idea of European industrial sovereignty, as if we were all on the same boat and as if the defence of the national industry and our productive sectors were indispensable or equivalent in the great powers of the European Union!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u127	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u128	Mr. Prime Minister, only anyone who wants to be deceived will believe that, in industrial policies, it is all a great European family, whether EFAC (Electric Machinery Factory Company, SARL) or ThyssenKrupp, TAP or Lufthansa, the Alfeite Arsenal or HDW (Howaldtswerke-Deutsche Werft)! At the time when money from Community funds is announced and when the Government prepares to submit the so-called recovery and resilience plan to the European Union, the CFP stresses the need for the country to have a sovereign right to decide on the application of these funds in accordance with national interest. We must defend the productive sectors, the development and sovereignty of our country. Let us not fail to say: Portugal needs to implement a sovereign development project, free from the interests of the great powers and monopolistic groups and the constraints and constraints of the euro and of the European Union. Portugal needs a project that, by rescuing important elements of its economic sovereignty, taking advantage of its resources, recovering the public control of strategic sectors and essential instruments to address structural problems and deficits, ensuring the release of submission to the euro and the renegotiation of public debt, which are strongly committed to improving living conditions, raising rights, valuing work and workers, public investment, increasing national production and improving public services. And, in the field of international relations, when the money and warlords embrace new interference and aggression against countries and peoples, I leave a challenge to Mr. Prime Minister: do something, if possible, to bring to the European Council the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic and read, aloud, Article 7. o. Maybe someone learns something! We must combat this vision of power of empire, external interference, military escalation, neocolonial Saudiism, torpedoing of legality by those who intend to overthrow governments while celebrating business with occupying powers. No, sir. Members, we must comply with the Constitution, defend peace and respect for sovereignty and international law. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u129	It is the Parliamentary Group of the CDS-PP. Mr Pinho de Almeida has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u130	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Members: I would like to begin by stressing the importance and satisfaction of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group that we are having this debate. Not outside the veto of Mr President of the Republic, this was one of the debates that would no longer exist.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u131	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u132	Taking the example of the previous debate, it seems clear to me that ending 15-year debates now turned into thematic debates does not bring any advantage to the political debate, and ending European debates would also not bring about. Regardless of the different perspectives we have — and they are substantially different — it is indisputable that this debate and this scrutiny are fundamental to what we all always say we want, that is, a culture of participation in the European project. No one has ever realized how much greater participation and proximity to the European project was advocated and ended with the moment of debate in Parliament before each European Council. We have succeeded until this time in discussing a Council which will no longer happen on the due date and which will only happen later, but I am glad that it is. The Council's agenda is concentrated on the essential points of the post-pandamy, of course, on the question of the internal market, how it was affected and how we can restore it. It is curious until the Prime Minister attacks the liberal view, when one of the fundamental issues on the Council's own agenda is that of the European free market. Obviously, we greet this, but then we do not understand the criticism made. It is also important that we deal with the freedom of movement of persons and the restoration of this freedom of movement, the importance of European criteria for this freedom to be viable and functioning, without any barriers. There are still barriers and, of course, we all wish that there will be no more, but with certainty, so that we can all take a path in which, after that, we do not turn back. For this, external relations are also very relevant. At the first point, on the internal market, there is a question that I wanted to put to Mr Prime Minister and that I think it would be important for Portugal to defend in the context of this Council. There was a proposal on the table for the establishment, in Portuguese, of an instrument to support the solvency of companies which had even substantial funds. This mechanism was important for countries such as Portugal for a simple reason: there were other countries, with other possibilities, which gave support to their companies higher than Portugal gave to their companies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u133	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u134	Therefore, in the return and reopening of the market, there is a problem of competitiveness for those who have received less support than competitors who have received other types of support. The European Commission has provided for a mechanism to balance this situation, the European Parliament supports this mechanism, but there is no majority in the Council to approve it. I ask whether Mr President will defend the interests of Portuguese companies, their solvency, of the resolution of one of the biggest problems facing the national economy, which is the lack of capital, in order to allow Portuguese companies to have a scholarship to have that competitiveness. Since the time is running out, I would only say, with regard to external relations, that it seems to us to be the following: it is very important — it has already been said by other parties — the issue of Belarus. It is vital that Portugal emphasises in this Council the defence of clear rules of democracy and respect for freedom of political participation.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u135	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u136	For this reason Portugal, which is an exemplary country in these matters, must fight to ensure that countries on the Union's borders do not continue to do and run over human rights and political participation, as has happened in Belarus. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u137	It is the turn of the PAN Parliamentary Group. Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u138	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have heard Mr. Prime Minister, a short time ago, about Europe's strategic autonomy or economic recovery, concerns we share, but the issues we would like to bring today relate to the humanitarian values of the European project. In addition to the questions left by the other parliamentary groups concerning Belarus, we would like to speak of a particular case which relates to the fact that the health crisis has not caused the human crisis in the Moria field to disappear, a field overcrowded to which NGOs themselves (non-governmental organisations) have called « hell on earth ». In fact, the technocracy of Brussels has finally ignored this scourge over the years. There are absolutely outraged conditions in the Greek fields that have been known for a long time. If nothing is done, we will be able to see this tragedy repeated in Kara Tepe, which is now one of Europe's largest migrant camps. While we are discussing in Kara Tepe, the migrants, where children are included, coming from Moria, have only one bathroom for every 500 people, have no water, have no light, live under the outbreaks of COVID, without any medical aid or medicines, in an absolutely outraged human situation and to which we cannot close our eyes. Mr Prime Minister, it seems to us, therefore, that it is essential that Europe and Portugal have a more effective policy with regard to the reception of migrants, beginning with the anticipation of the reception, particularly those who are in these absolutely deplorable and inhuman conditions, rather than the reception only when there are media tragedies. We cannot continue to waste European funds, as has recently happened in the case of the City Council of Lisbon. We need a policy that effectively integrates these people, which guarantees them employment and housing. This reception cannot only be of 18 or 24 months, ending up with other opportunities, especially in other countries, and the promotion and dynamisation of the Asylum, Migration and Integration Fund and also the creation of public housing supply and, of course, improving the follow-up of these people. Therefore, Mr Prime Minister, it seems to us that it is essential to understand what the Government will do, after all, how it will raise awareness of the European Council's urgency to change structurally, respecting the human rights of these refugees. In conclusion, Mr. Prime Minister, an indisputable issue seems to us also to be the new Hong Kong National Security Act, which puts at risk the most basic rights of pro-democracy activists. The European Union has already recommended in July the adoption of a set of measures to the Member States, ranging from the weighting of the suspension of extradition agreements with Hong Kong. Portugal has not yet spoken. So I ask you, Prime Minister, what is the Government's view on the suspension of the extradition agreement with Hong Kong? Until Portugal and Europe continue to close their eyes to a regime that systematically passes over the most basic human rights?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u139	I have the floor, Mr José Luís Ferreira, of the Parliamentary Group of the Green Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u140	Mr President, Prime Minister, the next European Council should focus its attention on the response to the crisis that Europe is experiencing following the pandemic. What we need is concrete answers, not false European solidarity and principles, which, in fact, are strictly in place on a daily basis. Therefore, in our view, the European Union cannot continue to legitimize inequalities, allowing competition and the greed of the single market to prevail, which also continues to dictate unfavorable conditions for Portugal. Therefore, it makes every sense to continue to demand another direction for the European Union. On digital transformation, also on the table, The Greens reaffirm that it can be an opportunity to improve sustainability and efficiency and, without neglecting the potential of digitisation — in fact, for a long time now that the Greens have proposals in this field — still we cannot ignore the damaging consequences of their realization in the capitalist context, which is what the European Union defends and represents. Mr Prime Minister, the Greens are still concerned about the Energy Charter Treaty, which is already going into the second round of negotiations and which has already deserved a question on our part, but whose response by the Government has raised many concerns. The Government states that it has never put an end to this treaty, preferring to work with European partners in order to modernise it. But even with all the amendments that the European Commission says it intends to do, which is, in fact, unlikely to happen, this Treaty will remain incompatible with the objectives of the Paris Agreement. Mr Prime Minister, the question I want to ask is whether the Government has the intention to remain in the Energy Charter Treaty, even knowing that every day that passes without abandoning the Energy Charter Treaty is one day lost and knowing that nothing is impossible for Portugal to participate in the process of modernisation and at the same time weighs the possibility of abandoning the Treaty, even if there is no relevant change. The question is whether the Government intends to remain in this Treaty even if it is aware that it poses a threat to the climate and to the development of the Paris Agreement in the fight against climate change.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u141	You have the floor, Mr Ventura, for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u142	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Government members have made it clear that the only strategy the Government has to combat the crisis is to be hand-held to Europe. There's no other one. It is to wait for the money that comes, to see when it comes and in despair, because, if it does not arrive, such a Ronaldo do not leave any miracle that allows the strength of our economy. I would like to ask what will be the position of the Portuguese Government on the air corridors that continue to be closed to us in the face of the unbelievable passivity of a government that lets tourism die in the Algarve in the North with the consistent and permanent closure of air corridors without a word from the Government and with very dubious words from the President of the Republic. Mr Prime Minister, the Portuguese economy, at the height of the pandemic, was the fourth largest in the euro area. This already shows the fragility of our economic fabric. What are we going to do, what are we going to do and what strategy will we have in Europe to avoid the same, the richest countries in Europe, being benefited and the Portuguese economy again being affected by the increase in debt and the pressure on their public accounts? Why does Europe's money come only in 2021 when it was consensual among all the Member States that this was the biggest crisis in our lives? Why was it not possible to avoid the Brussels bureaucracy so that money could still arrive, for example, until December of this year and at least save jobs, businesses and families? It is always stronger bureaucracy than the need and objective to help those who need it most, except when it is to pay taxes! There, they're always here to charge them! Mr Prime Minister, we know today that the European Union has proposed a new Pact on Migration and Asylum, in which it is proposed that the Member States should now come with new contributions — new contributions! — so that we can find migrants at the entry of Europe and bring them to any other part of the European Union.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u143	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u144	I will finish, Mr. President. I have already told us today that there will be more European taxes. I'd like you to tell us what Portugal is going to say to more contributions to get people at the European Union's external border when we have homeless people here in the city of Lisbon. That's what I'd like you to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u145	Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u146	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: I would particularly like to greet Mr Prime Minister, because we have two debates today on the same day is a luxury, especially after the PSD and PS have decided to end the 15-year debates. As for the European Council, although it has been postponed for the next week, but I suppose with the same agenda it would like to recall the following. The European Union is an area of free movement and free trade in goods and services, but unfortunately some feel that it is also an area of trade in values and principles. For us, liberals, it's not! Europe should not be sold on a plate of lentils, Europe should have the courage to face those who, irrespective of their power, violate the rights and freedoms of the citizens of Europe. The Liberal Initiative therefore calls on the Prime Minister to represent Portugal and to play an active role in defining European sanctions to apply to the oppressive political leaders in Belarus. I am pleased that I am not, at last, the only one talking about this issue today, just as I am not the only one speaking about Hong Kong territory and defending that Europe is also moving towards European citizens imprisoned in China, among them, a 19-year-old with Portuguese passport, whose name I will risk saying, Tsz Lun Kok, who is arrested, a month ago, without access to the lawyer, without being able to contact the family, under conditions that we have not even imagined. The Government must urgently take this issue to the Council and the Portuguese diplomatic services must demand that it be able to visit it and to learn about its state, something planned under the humanitarian legal field. With regard to the single market and industrial policy, it must be said that Portugal's decision-making power cannot be extended to that of Europe without discussion. It is normal that there are criteria in the application of funds, but it is not normal that the priorities, objectives and distribution of funds are imposed directly, from top to bottom, as if countries were all equal and with little or no knowledge of what Portuguese society needs and is prepared to do. I am taking part in a point which I have already stressed in my speech just now: the enormous importance of having a governance structure of the funds at European and national level, which is in line with the ambition and novelty of this recovery plan.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u147	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u148	I shall conclude, Mr President, by saying the following: no one still knows well how and who will evaluate, select and monitor the projects that will be supported. No one has yet realized how it can be ensured that this time there will be social return and economic return on investments. No one has yet convinced us that, in the end, we do not end only once again by enlarging the public debt mountain and lamenting a lost opportunity.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u149	You have the floor to close this European debate, Prime Minister Antonio Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u150	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Thank you very much for all the questions. Firstly, starting by responding to Mr Capoulas Santos — whom I particularly welcome as Chairman of the Committee on European Affairs — with regard to the agreement with the European Parliament, what I hope is that he will carry out as soon as possible. Europe faces a very serious crisis. What we have said, from the outset, is that we need a robust and European response to this crisis, which is global, and with great effort it was possible to reach an agreement which, as I said, was a historic step taken in the Council. Everyone must be well aware that today, within the 27th century, there are geometrically very varied views on what the Union should be. This is possibly less clear in the European Parliament, which is organized more around political families than in the expression of the specific interest of each State, but which then within the Council becomes particularly evident and in a transversal way to all political families. I therefore believe that it is absolutely essential to take into account that the agreement reached in the Council can very hardly be extended either to accommodate the ambition of having more generous budgets for the decentralised management programmes of the European Union, such as Horizon 2020, or to maintain mechanisms such as the insolvency mechanism, or to extend the criteria for access to funds in a more demanding way than that agreed in the Council. I therefore hope that the dialogue between the institutions will be successful and that this mechanism will be available as soon as possible from 1 January next. Sometimes what is difficult happens: this week, against the expectations of many, was given the last national guarantee that was missing so that the program SURE (Support you the mitigate Employment Risks in an Emergency) could be available. From next month it will be available. Let us hope that this agreement with the European Parliament will also be effective. In dialogue with Turkey, of course we have a totally supportive position with Greece and Cyprus. We believe that it is essential that there is, on the one hand, the development of all platforms for dialogue and that Turkey is an all-in-one ally of all of us in NATO ( North Atlantic Treaty Organization ), which has a geostrategic position of greatest importance for NATO and which is, at the same time, a country with which the European Union has been maintaining, for decades, a relationship at least misleading. I believe that there will be no understanding with Turkey until we stop misconceptions and assume once and for all what should be the basis for future relations between the European Union and Turkey. That is why what we have insisted on and what we will contribute to in the Council is that, once and for all, we have a frank debate and a clear decision on the kind of relationship we want to maintain with Turkey in the future. As far as the United Kingdom is concerned, the only thing we can say right now is to reiterate what is a principle of international law: treaties are not broken, complied with, and the exit agreement exists and the United Kingdom must comply with it. Mrs Edite Estrela stressed, as well as several Mrs. Members, the need to have a clear position with regard to the violation of human rights and the defence of public and political freedoms in Belarus. That is the position we will have and we will defend. On the question of migration, which has been put by several Members. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say — allow me, Mrs Isabel Meireles, that this problem has not touched us now because there have been signs of a new Atlantic route of access to Europe. This is a problem that has affected us since the first migrant or refugee arrived in any country in the European Union. This is not a national problem, contrary to what Mr Ventura thinks, it is even a problem of the whole of the European Union and to which we have to answer in solidarity. That is why we support solidarity in the distribution of candidates for international protection in the European Union, which is why we have already received around 360 refugees from Italy and 1200 from Greece and have a complementary agreement with Greece so that we can receive more than 1000 refugees and in particular that we can receive 500 unaccompanied minors from Greece. There was hardly a fire in Moria, I myself informed my Greek colleague that we were in a position to receive immediately 100 refugees and 20 unaccompanied minors from Greece, also transmitting our availability to the German presidency. That is why we have also voluntarily participated in all the ad hoc reception operations that have been requested by Malta, Italy and Greece, and we will continue to participate in all of them. Therefore, Mr Ventura, he has two bad news: not only do I hope that there will be European taxes so that the Union's own funds will not be strengthened with national contributions but with the taxes of those who do not pay taxes in Europe, even though it will enrich Europe, as it does with the major international platforms, as we really want to participate in the effort that Europe must develop to ensure international protection to which it lacks. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I don't have much time, but I'm going to answer the last questions. Mrs Fabíola Cardoso asked me if I agree. Yeah, I agree. And I therefore agree that it is unfortunate that you did not intervene in the previous debate, where the issue was precisely under discussion and where the proposal we have of the recovery and resilience programme is precisely seeking to answer the questions raised here. Mr Bruno Dias answers the same: the best way to define, in a sovereign way, what we want to defend with the Community funds is not to run away from the debate on the recovery and resilience programme, it is to participate actively in this programme and not to put ourselves into lateral debates and that do not have to do with the recovery and resilience programme. As far as industrial policy is concerned, I do not know if we agree 100 %, but we tend to agree. And that's very clear. We can even have an industrial policy because Europe cannot be in this global economy in an naive way, and Portugal cannot be in the European Union too in an naive way, so we defend the single market. But we are in favour of a single market which does not lead to the strengthening of asymmetries through the creation of large European champions, in a centralised way, but rather fully exploits the huge potential in the European Union, through the creation of decentralized networks that mobilize all scientific systems and the entire productive fabric of the 27 Member States. We always want to be an active part in building this strategic autonomy of Europe and not have a passive position in this context of European industrial policy. And there is no contradiction in this, Mr. João Almeida, in defending this strength of the internal market but in defending that within the internal market, as in all markets, we cannot wait for the invisible hand and we must ensure that there is indeed a mechanism for correcting asymmetries that ensures a level playing field among all those who are participants in the internal market. For us, on the internal market, there is no stock exchange. The values are those that are stated in our Constitution, which are stated in the history of our democracy. They have no borders, either in Europe or worldwide. We therefore defend it in a universal way, both within the European Union and in the specific case concerning China, on the basis of our bilateral relations. And it is through these diplomatic channels that we have been following the situation of Portuguese citizens who are also Chinese citizens, who deserve particular concern and attention and who have been accompanied by the competent diplomatic channels, and so we will continue to proceed. Allow me alone, Mr President, to not fail to reply to Mr José Luís Ferreira, to say that, yes, there is no incompatibility for us to be loyal to a treaty that we are part of and to continue to defend what is essential, which is to comply with the Paris Agreement and was to fulfil even as we established in our National Energy and Climate Plan the goals that are more ambitious than those that are contained in the Paris Agreement. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-23.u151	We have thus reached the end of this debate and also of our agenda today. I thank the members of the Government here present and the Prime Minister in particular. Our plenary meeting tomorrow will start at 3 p.m. on the agenda of the next item. of the first point is the assessment of the Resolution Project No 307 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of measures to enhance associations that promote gender balance in their social bodies. The second point will be followed by discussion of draft resolution No 582 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Economic and Social Response Programme for the Algarve. At the third point, we will discuss, together and in general, the Bills Nos 414 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Densifies the legal regime applicable to the transmission of an undertaking or establishment by clarifying its application in the situations of providing surveillance, feeding or cleaning services ( Sixteenth amendment to the Labour Code ), 448 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Introduce an interpretative standard of Article 285. that of the Labour Code, making its application mandatory for the award, by public tender, of public services and 503 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Defends and strengthens the rights of workers in the event of transmission of an undertaking or establishment, in the private sector or in the public sector, by awarding services which are carried out by public tender, direct adjustment or any other means envisaged. The fourth point consists of the joint discussion, in general, of Bill Nos 372 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Creates a scheme for strengthening workers in social equipment and repeals Ordinance No 82 - C / 2020 of 31 March, 490 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — 6 % update of the Cooperation Commitment concluded with social and solidarity sector entities and 504 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Conversion into a contract of work of the scholarships of the recruited professionals to strengthen support for households and other social equipment. of the fifth and last point is the discussion of draft resolution No 99 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends to the Government the preparation of concrete and permanent measures aimed at reducing the effects of drought, in general with Bills No 155 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Creates the national plan for structural prevention of the effects of drought and its follow-up and 502 / XIV / 1. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ) — Creates the plan to prevent and adapt the territory to the effects of drought. Thank you all very much, a good late afternoon and until tomorrow. The session is closed. [[It was 18 hours and 28 minutes.]]
