ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. The session is open. [[It was 16 hours and 3 minutes.]] There will be no order to open the galleries, since they will remain closed today. [[Pause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, there are not representatives of all parliamentary groups here, but I would like to inform you that the message from the President of the Republic on the possible statement of the state of emergency has now arrived. This message will be distributed by the leaders of the parliamentary groups who obviously need time to proceed with proper analysis. So I now suspend the work, which will be resumed at 5 p.m. Thank you very much, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen. The session is interrupted. [[It was 16 hours and 5 minutes.]] [[In the meantime, President Eduardo Ferro Rodrigues took the presidency.]] Mr President — Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists. The session is reopened. [[It was 17 hours and 5 minutes.]] As you know, the first item on the agenda is a debate on the request for authorization of the state of emergency declaration. This session began an hour later than planned to give Parliamentary groups time to discuss their positions. in this case, it will not be to propose alternatives or amendments, but to vote in favour, against or abstain, because that is what the Constitution provides. I would like to congratulate the Prime Minister and the members of the Government present. In order to start the debate, Mrs Ana Catarina Mendonça Mendes of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u2	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the governments, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Today we authorize the declaration of the state of emergency for public calamity. It is certainly a decision that we all wanted not to have to make. In the House of Democracy, it is not easy for us to vote on the transitional and partial suspension of the exercise of certain rights, freedoms and guarantees, in accordance with the decree we are considering. We know that it is at stake an important value, that of the protection of the lives of all who are threatened today by the pandemic that has hit the country, Europe and the world, but we also know that, no matter what the threat to be faced, we have always — even always! — to balance security and freedom. We don't need an excessive security. The civic responsibility of all, the full and vigilant citizenship will be, taken into account, the most effective and lasting protection. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The extended powers of the State resulting from this declaration should therefore be used with weight and proportionality. We trust that the government, which has the power to execute the declaration, will use this weighting and proportionality fully. Parliament will participate in its ongoing scrutiny to ensure the continuity of confidence in the State by all those who, like us, value the values of freedom and the democratic regime. The declaration of the state of emergency should be merely instrumental against the public health disaster in which the coronary coronavirus pandemic has become, but should never—never! — be part of the problems we are facing today. We also face an unprecedented risk of economic devastation, bringing social risks that we cannot devalue and much less aggravate with our action. The economy is made of people, and many of them have no alternative to work to eat, pay the house, pay the water and the light, buy medicines or take care of those who depend on them. Poverty and inequality kill in current times and kill much more in times of crisis. Saving jobs and businesses is therefore as important as supporting the incomes of those who work, as we have been doing since the last few weeks. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We know from recent memories what it means to impoverish a crisis. It is our obligation to prevent a public health crisis from turning into an economic, social and political catastrophe. We need firmness, but we also need balance. what we don't need is extremism, however popular they may seem in the times that run. The fight against the pandemic must therefore be compatible with safeguarding the conditions of our collective life. In today's world, it is a privilege to live in a democratic regime, a regime that has cost much to conquer and consolidate. We cannot devalue it, and that is why today, when we authorize the declaration of the state of emergency, we feel that we have a duty to make clear that we do so underlining its exceptional and transitional character. Even when we need it, the possibility of suspending the exercise of the rights of freedoms and guarantees is no longer an evil, even if it is a necessary evil. We know what is priority: to ensure the continuity and response capacity of our National Health Service; to strengthen the capacity to regulate our collective life, reducing the risk of infection; and, in the situation we live, we also need to strengthen the resources of the National Health Service, as it has been done. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, above all, we must have the clear notion that this fight is not won tomorrow. This isn't a fight for days or weeks. This is a battle of months, and a fight thus requires weighting, gradualism and proportionality. Acting on time and hours is not wasting time, but it is also avoiding precipitation. societies are not machines, people are not machines, the knowledge needed at this time is not only that of Health Sciences and Biology, it is also the wisdom needed to preserve cohesion and social ties. [[P.S.'s applause.]] If we forgot this and somehow we rushed, the collateral damage would be gigantic. We cannot deal with the epidemic, but we must control the harmful effects of this fight. We must limit and counter the risks of economic devastation every time we extend and intensify quarantine regimes. We must control and counter the risks of devalued freedom every time we make use of the powers we have in the emergency situation in which we live. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we must ensure that people and the country survive the crisis. We know that there is a future beyond the crisis, and we will continue to live in a decent, supportive and democratic society. This is the compromise of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u3	I think there are some problems with the electronic record of Mrs and Mrs. Members, but, as you estimate, the Bureau does not know what technical problems these will be. I only ask the services to resolve them quickly. This is so that — as it has been combined in the Conference of Leaders — the quorum of operation is respected at this meeting, which means that only one in five Members should be present. However, I see that the presence of the honourable Members is massive. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Telmo Correia continues to say 'no' with his head, but that is the custom. [[CDS-PP protests.]] We'll continue with the meeting. Mr Rui Rio has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u4	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Members: COVID-19 is a public disaster with exponential growth. It is growing now — and by the next weekend it will be — at a rate of 40 % a day, which means that almost doubles in two days. It is therefore a very serious threat to Portuguese security and which requires extraordinary measures, including the limitation of fundamental rights, which other democracies are also taking and which, as we know, other democracies have slowed down. We must learn from the mistakes of others and act on time. In democracy, rights, freedoms and guarantees must be hierarchical, because in the name of a minor right we cannot call into question a greater right. For this reason, the vitality of democracy is also capable of self-limiting itself so as not to harm society at the right time. Therefore, the PSD agrees with the statement of the state of emergency for several reasons, but from then on for three that are fundamental. First, on an issue of effective combat. The government has or will have the power to use if you want and when you want, you can use if you understand and when you understand. There are measures, such as the closure of commercial establishments, which have already been implemented. So tomorrow will not have to happen anything absolutely extraordinary or anything else than what has already happened, only what the Government understands as necessary, which will not be much more, given the way the Portuguese are fulfilling, and very well, what is required of each of us. [[PSD applause.]] It is also good to say publicly that the state of emergency will not solve the problem, it will help to solve it. There are many people who think that after declaring the state of emergency the problem is soon solved, but not. That is to say, this statement will help to solve the problem sooner, but it will only be here for a few months and not immediately. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u5	The second reason is to reassure the Portuguese, who need to know that the government has the means to act at the time when it feels it has to do so. Finally, the third reason is to avoid the occurrence of judicial proceedings here for a few months, when a number of claims for compensation could begin to fall due to the unconstitutionality of measures already taken. It is therefore absolutely vital that this state of emergency be declared, which, of course, must respect the principle of proportionality as to the extent and duration of the measures and the means to be used. This is what the Government is asked to do: use as much as necessary, but do not give up on it if necessary. Mr President, here is a fundamental aspect to be considered, which is the balance between health, our health, and the non-paralyzing of economic activity. Therefore, it is clear to all of us, right now, that priority public investment is not bridges, they are not roads, nor are airports, they are protective equipment for health professionals, they are diagnostic tests and they are fans. This is an absolutely strategic public investment now for Portugal. [[PSD applause.]] The PSD supports this decree by Mr President of the Republic and will vote in favour of the authorisation. But it is also necessary for the country to know that the PSD supports the government in this fight. We're in a national emergency. We have a threat to fight. What is required is unity, solidarity between all and a sense of responsibility on behalf of the national interest. For me, in this fight, this is not a government of an opposing party, it is the Government of Portugal, which we all need to help at the moment. In the fight against this calamity the PSD is not opposition, it is collaboration. at this moment, we have to be all soldiers available to help in this fight, to help Portugal win as few casualties as possible. Mr. Prime Minister, count on the collaboration of the PSD. In everything we can, we will help. I wish you courage, steel nerves and lots of luck, because your luck is our luck. [[PSD applause, standing up, and PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u6	Mr Catarina Martins spoke for one speech by the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u7	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are experiencing an unprecedented crisis that naturally causes alarm. We see the worldwide impreparation of a virus that does not know borders and against which we do not yet have effective weapons. We received with regret the news of two fatal victims in Portugal and are supportive of the pain of their families and friends. We follow with concern the increase in the number of infected people and we hope to recover quickly from all those who are ill. We are experiencing an unprecedented crisis that, yes, requires an unprecedented response, and we see how throughout the country this response is being given. to health professionals, all of them, who are giving this unpublished answer, thank you! To the generality of the population, which is following in an exemplary manner the guidelines of the Directorate-General for Health, obliged! The security forces, public and private sector workers, which guarantee the functioning of essential services, are required! The people in surveillance and prophylactic isolation, the people of Ovar, who are under general quarantine, are all giving this unpublished answer. Thank you! We should be proud of what we are demonstrating as a country. We have maintained the essential: public serenity and a profound change of behavior, as recommended by health authorities. We do not know, however, that there may be those who are not at the moment and who are trying to take advantage of the crisis: the wave of dismissals from precarious workers we are witnessing at this time; the labour abuse of some companies that irresponsibly risk workers' health, refuse contingency plans and even the protection of risk groups; the vampireization of the National Health Service (SNS) by the private health business, which is closed in response to the crisis, in the hope of having the contractualizations of the simplest cases to which the SNS cannot now respond, because that would be doing business with the crisis. [[PSD protests.]] As is the case with companies that produce essential material to the country right now, from masks and personal protective equipment, and that opt for export. They must be called to responsibility and the government must act. We cannot tolerate those who take advantage of the crisis. [[Congratulations from BE.]] In order to act, the government needs instruments. For that, and only for that, should serve the state of emergency. On the left side of the Block, we accept this instrument as necessary by the President of the Republic and to which the Government is in favour, aware of the difficulties we face. And here we will be, within two weeks, to assess the terms of its application. The exceptional and transitional state of emergency should not be used to suspend democracy or essential rights. Within two weeks, the Government must create and impose contingency mechanisms that protect the health of workers, requiring the private health sector, to strengthen essential industrial production. This is one of the priorities: to ensure the SNS response and to support its professionals and, at the same time, to think about people and their incomes. What does the Block propose? The recognition of the health emergency and the economic and social emergency. First measures: to prohibit redundancies, evictions and cuts of light, gas, water and communications; to suspend credit benefits to housing and household income to persons who have their income severely diminished. We're not inventing the wheel. These measures are being prepared or already adopted in several countries of the European Union.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u8	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u9	It is necessary to help the economy and create support and financing packages that maintain production and employment—and I stress the modesty of the package announced by the Portuguese Government, as a percentage of the Product, when compared with that of other countries, starting with Spain. The pandemic brings with it an economic crisis. We cannot repeat the mistakes made in response to the previous crisis. Protecting employment is protecting the country and that is why it is urgent to stop dismissals. This is a condition for us to face the recessive dynamics that will be installed. The country is showing its best in citizen solidarity and demonstrated civicism. We have long weeks or months, under adverse conditions, to continue to give a dignified answer to everyone — who needs care, who is working at risk for what we all need, who is isolated and vulnerable, who lives the threat of unemployment. It will be with responsibility, with democracy and solidarity that we will overcome this crisis. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u10	It is the time of the PCP Parliamentary Group. Mr João Oliveira has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u11	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister and other members of the Government, Mr and Mr Members: In accordance with the Constitution and the law of the state of site and emergency, the declaration of the state of emergency should not be decided on the basis of abstract or theoretical considerations, it requires, rather, the reasoned verification of the existence of an exceptional framework which may justify such a decision and of the measures which, in particular, are identified as capable of being implemented on the basis of that declaration. Looking at the reality in which the country lives today, it is observed that the measures nevertheless determined in the context of the prevention and containment of the epidemic outbreak have been met in a general and voluntary manner by the populations and by the various public and private entities and institutions. The professionalism and self-denial with which professionals in the most diverse areas have made a decisive contribution to ensure that the measures implemented are fulfilled and that the country continues to function with the normality possible in the context that results from them. We also highlight the many genuine expressions of solidarity with which the Portuguese people have found solutions so that those who are in a situation of greater vulnerability do not leave and have their needs in line. It is essential that, at the political level, the necessary and appropriate measures be taken to address the public health problems, workers, the economy, the general functioning of society and — allow me too, Mr President. Members — including the operation of the Assembly of the Republic, which at this serious moment has an obligation to assume and fulfil its obligations and responsibilities, refusing to hide under the bed, suspending its operation. This is the example that we should give to all those whose work is still required and necessary.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u12	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u13	There is the possibility of adopting new measures that are appropriate and necessary to address all these problems. The Constitution and the law, including the Civil Protection Bases Act and the public health surveillance system, provide for the possibility of adopting measures for the prevention and containment of greater vigor, and the corresponding procedures are also provided for in order to ensure compliance with them. The regimes of alert, contingency and calamity provide, with some extent, for these possibilities. In this context, the possibilities for taking necessary emergency relief measures in public health, including the restriction, suspension or closure of activities or separation of persons who are not ill, means of transport and goods, which have been exposed, in order to prevent possible spread of infection or contamination; civil mobilization of persons, for specified periods of time; the establishment of limits or conditions for the movement or stay of persons, other living beings or vehicles, in particular through the submission of collective controls to prevent the spread of epidemic outbreaks; the establishment of health fences of safety; the rationalization of the use of public transport services, communications and supply of water and energy, as well as the consumption of goods of first need; the possibility of temporarily requiring goods or services in accordance with the urgency and public and national interest that substantiate the requirement, among others. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u14	This vast set of prevention and containment measures can and should, in accordance with the law, be adopted gradually, in the face of the development of worsening epidemic outbreaks. Its adoption should be considered, in accordance with the Constitution and the law, for each of the situations of alert, contingency and calamity, and the Government shall assess, in each case, the application of each of these specific regimes which are appropriate. Only in the event of failure to comply with the measures decided or the need to adopt restrictive measures of rights, freedoms and guarantees should the declaration of emergency be considered in appropriate and proportionate terms. As we have already stated, the CFP does not disregard the possibility of recourse to the state of emergency as necessary, but will abstain from the proposal which is now being presented. Finally, we want to highlight an aspect which becomes increasingly evident in national life and which, being revealing of the difficulties faced by the country and the need to take immediate action that the law already provides for to deal with them, simultaneously requires fundamental changes in the political options to be achieved. It is not acceptable for companies producing medical, clinical or pharmaceutical materials to blackmail the State regarding the increase in production and place their present and future profits in the face of the needs of health services and patients. It is not acceptable for economic groups to be able to threaten chains of distribution of essential goods, leaving in the background the needs of the people and deciding to concentrate their activity on what more profitability can guarantee immediately. Sectors and services that correspond to unpredictable social needs are not allowed to be threatened by stopping as a result of decisions to abandon production or close doors by private companies, without any form of intervention by the State which safeguard the consequences of such decisions for the people and the country. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u15	These problems require the Government to use the mechanisms it already has to place the rights of the people and the national interest in the face of the profit objectives of those seeking to take advantage of this situation. But they are also flagrant examples that the logic of capitalism and the rules of its markets do not correspond to the interests of the workers, the people and the country and that the abandonment by the State of strategic sectors over the decades now reveals itself with an unprecedented cruelty, as a sword on the head of our collective destiny as a Country and as a people. There is now no possibility of simply preventing the consequences of these wrong choices for decades of right-wing policy, but there are conditions to be found in the response to the crisis situation, which we face, the basis of an alternative policy that serves the interests of the workers and the people and the society that we need to build. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u16	For an intervention by the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, Mr Telmo Correia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u17	Mr President, at first I would like to tell you that my gesture of a short time ago, which you have sought to interpret, has only one meaning: it is not up to you to decide who the deputable or non-dependable Members are. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u18	If you want to do so, you will have to change the Constitution, because these constitutional rules do not fall within your or my competence. Let's get this straight. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u19	This moment is, for all of us, of firmness and is also, unfortunately, a moment of sorrow and mourning in our country. If we look at it - and we are all receiving this information - what is happening, for example, in countries so close and as friends, such as Spain or Italy, our concern is very great. There are 475 dead registered in Italy in the last 24 hours. That's why we need to stop this pandemic. That's why we need to do everything we can to stop this pandemic. Many proclaim, even, that we will win! Clearly, we'll win. No pandemic will stay forever. No pandemic will be eternal. The problem is not that, the problem is to know how many people we will have been able to protect, how many patients we will have been able to save when this pandemic comes to an end. The CDS — we have already said — is a patriotic party, and will not fail to appeal and call national unity. We are patriots, but we are also demanding and, in our opinion, as we have said several times, if we now need more drastic measures, this is also due to the fact that we have not adopted drastic measures for some time and because we have hesitated between the gravity or not of this same problem.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u20	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u21	That's right, Mrs. Member! And it's easy to give examples. Mrs Deputy, I asked 15 days ago because we did not control borders, because we did not control health at the borders. We were told that it was not necessary. What are we doing now? Sanitary control at the borders. I am also convinced that, for a month and a half, it was possible to have strengthened the Health Line 24. When we saw the absolute need to strengthen this Line, we were already late. We should not have allowed people coming from endemic areas to be told to make life normal! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Let's make a mistake there too. In conclusion, I leave this idea, which I think is rigorous, and that we have spoken a lot today — Mr Prime Minister has already spoken, and well, and we share his concern — of the protection material for health professionals who are not and are not coming, I would like to say that today it must be very difficult to acquire this material in the market or wherever it may be, because countries are feeling this problem, but perhaps a month or a month or a half ago it would have been possible to acquire it, it would have been possible to acquire fans that we know are the critical factor to save people in this fight. [[BE's protests.]] The first cases in Wuhan, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, they showed up on December 29, not now! As in the cancellation of flights, we've lost time, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen. But right now... [[PS protests.]] I didn't interrupt you... Right now, we have to take action, we have to make decisions. Is the Government's measures sufficient? Eventually, they won't. Other measures, for example for the social sector, are missing — and the CDS proposes — to look at a network and a very fine mesh of support for the elderly. We are asking the elderly to stay at home, we are asking the families not to go to the house of these elderly and, therefore, there must be a network at the level of the parish to reach these elderly and so they will not miss anything. We need to create these mechanisms, we need to look at the social sector. There are sectors that complain, and rightly, that they are forgotten in the midst of these measures. I give you an example, and we will be talking about this in a little bit of a bit of it when we discuss the Government's bill: the trade sector. The measures already announced go to tourism, they go to restoration, but trade, for example, still has no measures, there are no proposals. But let us be clear—and I say this on behalf of the CDS : in a situation like this, and in an emergency, who rules is the government. There is no point in doing here in Parliament a sort of contest of ideas to see who can have the most original and most popular idea when we are in emergency. Who governs is the Government, and the CDS, from that point of view, will respect the capacity and obligation of the Government itself. Sanitary cords may be necessary, but I give you one example: in Ovar, so they tell me, a set of rules were defined yesterday, but today there are factories that are working. The rules, the communication, what is said to the Portuguese must be absolutely clear and absolutely perceptible. There can be no misconceptions from this point of view. I end with a famous phrase, which has been used these days by many people, of a famous President of the United States of North America: "We hope for the best, but we will be prepared for the worst. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u22	Mr President, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u23	I'm done now, Mr. President. I believe that we are now approaching a situation where the worst is approaching us. So, our last word goes to those who are in the front line of combat: health professionals. And I use another historical phrase: "Never so many have owed so much to so few. » We are all indebted to them. It is true that the Portuguese give an example of civicism, it is true, Mr. Prime Minister, that you are the one who governs, that the command is yours and our solidarity will not be lacking. We ask for courage, but we give national unity. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u24	For an intervention, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, of the Parliamentary Group of the PAN, has the floor. However, I ask the services to prepare the electronic system for quorum verification, because, as was determined at the last conference of leaders, we will proceed to vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u25	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we are discussing here the declaration of the state of emergency in our country, a debate which, of course, none of us would expect to have when we took possession about six months ago, a debate that we all would rather not have to do. But the fight against the COVID-19 virus, an invisible, silent enemy that puts people's health and safety at risk, puts us in an exceptional emergency situation because it poses a threat to the organization of community life and our health. Exceptional situations therefore require exceptional measures such as those proposed to us today by the President of the Republic in his due and immediate proportionality. It is not easy for us to consider the application of this measure, since we are, with it, restricting the fundamental rights of citizens, the rights that have been achieved in a state of democratic law, and we are using a mechanism that has not been used for 44 years, nor in accordance with our Constitution. However, at the moment, this is the necessary measure from the point of view of caution. It is important for all citizens to realize that there is a reason for greater force that justifies that in the coming days they cannot have their normal routines. We refer to the containment of a virus that has already proved to be easily transmissible and quite dangerous for human life. This important measure, by preventing people from going to coffee, buying the newspaper, going to the park to play with their children or using public transport to go to work, but taking care of the necessary food and health needs from day to day, will enable us to ensure full compliance with the principle of social distance, so emphasized in recent weeks by the Directorate-General for Health and the World Health Organization and thus take another step towards combating COVID-19 through the prevention and safeguarding of health for all of us. Winning this struggle requires all of us, individually and collectively, surrenders, responsibility and unity. At the moment we live, more than criticism of the action of administrative entities or even sovereignty agencies, we need solidarity and convergence. In its time, the phase of the balance sheet and the independent and equidistant analysis will come, but until then, and especially today, we are called before all our citizens to respond on the front line of this battle and that of it we will not drift away until we overcome this huge challenge. It is with this common sense that the NAP today affirms its full support for the measures taken by the Government in recent days and for the proposal by the President of the Republic for the declaration of the state of emergency. It was, moreover, with this constructive stance that we have presented measures that we consider equally relevant to address this public health crisis and its various economic and social impacts, which we will continue to pursue. So, in parallel with the response that is required for other citizens, particularly in terms of labour protection, business, among others, we must take special care of the most vulnerable, such as older people, homeless or extreme poverty. But we are also particularly aware of the phenomena that the COVID-19 crisis and social isolation can boost, such as domestic violence or child abuse. We will also be careful about those who are usually at the end of the line: the animals, whom we must ensure that it is still possible to ensure their food and other care and the displacement of those who defend them daily. On this occasion, we would like to mention the immense effort of health professionals, security and relief services, supermarket workers, the freight transport sector, among others, who are daily providing different services, professionals who, in recent days, sometimes under very difficult working conditions and risking their own health, have deprived of the comfort and safeguard of their home to care for other people, or to ensure that the containment measures are respected by the community, or to ensure that the basic needs of Portuguese are assured. We want you to know, today and in each of the following days, that all citizens in our country recognize your efforts and your work and are absolutely grateful to you, and that the least we can tell them at this time is that the security conditions for the high public service they are providing to the country are guaranteed and that, of course, we do not forget the debt of gratitude that we have for them and that there are many creditors. You can not fail to call us this debt for, in the near future, and sooner or later, pay this same debt. The jewels of the crown of our country must necessarily be the National Health Service and its professionals, they must be all professionals who, daily, care for the health and safety of all of us and those who are close to us. Finally, one last word for those who are listening to us: we would lie-CL - if we told you that the next few weeks will be easy, because we all know that they won't be. However, the exemplary way in which the country's generality has behaved, scrupulously fulfilling the guidelines of the Directorate-General for Health and subjecting itself to voluntary social isolation, can only leave us with hope in the future and with confidence that as a community we will be able to overcome this difficult moment. at a time when it is essential to strengthen the measures adopted, more than to remember exceptions to the rule, it is important here to welcome the examples of civicism and collective spirit verified in the last few days to be an encouragement for the following weeks. We welcome from here the manifestations of solidarity with health professionals; we greet the children who have painted rainbows with the phrase "it will be all right"; we greet employers who, even without telework, continue to pay their wages to their workers so that they can stay in voluntary isolation without fear of their work; we welcome the solidarity network of neighbors who have built up all over the country and who volunteer to acquire essential food genres for elderly people or with health problems; we greet volunteers who go out to the street to help those who need it; and we greet the artists who, under the motto "I am at home", have mobilized to act for all citizens who are in voluntary isolation, even though they are one of the most affected classes of this crisis. Gestures like these give us hope and confidence in the future that is to come and make us believe that, even if it seems difficult, we will overcome this adversity by coming out of it stronger, as a collective, with our reinforced humanity and also our democratic rule of law.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u26	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u27	I conclude now, Mr President. Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The moment is of union and solidarity and not of political debate. They count on the PAN, obviously, to be on the same boat, on a boat that leads us out of our country more reinforced and in greater security. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u28	Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Green Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u29	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We well know that we are facing an emergency of public health of an international dimension and that the World Health Organization has classified as a pandemic. We know that we are facing a collective threat whose complexity and dimension are still very unpredictable. We are well aware that the exceptional situation we are living in and the proliferation of cases that have occurred these days require exceptional and urgent measures to strengthen or provide health services with the necessary means, to the extent possible, to deal with a problem with this gravity. in this context, it is therefore a priority to ensure to health care providers integrated in the National Health Service, the possibility to carry out the acquisition, without delay and with maximum speed, of the necessary equipment, resources and services, not only as regards the evaluation of suspected cases, but also as regards the treatment of symptoms and complications associated with the new coronavirus ( SARS-CoV-2 ). Above all, it is important to ensure that there will be no budgetary impediments that prevent services from taking the necessary measures to deal with the problem at hand and with all determination. It is necessary to ensure and prevent employers from taking advantage of the situation in order to fatten their profits at the expense of this collective threat or to unduly penalise the rights of those who work. But it is also imperative to move forward with measures that ensure the possibilities of social distance and prophylactic isolation and ensure the income of people in this situation or that they are in that situation to assist their dependents. However, in one way or another, the response to some of these situations, in global terms, came through Decree-Law No 10 - A / 2020 of 13 March, the results of which are still missing. But in addition to these measures, and in addition to the fact that there is so far no objective impossibility, any assessment of the measures taken, in terms of results, The Greens consider that within the current state of alert the Government still has space to take other measures before reaching the extreme or imperative need to establish the state of emergency. That is why the rise to start, with more drastic measures, which go through the suspension, even if partial, of citizens' rights, freedoms and guarantees, is not yet in our view fully justified, at least as long as the Portuguese continue to look calmly and continue to abide by the full sense of responsibility, the guidelines and recommendations of the public authorities, as is happening throughout the country and in the generality of the Portuguese. In other words, for the Greens, as long as there is a voluntary quarantine, there is no immediate need for additional measures to be taken through the suspension of citizens' rights. If we do an analysis of these last few days, it is clear that the children were at home even before the authorities' recommendations. Many adults began to stay at home before the recommendations and many restaurants even closed before the recommendations became generalized. And it was not even necessary for the Directorate-General for Health to publicly recognise that Portuguese are respecting the guidelines, not only on voluntary quarantine, but also on safeguarding and on the necessary social distance, because we have all been realizing this fact, which shows, in fact, that Portuguese are fully aware of what is priority and what is at stake. Therefore, in view of this scenario, the Greens, respecting the views that other political forces and other people have, which are, in fact, equally legitimate, believe that, for the time being, voluntary quarantine must prevail over more extreme measures. As long as it is possible to take this fight in line with the minimum maintenance of our collective life, as long as it is possible to combat this threat with freedom, we should not move forward to a level playing field involving the suspension of citizens' rights and freedoms. We have even admitted that the possibility of taking more drastic measures to strengthen this fight is justified, but in our view it does not seem to us that it is still time. In any case, despite the reservations we have left here with regard to the opportunity of this declaration, and also bearing in mind the delicacy of the matter we are now dealing with, as well as the extent and scope of the suspension of the rights provided for in this proposal for a declaration, the Greens will not oppose the proposal of the President of the Republic, who, after hearing the Government and the Council of State, intended to put to this House the possibility of authorising its purpose to decree the state of emergency. It is now up to us to wait — and we sincerely hope — that the declaration of the state of emergency, if it is authorized by this House, will help to strengthen the fight against this serious collective threat and that it will therefore become part of the solution to this serious problem that we will all be able to resolve and overcome together.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u30	To conclude this debate, you have the floor of Mr Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u31	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This is a debate which has a very special nature, because it is one of the rare moments when the Assembly of the Republic is discussing a legislative initiative whose initiative is solely the responsibility of the President of the Republic and where the Government only intervenes to give a favourable opinion to the proposal of the President of the Republic, and at the stage of execution, if it deserves the approval by this House. However, given the seriousness of the moment and the exceptionalness of this act, I understood that it was my duty to be here to express the unequivocal institutional solidarity of the Government towards the President of the Republic and before the Assembly of the Republic. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The authorization, by the Assembly of the Republic, of a decree of constitutional exception means, of course, that: the state of emergency being a state of constitutional exception, the rule continues to be the scrupulously respect and validity of the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic in its entirety. It is not a matter of suspending democracy, limiting or conditioning. On the contrary, it is the democratic legitimacy of this Parliament and the democratic legitimacy of the President of the Republic which confers the authority necessary to legitimately execute the decree which is to be authorized by the Assembly and approved by the President of the Republic. It is essential to realize that democracy is not suspended. On the contrary, we will continue to be an open society, free citizens and a democratic rule of law. Therefore, the law of the state of the site and of the state of emergency expressly provides that, once the state of emergency has been declared, the Attorney-General of the Republic must function permanently for the control of legality and the Ombudsman must function permanently for the protection of the rights, freedoms and guarantees of all citizens. It is in this spirit and in this sense that the Government assumes, with responsibility, the obligation which may be conferred on it by the decree of the President of the Republic and by the authorization of this House. It means that we are and we will continue to be a free society of citizens. And free citizens mean responsible citizens before themselves and responsible before others. The approval of the state of emergency does not compel anyone, nor does it diminish anyone's extraordinary form and with the enormous civic sense with which the Portuguese, voluntarily and needless of any kind of coercion, have assumed all the limitations that the public health recommendations have imposed. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I would like to recall that when constitutionalists were passionately discussing the need for a constitutional review to impose compulsory health confinement on the 14 Portuguese who were rescued from Wuhan, neither one of them ever questioned the need to voluntarily put themselves in quarantine, so as to ensure that, when returned to the homeland, they would not constitute a danger or a threat to whoever they were. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Inspired by the civic example of Mr. President of the Republic, who, for 15 days, submitted himself to voluntary quarantine, all and each of the Portuguese citizens, had had tests for the coronavirus considered positive, had contacted someone with this positive test or were merely under observation, all have voluntarily complied with the guidelines of the Directorate-General for Health. And what we all hear and feel on the part of our fellow citizens is that, in fact, they have all assumed to be public health agents. And that is something we should be proud of, that is to say, to be representatives of a people who have acted in this way, at a time of this gravity. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And we have to go on like this, with a state of emergency or no state of emergency. Portugal is a decent society, of decent people, of people who know that it is at this difficult moment that makes more sense to affirm the meaning and value of being a community, and that sense of community means that no one is left to their fate and that no one is dedicated to adopting the position of "save whoever can". No, we are all here, with the sense and spirit of national unity, to fight this threat together and to face and protect the right to health and life of all Portuguese people. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I would therefore like to thank all political parties, especially those of the opposition, for the sense of national unity which they have expressed, without neglecting their duty to maintain the critical sense of how the government and public services operate and for not having responded to the effort, either by the Government or by the President of the Republic, to give the country the sign that deserves recognition of our collective responsibility to face this threat together. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The struggle for life requires, first and foremost, that life continue. And the best way to protect public health is to ensure that everything that is needed is done, but also to ensure that nothing that is not necessary is not done to the detriment of the global activity of life in the country. That is why we will always interpret the powers that have been assigned to us, from the very point of view of the need for adequacy and proportionality with which they must be exercised, but also with the awareness that we have — and that we hope that no one will cease to have — that this epidemiological curve will not end in the next 15 days, the duration of the possible state of emergency, but that, according to the best epidemiological studies, it will have a peak in mid-April and can only have its term if everything runs at the best of the scenarios, at the end of May. This means that, whenever we adopt, we will have to be aware that it will not be a measure that restricts our freedom, rights or capacity for one or two weeks. It may be for a longer period. And that is why, in addition to the legal duty to exercise these powers in accordance with the principles of need, adequacy and proportionality, it is essential that we all exercise according to two essential values: the value of prudence and the value of common sense. I know it's not always easy, but it's never as necessary as these times of crisis. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Today morning I had the opportunity to meet, personally with the Director-General of Health, with the President of the National Institute of Health and with the President of the National Council of Public Health, together with the Minister and the Secretaries of State of his team, and I asked that, until the end of today, if possible, the Government, in accordance with the latest technical and scientific information, be made available to the Government so that, in the exercise of the powers conferred by the decree of the President of the Republic, the Government can adapt the measures that are now absolutely necessary. But we also need to be fair with technicians and scientists. We are not the only ones who don't know everything; unfortunately, even technicians and scientists still don't know what only in the future will be able to know. We are faced with something new, we are facing a new virus, we are facing a new reality, there are data that are not known, there are studies to do and therefore we cannot ask scientists for the miracle that science cannot produce at this time. Therefore, with humility, we must try to act in accordance with the best scientific evidence, but with the awareness of the precarious knowledge that is available today and with the awareness that perhaps we will have to make decisions today that will have to be corrected tomorrow, we will have to make decisions today that will be considered excessive and that today we will be able to consider that tomorrow would not have been essential. And it is not worth having the illusion that, with a state of emergency or without an emergency, we become omniscient, because we will not be able to know everything that, unfortunately, we do not have the ability to know today. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This humility is not only a condition of responsibility, but also of credibility to our fellow citizens. The worst thing that can happen in the face of a battle that can be lasting — many scientists consider that we are only in the first wave of pandemic, that will follow a new one, others are convinced that we will only have a vaccine in one year, one and a half years, that is, we will have to live at least one more winter without having a vaccine — is to break the link of trust, solidarity and credibility with our citizens. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And that bond breaks when people feel that we are not here to do everything that is necessary, but it also breaks down on the day that citizens understand that we are making promises that then fail. We must therefore all be aware and say, with all honesty, to the Portuguese and Portuguese: probably today, the state of emergency will be decreed, but surely from here to 15 days, even with the state of emergency, we will have even more infected people than we have today, there will be more deaths than the two that we have already registered in our community so far and this pandemic will still continue to develop over the next few weeks and months.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u32	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u33	I shall now conclude, Mr President. This instrument is necessary for us to do more and better, but there is no emergency decree that has the saving effect of resolving this pandemic crisis that is being fought globally, but we will do everything to meet our scale and measure. Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. [[PS applause, stand up.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u34	In accordance with the instructions from the various parliamentary groups, we shall now proceed to vote on the granting of authorization for the declaration of emergency. As you know, Mr President of the Republic, after having proceeded to the hearing of the Government, which has given its agreement and the Council of State, addressed to the Assembly of the Republic, for authorisation, the draft decree of the state of emergency, the basis of which declares for the period of 15 days the state of emergency throughout the national territory, enabling the necessary measures to be taken to contain the spread of the disease COVID-19. We shall therefore vote on the granting of authorization for the state of emergency declaration. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN and CH and the abstentions of the PCP, PEV, IL and Member not registered Joacine Katar Moreira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u35	Mr. President, will you excuse me from speaking?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u36	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u37	Mr President, since I did not have the opportunity to participate in this debate, I would inform you that I will present a written vote on the last vote. I take advantage of the Prime Minister's presence to urge him to arrive at this House, please, as soon as possible, with the terms of the report provided for in Article 28. the Law No. 44 / 86, with the detail of what will be accompanied in terms of the application of the state of emergency.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u38	It is recorded that you will make a written statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u39	Mr President, allow me to use the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u40	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u41	Mr President, it is only to announce that I will present a written vote statement on the last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u42	Be registered.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u43	Mr President, I would also like to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u44	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u45	Mr President, it is to announce that I will present a statement of vote on the last vote. I also express my absolute indignation at not having had the chance to participate in this important debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u46	It is recorded that you will make a written statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u47	Mr. President, will you excuse me from speaking?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u48	You have the floor, Mr. André Ventura.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u49	Mr President, it is for the same purpose. I shall deliver a statement of vote on the last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u50	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Let us therefore move on to the second item on our agenda, which consists in the general discussion of the Bill No 17 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves exceptional and temporary measures to respond to the epidemiological situation caused by the new coronavirus ( SARS-CoV-2 ) and the COVID-19 disease. To open the debate, Mr. Minister of State and the Presidency, Mariana Vieira da Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u51	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The emergency state of public health caused by the COVID-19 pandemic puts the country before the need to take all the measures necessary to ensure the response required of Portugal. The exceptional situation we are living at international level has required, and will continue to demand, the implementation of extraordinary and urgent measures, to the extent and to the extent necessary. In the last few weeks, the Government has taken decisions with four fundamental objectives: firstly, to strengthen the means and conditions of the SNS, so that it has the greatest capacity to respond at the moment that the pressure on our system is greater, which we will know what will happen; secondly, to define a set of limitations and constraints to the regime of operation of establishments, public services and public space, in order to promote social distance and facilitate prophylactic isolation; thirdly, to strengthen the social protection of workers and their families, seeking to protect the incomes of those who are unable to work; fourthly, to mitigate the effects of this crisis on our economy and on businesses and jobs. in this sense, the Government approved Decree-Law No 10 -A / 2020 of 13 March, then, in fact, to have consulted all parties with parliamentary seats, in which it determined a set of exceptional and temporary measures, in particular regarding public procurement, administrative authorisations, strengthening public services, as well as measures to ensure the maintenance of family income. The proposed law we are discussing today has two purposes: firstly, the urgency in the adoption of the so-called Decree-Law led to the consecration of measures which can be interpreted as integrating matters of reservation of the legislative competence of this House, and which here it is important to ratify. Second, the Government chose not to legislate matters with a lower urgency which would include the reserve of legislative competence of the Assembly of the Republic, in particular matters relating to the incidence of prior supervision by the Court of Auditors of acts and contracts practised or concluded under the aforementioned Decree-Law, as well as matters relating to bodies of local authorities and the functioning of administrative bodies in general. These are the two purposes of the bill we are discussing here today. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, if there is a fact that we should be certain that the time of this crisis will be long. In the coming months, we will have to adopt further measures, improve the decisions already taken, find new answers and define new solutions. The Government is available and, more than available, committed to always building the best solutions, in an extended compromise context in this House and in the country. That is our collective responsibility. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice-President Fernando Negrão was re-chaired.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u52	For an intervention, Mr Afonso Oliveira of the Social Democratic Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u53	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This is one of the moments of life for all of us who would like it not to exist. We live a time of truly exceptional circumstances. We fight a war against an enemy who acts silently and can attack us all, without any truce. Indeed, humanity has been attacked by an enemy who tests our ability to act in anticipation and to act without hesitation. We live a very serious moment, we live an exceptional moment! What is at stake today is to defend everyone's life and that is the priority. The measures already decided, and to be decided by the Government, must respond to this priority. This is a time that requires a decision, which requires courage, which requires effectiveness. The Portuguese, the families, the workers, the entrepreneurs and the companies understood very well what was at stake and took a very responsible attitude when they anticipate the measures which, however, were taken by the authorities. The President of the PSD said here today that the Government has our support for all the measures that are necessary in this fight and that it is essential to anticipate them so as not to lose one day in the fight against the epidemic. What we are approving today is the ratification of the effects of the diploma which determines a set of exceptional and temporary measures and the adoption of new exceptional and temporary measures. We shall vote in favour of these measures. But it is also important to say that the Government should have anticipated this need and submitted a request for legislative authorisation to Parliament — we are sure that it would have a broad consensus — and thus avoid ratification to which it is submitting us today. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this morning, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers of Finance and Economics announced another package of measures aimed at responding to the urgent needs of companies. There is no doubt for anyone who is even urgent to keep the economy working and defending employment. at this time, in order to defend the economy, it requires efficiency for the government, speed in the operationalization of the measures, simplicity in its implementation and clarity in the explanation of the measures to companies, workers and families. And no sector can stay out, Mrs. Minister. With regard to the measures announced today, we draw the Government's attention to the fact that we have not seen any reference to any support for trade and service companies. No sector can stay out of this period. The PSD will be where it has always been, with a strong sense of state, to contribute to the search for the best solutions in the face of the enormous difficulties that we will all have to face. That is why it is our understanding that today there must be a restraint in the legislative process and that, as soon as possible, there should be a period for each party to be able to submit proposals for discussion at another plenary session. It should not be today that we are going to make a very intensive and excessive legislative process, so let us say. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, here in this House, in the House of Democracy, I am sure that we, who represent the Portuguese people, are united in a cause, in a struggle that is common: to face this emergency with all means and with a very strong determination of all. This is from those moments when we are ourselves and our circumstances, but it is also the time when we can say that much more is what unites us than what separates us. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u54	For the Left Block, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u55	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The exceptional situation in which we live requires a response at the same time. The epidemiological crisis is reaching the economy strongly and therefore we also need to defend people in this respect. The Left Block brings the debate essential proposals to respond to the urgency of these times, in particular to protect employment and safeguard incomes, to protect people's rights and the response capacity of the National Health Service. At the time that the Government announced a package of response measures for companies, there must also be employment protection. We believe that support for the economy should also serve to protect employment, but we know how it is going to be. Today there are thousands of workers, particularly temporary and precarious workers, who are paying for this crisis with the loss of their jobs and that cannot happen. Thus, the Left Block proposes to prevent redundancies for the period during which this crisis lasts, because protecting employment at this time is essential. On the other hand, we correct some shortcomings in the government's proposals, protecting workers from risk groups with the right to telework or dispensation of service, extending exceptional support for situations of workers with children under 12 years of age and proposing to amend the layoff regime to, in practice, not prejudice workers by depriving them of the right to holiday. In order not to leave anyone behind, we propose that the period of unemployment benefit be extended for three months, such as unemployment benefit or initial unemployment benefit, applying the same extension for research grants or internship grants. We believe that we must guarantee fundamental rights, such as the right to housing, and to that end we suspend the clearance actions and propose the creation of moratoriums for claims for own housing or income payments for people in situations of economic vulnerability caused by unemployment or abrupt income breakdown. Similarly, we propose the guarantee of access to goods of first need, preventing the suspension of the supply of essential services such as water, gas or electricity. Finally, we strengthen the legal capacity of the Government to ensure the response of the National Health Service by providing for the requirement of professionals, equipment or facilities of the private or social sector that are necessary to respond to the emergency situation of public health. We want to ensure the full availability of professionals for the needs of the National Health Service and, at times when we perceive the shortage of medical material, we defend the mobilization of all the country's productive capacity to help fill the lack of resources. The proposals we put forward are of enormous reasonableness for the moment of urgency we are living and several of them are already being implemented by other countries. Let us not waste time at this moment of urgency. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u56	Mr António Filipe of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u57	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: To this absolutely exceptional situation that we are living in, the Portuguese people are responding in an equally exceptional way and that they must stand up. When we are discussing exceptional measures to deal with this situation, it is important to offer a greeting to the Portuguese people, especially to health workers, to workers who provide essential services, who cannot stop the personnel of the security forces and services, to firemen, to the military, that is, to all citizens who ensure that the essential services, which we all need, are ensured. I also leave a word of solidarity for people who are affected by the COVID-19 and their relatives and also a word of comfort to the family members of the people who have already died because of this disease. I also leave a word of solidarity for those who, for assistance to the family or for reasons of paralysis of various economic activities, are forced to stay at home, to stop their activity. It is for these people that we must go to our concrete solidarity, then, in the exceptional measures that we must take, a fundamental issue for us is that nothing is lacking to people, to workers, to companies that will see their incomes affected by the paralysis of their activity dictated by the exceptional circumstances that we are forced to live. This is mainly the meaning of the proposals presented by the CFP, as a matter of special importance in this legislative process, with a view to protecting employment contracts and service services, because, in this framework, no workers should be fired due to the cessation of activity or the reduction of economic activity. It is necessary to protect jobs, and social benefits must be extraordinarily extended by cessation of activity. It is necessary to ensure that essential services are not cut off to persons who will be forced to cease their payments temporarily. We are talking about electricity, gas, water, communications services that cannot be cut off to anyone at this very difficult time. We need to protect the renters, i.e., there can't be people who are homeless right now that we're going through. We also advocate that exceptional measures should be taken to ensure that there is no lack of essential goods. The PCP also proposes that there be no application of the law of commitments to the purchase of medicines, chemicals and pharmaceuticals, clinical consumption material and medical devices or the acquisition of goods and services for the units of the National Health Service. We also propose that the provision of food support by schools to students in steps A and B should be guaranteed, that workers should not be harmed in their social security discounts for reasons of cessation of their activity, and that there should also be the necessary support for independent workers. In addition to workers on behalf of others, there are situations of self-employed workers who will see their activity if not paralyzed, at least drastically diminished and also those workers must not lack solidarity. Mr President, in conclusion, since I have already exceeded time, the fundamental question for us is that there is nothing lacking in those who are affected in their incomes by this economic situation and that the Republic does everything to ensure the living conditions for our fellow citizens. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u58	For the Green Party, Mr. José Luís Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u59	Mr President: First of all, I would like to take this opportunity to address, on behalf of the Greens, the deepest condolences to the family and friends of the COVID-19 fatal victims who have occurred among us. It seems to me, too, that it is entirely fair to mention some notes which, under this circumstances, it is important to underline: the first is due recognition for the commitment that all those people, men and women, who are in line with this battle, particularly the professionals of the SNS, but also the firefighters and the professionals of the INEM, in the absolute exemplary way that they continue to deal with this serious threat and to whom the effort must be made for its containment. But since this threat is collective, the answer must also be collective and here it is important not only to record the contribution of all the people who continue to work in these days to ensure that, despite everything, the essential does not fail and that the country does not stop, but also to the way in which the Portuguese, in general, have come to deal with the problem, that is, with all the sense of responsibility and with serenity the recommendations of the health authorities. Finally, I would like to point out once again the importance and role of the National Health Service, either in terms of the containment of a problem of this nature, or in relation to the potential dimension that the COVID-19 can assume. In fact, despite the underfinancing that has been subject for decades, however, the importance of the SNS stands out in this context with a highlight that should be duly valued and recognized. Therefore, the Greens continue to say that the more strengthened and robust our SNS is the more appropriate and efficient the response to cases like this. With regard to the proposals which the Government presents to us today in relation to exceptional and temporary measures to be taken in the face of the current situation and the proliferation of registered cases of infection of the new coronavirus ( SARS-CoV-2 ), I would like to say this: we welcome the fact that the government has come to meet the issues that the Greens have raised and that they have to deal with, on the one hand, with the need to expedite the processes of public procurement and administrative authorizations as a way to make the processes more rapid, because time in these cases is life. On the other hand, they also meet the need to strengthen public services in order to strengthen the response to this serious problem. As regards support for the shortcomings of workers, it seems to us quite frankly insufficient, especially for self-employed people, and that is why the Greens are presenting a proposal for a change in order to strengthen such support, ensuring that it is essential. Finally, the Greens are still taking advantage of this debate to leave a concern that has to do with the situation of immigrant workers, particularly on the Italian coast. This is because, in fact, difficulties in the Portuguese language and poor housing conditions, as in the case of greenhouse workers, but also intensive olives, can lead to very complicated situations for which it is essential to find specific and urgent answers.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u60	Mr Telmo Correia, from the CDS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u61	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : I would like to say that from the perspective of the CDS, this bill presents relevant and important measures. We give our agreement to the exemption from the Court of Auditors' visa, since at the moment it makes all the sense. With regard to the concrete measures, I would say that some of them could have been anticipated and would thus have sinned late. We believe that they could therefore have been determined earlier. In the previous debate, we said that the CDS will always have a patriotic position and we maintain this idea: we guarantee consensus, but we demand determination. The question is whether the measures are sufficient. No, it's not enough, there's more. There are sectors that are not treated, there are sectors that are not covered. However, in my opinion, we should avoid what is going to happen today and that will be a huge confusion. In fact, if there is no legislative authorization, we will have a sort of contest of ideas between parliamentary groups. In some matters we can even agree, in others not, until the position of each parliamentary group may have to do with the ideological position itself. So we can be doing some kind of Assembly government that, frankly, for me, is the most inappropriate we can have, especially in a crisis and emergency situation. One of the basic rules of an emergency situation is to decide who is in charge and in this case is the Government. We will continue to put forward proposals, but it is here, on the same day, sometimes on the knee, that these proposals will "wheat" to decide what can be done or not without previous studies, without financial viability, etc. etc. It seems to us to be a mistake. We have not come into this mistake and therefore our proposals are limited to the question of legal deadlines, and we have raised a question relating to another deadline, because we have been very alert to it. This is the deadline for the obligations of small forest owners, since many of them are now either collected or have no one to do the job. Therefore, for a reasonable period, we propose suspending the obligations they have, in particular cleaning, since they will have difficulty doing so in certain cases. We draw attention once again to the fact that there are measures that are relevant are not effective. For example, layoff with a calculation of three months and 40 % is not effective, does not solve the problem of companies. In fact, a more effective and flexible layoff was needed. But I do not make a proposal, when I make a great deal of a request to the Government on this matter to consider it. Some sectors have been forgotten in the Government's proposals. We have heard the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Economics announce — and well — the 9 billion support, but trade is now asking: what about us? We do not yet know these lines of support for trade, but we hope that they will exist. I leave here the call for attention, because in trade the same as in tourism is happening. In trade and services, what hasn't closed is closing. We all know that. It is true that industry is very important, but there are other sectors which are being forgotten in the midst of this reality and which must be supported. It is also very important that we think and support the social sector, which is not covered in this package and in this proposal.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u62	Sir, I call your attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u63	I'm really finishing up, Mr. President. The social sector is fundamental. What we said here about the social network to reach the elderly is essential. The families cannot be forgotten and we have shared some ideas of moratorium on families and have asked the government to weigh them. Are the proposals in the right direction? They are going, but some are late and, in our view, still very insufficient in the face of the crisis we are experiencing. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u64	I now give the floor to Mrs Bebiana Cunha of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u65	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are living extraordinaryly difficult times. In these times we need extraordinary and difficult measures. Responsible, firm, courageous political decisions are urgently needed to respond to the great challenge today: protecting and saving lives, facing the inadequacies. There is a conclusion with which all financial analysts agree: the longer decisions are postponed, the greater the economic consequences will be and therefore the more proactive the measures taken by governments to contain the spread, the better it will be for the economy and society as a whole. in this Government proposal there is an effort to find a balance of responses in several sectors, in an attempt to minimize damage, but we warn that we cannot save our efforts. We learned from good international practices, such as those in South Korea, in which the wider performance of tests to the population allowed the emergence of new cases to be reduced. You have to bet on tracking and not just on diagnosis. The NAP has warned that the importance of credible information is to reach all people, to allow health contexts to contract and acquire material according to needs, to create conditions for people to be protected at home, preferably under telework regime or to care for children, the elderly or other dependents, to create support for businesses, maintaining jobs, ensuring the physical and mental health of all. But what can't be allowed, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is the ethical and ethical dilemma of deciding who lives. We can't get to that point. We cannot allow the National Health Service to break in. It is necessary to halt the increase in the number of cases every day and that means stopping, it means that people stay at home. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we cannot allow companies to be forcing workers to take off their holidays, we cannot allow them to use this file to fire, nor can we ask security and civil protection officers to take the materials of disinfection and hygiene to work contexts. The NAP presented a series of proposals to protect those who may become the most unprotected, aiming at integrated responses between the central government and local power for our elderly, for people in a homeless condition, people with disabilities, children and young people in social responses to reception and dependent people in general. We must also not forget the answers to potential victims of domestic violence, which we know are more exposed at a time when we appeal and demand social isolation. Let us also not forget the need for a plan to guarantee the necessary care for animals, including food and drink. We also remember our Erasmus students and the Portuguese migrants who want to return and to whom all the conditions must be guaranteed so that they can do so, as quickly and safely as possible.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u66	Madam Member, the time available has come to an end.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u67	I shall conclude, Mr President. Workers, businesses and families need answers to the difficult decisions they have to make. The bank also now has a duty to pay back to the Portuguese. We know that budgetary difficulties are expected by 2020, but we will quickly recover if the necessary measures are taken. We are now back on the basis of the pyramid, where the health, survival and safety needs of all must be guaranteed. What we live today will certainly transform us as a society. We can, together and with responsibility, sow hope. The Portuguese people have always shown enormous resilience and solidarity. We know we're gonna count on him. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u68	Mr João Paulo Correia of the Socialist Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u69	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mr State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members: The proposed law submitted by the Government is, above all, another set of measures to protect families and businesses so that they are not harmed in their relationship with the State, more specifically with regard to the deadlines for judicial and administrative proceedings. The adoption of this bill leads to the suspension of judicial and administrative deadlines between courts, authorities, regulators, the Tax and Customs Authority, the cartels, conservatories and other administrative entities of the Central Administration, while enduring this crisis of the COVID-19. As is known, these measures are followed by others already in progress, from measures to protect workers who are providing assistance to their children, who are in prophylactic isolation or in the condition of infected patients, to measures to support the economy, such as the credit lines guaranteed by the State and made available by the banking system, with a period of deficiency until the end of the year and amortizable in four years which the Government has presented this morning. For the restoration and similar sector, EUR 600 million was made available, of which EUR 270 million is for micro and small enterprises; for the tourism sector — travel, animation, event organisation and similar agencies — EUR 200 million was made available, of which EUR 75 million is for micro and small enterprises; for other companies in the tourism sector, EUR 900 million, of which EUR 300 million is for micro and small enterprises; for the textile, clothing and footwear sectors, extractive industries and the wood chain, was EUR 1300 million, of which EUR 400 million is for micro and small enterprises. Other measures include flexibility of various corporate obligations vis-à-vis Public Administration ; flexibility of tax and contribution obligations ; postponement of the PEC (special payment on account) to 30 July ; extension of the delivery period of model 22 to 30 July and extension of the first PEC and the first additional payment on account to 31 August ; new payment options of VAT (tax on value added) monthly and quarterly and retentions at source of IRS (tax on income of natural persons) and IRC (tax on income of legal persons) for businesses with a turnover of up to 10 million euros in 2018 or with start of activity from 1 January 2019 and for self-employed persons. All procedures for the implementation of taxation and of existing tax obligations are suspended or to be introduced and contributions to social security may be reduced by one third between March and May for companies with up to 50 jobs. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, these and other measures which will be adopted shortly call for the maximum commitment of political actors to balance urgency and weighting. Some political parties have used this bill on the suspension of judicial and administrative deadlines, to present, a few hours and up to a few minutes ago, a large set of proposals on areas not directly related to the object of the legislative initiative in question. These areas of concern, in fact, coincide with those of the Government and the Socialist Party, namely the protection of the house of residence, lease contracts, suspension of the execution of mortgages, suspension of evictions and moratoriums of credit benefits. Other areas of concern are the protection of social benefits already allocated, the protection of essential services — light, water and communications — and labour protection. The Government and the PS Parliamentary Group are fully committed to the presentation of measures that need to respond very soon to these huge concerns.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u70	Mr President, I have to draw your attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u71	I will finish, Mr. President. It is likely that Parliament has a broad understanding of certain measures, but we are faced with a wide range of amendments which have been tabled a few hours ago, including even contradictory proposals. We understand that it is inappropriate to legislate in this way, which is why we defend the conduct of a new plenary session, from a few days to a few, focusing essentially on these major areas of concern, such as the protection of the home of the family, the protection of the social benefits already allocated, the protection of the provision of essential services and the protection of work. It is also a way for all parties to submit their proposals, with a minimum time of weighting, even if short, and to ensure the legal certainty and effectiveness of the approved proposals. In conclusion, I would like to make it clear that the vote against the PS, on the vast set of amendments tabled, has to do with, above all, the lack of minimum conditions for the necessary weighting of them, and we wish to discuss them and vote on them in plenary session within days. The PS and the Government will remain fully focused on supporting families, workers and businesses.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u72	Mr. Deputies, the time is running out.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u73	We will continue to be committed to the answers the Portuguese expect from all of us. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u74	For the Liberal Initiative, I give the floor to Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u75	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr Secretary of State, Mr and Mr. Members: For those who are surprised that there are no proposals from the Liberal Initiative today in this plenary, the reason is simple. Yesterday, during the day, a number of proposals came from law enforcement. So there is no proposal for us to avoid a vote here and for everything to be literally about what must be discussed today.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u76	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u77	We will therefore vote in favour of the final version coming from this decree and of the proposals that the PS will also make. On the other hand, we will vote on a case by case, of course, by weighing the public health interests of the Portuguese, with no less interest in keeping the economy working, given how much damage and impact this situation may have. We will block any attempt by some parties in this House, permanently and scandalously, to make political use of this case of public calamity.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u78	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u79	I am taking the time, Mr President, to justify, since I could not do so before, the abstention in the state of emergency declaration. In our view, was this need not sufficiently justified, so what additional measures can be taken in a state of emergency that could not be taken otherwise? in the same way that we were the first to warn about the inadequacy of measures last week, we will be the first to warn about the excess of measures which, for some reason, may happen. But everything will depend on the use and interpretation of the Government, and I therefore urged and urge again, here, in the presence of the Minister and the Secretary of State, who will present, as soon as possible, in this Chamber, to discuss already in the next week and to use, within 15 days, the extent of the extension of the state of emergency, the way in which they will look at the powers given to you now, but, above all, the detailed report provided for in Article 28. the Law No 44 / 86. Let us see what this report is going to say, because this will be the basis for the regular renewals of the state of emergency!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u80	Mr. Deputies, attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u81	I shall end, Mr President, by saying only what we all ought to know, but which should be repeated until exhaustion: every day that passes with unnecessarily restricted individual rights and freedoms is one more day.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u82	I now give the floor to Mrs Joacine Katar Moreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u83	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in an emergency state we cannot forget that there are citizens with more citizenship than others, that there are citizens with more rights than others, and that they can only be safeguarded. There are informal workers and precarious workers who do not have any kind of state protection. I would also like to mention this: I am very concerned about this state of emergency. We are in an emergency, but that does not mean coercive measures and attacks on the freedoms and guarantees of each and every one. I would also like to point out that what concerns me most is the suspension of the right of resistance. I imagine no democracy without right of resistance, indeed, there is no democracy without right of resistance. So let's keep our eyes open and make a national effort so that our approach is to fight this pandemic...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u84	Mrs. Member, pay attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u85	...and so that we do not enter areas that do not interest us as a society. I would also like to point out that these are indeed periods of exceptional measures which must also be institutional measures, particularly with regard to the European Union. A European Union that, at one time...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u86	Madam Member, I ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u87	... of calamity, if it specializes in the closure of borders and charges, it is a European Union that does not serve us at least. This is the time. And I encouraged the Portuguese state...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u88	Mrs. Deputy, there is someone who is guiding the work in the Assembly. I would like to thank you for finishing your speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u89	...renegotiating debt restructuring. This is the time of the European Union to show its absolute solidarity. Thank you very much and I apologize, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u90	Mr Andre Ventura has the floor for an intervention by the party arriving.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u91	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Prime Minister, who is no longer here, told us that, even with this state of emergency, we are still an open society. In our opinion, we have been an open society for too long in the last two weeks, which has led to the point where we are trying to contain what should have been contained. Yes, they were precise borders, yes, they were necessary measures that had warned that we would not get here. It is clear that we cannot allow layoffs, but we must also have the largest financial package in our history, because this crisis will be much bigger than the one we live in 2008 and 2009. And it's not worth running away, we're going to need a rectification budget and a finance minister worthy of that name takes it without reservations and without fear. Yes, we can waive the previous visa and we will be here to support the government on it, provided that the situations in which it is made are defined. I end with an appeal, Mrs. Minister, which is addressed to the whole government: don't embarrass the Portuguese with police images on the border without gloves, without gel...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u92	But he took the kissers to the hospitals!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u93	...when, on the other hand, police are masked and equipped with everything they need. Portuguese cops with nothing is a shame we can't tolerate.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u94	And you're going to distribute kisses on the street? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u95	We cannot be kneeling in front of other countries and we cannot have third world countries closing our borders and saying that they will make it difficult for us to return to our nationals and we will act as if it were nothing. It's time to be Portugal! And Portugal does not embarrass its citizens and does not embarrass its police, its professionals and those who guarantee our order. The images we all saw yesterday wouldn't leave any embarrassment to who...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u96	Mr. Deputies, attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u97	I will finish, Mr. President. As I was saying, the images we saw yesterday at the border would only leave no embarrassment to those who do not feel a huge pride in being Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u98	The Minister of State and the Presidency intends to use the remaining time, which is 1 minute and 1 second. To that end, I give you the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u99	Mr President: The time has already been indicated and I therefore have no conditions to respond to all the points raised here. However, I would like to say this: we are faced with a situation in which we will take action over the next few months. This is only the first debate to try to respond to the first package of measures that the Government has submitted. It is very easy to say that they are, on the one hand, insufficient or, on the other, that they should have been taken sooner. We have a very long situation ahead of us and we are managing our decision-making as necessary is very important. I would like to thank all the parliamentary groups for their willingness to cooperate in our proposals. We have made an effort in the last few hours to receive some suggestions. There are issues that we have already been able to consider, but there are many that we still have to deal with and which correspond to the concerns that the Government has expressed and to the measures that the Government has taken, day after day. We have already made ourselves available to have a plenary, where the Government and all the parties can present proposals, on equal terms, on the most diverse issues discussed here. I would like to end by saying that the Portuguese know that this crisis is a serious crisis, that it is a serious crisis, and that it is a prolonged crisis, and we need to understand what is essential. And what is essential is that our social protection system is able to respond mainly to those who need it most. To do this, you need to have a networked response capacity with other institutions, you need to be solid for the measures we have to take today, which we will have to take tomorrow and which we will have to take in the next few months. We will therefore consider all the measures suggested and, indeed, we are concerned about all the issues mentioned here today. But it does not count on the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, to make promises that we cannot make, because we know from the outset that some of them will not be able to fulfill. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u100	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I have just received information from the Government that it intends to present some specific amendments to the proposals to be voted on. To that end, the Government has asked me to give some time to talk to the political parties. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that we take a 15-minute time for this conversation and return to the Plenary at 19 hours and 10 minutes. So our work is suspended for 15 minutes. See you soon. [[It was 18 hours and 55 minutes.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the plenary session is resumed. [[It was 19 hours and 16 minutes.]] Let us start the votes. We begin by voting, in general, the Bill No. 17 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves exceptional and temporary measures to respond to the epidemiological situation caused by the new coronavirus ( SARS-CoV-2 ) and the COVID-19 disease. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN, CH and IL and the non-registered PCP, PEV and MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We shall now proceed to the vote, in the specialty, of the same Bill No 17 / XIV / 1. a. We shall make this vote Article to Article, so we shall begin by voting Article 1. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN, CH and IL and with abstentions from the PCP, the PEV and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We shall proceed to the vote on the proposal by the NAP amending Article 1 ( 3 ). the Decree-Law No 10 -A / 2020, of 13 March. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, ENP and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and CDS-PP, CH and IL.]] [[It was as follows: ‘Article 1... 1 — [...]. 2 —... 3 — The exceptional measures provided for in Chapters II and III shall apply to entities of the business sector and the administrative public sector, to professional public associations representing health professionals and public law bodies and, with the necessary adaptations, to local authorities, to local authorities’ associations and to entities belonging to the local business sector.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u101	The vote on the proposal by the CFP amending Article 9 ( 4 ) shall follow. the Decree-Law No 10 -A / 2020, of 13 March. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and CDS-PP and CH abstentions.]] [[It was as follows: ‘Article 9 Suspension of educational and non-formal and training activities 1 —... 2 —... 3 —... 4 — Groups of ungrouped schools and schools of the public education network and private, cooperative and social and solidarity institutions with public funding adopt the necessary measures for the provision of food support to students benefiting from grades A and B of the school social action and, where necessary, the measures to support students of specialized units that have been integrated into the learning support centres and whose stay at school is considered indispensable.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u102	We shall now vote on the proposal submitted by the CFP to add Article 19 ( 6 ). the Decree-Law No 10 -A / 2020, of 13 March. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected in favour of BE, the PCP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and CDS-PP, the NAP, the CH and the IL.]] [[It was as follows: ‘Article 19 Prophylactic isolation 1 — (...) 2 — (...) 3 — (...) 4 — (...) 5 — (...) 6 — The prophylactic isolation of workers and the allocation of their allowance does not exempt the full fulfilment of the contribution obligations, to affect the entire reference remuneration.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u103	The vote follows...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u104	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u105	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u106	To announce that we will present a statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u107	All right. We shall now vote on the proposal submitted by the CFP to add Article 19 ( 7 ). the Decree-Law No 10 -A / 2020, of 13 March. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, ENP and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and CDS-PP, CH and IL.]] [[It was as follows: ‘Article 19 Prophylactic isolation (...) 7 — The provisions of this Article apply to trainee workers under the measure of professional internships, provided for and regulated in Ordinance No 131/2017 of 7 April in its current wording.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u108	We proceed with the vote on the proposal by the CFP amending Article 20 ( 1 ). the Decree-Law No 10 -A / 2020, of 13 March. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and CDS-PP and CH abstentions.]] [[It was as follows: ‘Article 20 sickness benefit 1 — In the situations of illness of workers on behalf of another person and of workers who are independent of the general social security scheme with illness caused by the said COVID-19, a subsidy shall be granted in the amount of 100% of the reference remuneration, not subject to warranty or waiting period.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u109	We shall vote on the proposal submitted by the CFP to add Article 20 ( 2 ). the Decree-Law No 10 -A / 2020, of 13 March. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, ENP and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and CDS-PP, CH and IL.]] [[It was as follows: ‘Article 20 Sickness allowance (...) 2 — The provisions of this Article shall apply, with the necessary adaptations, to trainee workers under the measure of professional internships, provided for and regulated in Ordinance No 131/2017 of 7 April in its current wording.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u110	The vote is followed by the vote on the proposal submitted by the CFP for an addendum to Article 21 ( 2 ). the Decree-Law No 10 -A / 2020, of 13 March. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and CDS-PP and CH abstentions.]] [[It was as follows: ‘Article 21 Child and Net Assistance Grants 1 — 2 — In the situations referred to in the previous paragraph, a subsidy shall be granted in the amount of 100% of the reference remuneration.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u111	We are now voting on the proposal by the CFP to add paragraph 6 to Article 21. the Decree-Law No 10 -A / 2020, of 13 March. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, ENP, CH and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and CDS-PP, PAN and IL.]] [[It was as follows: ‘Article 21 Child and Child Assistance Grants... 6 — The allocation of the sickness benefit as provided for in paragraph 2, does not exempt the full fulfilment of the contribution obligations, to affect the whole of the reference remuneration.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u112	Mrs Inês de Sousa Real asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u113	Mr President, to announce that we will also present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u114	We shall proceed to the vote on the proposal submitted by the CFP to add Article 21 ( 7 ). the Decree-Law No 10 -A / 2020, of 13 March. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, ENP, CH and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and CDS-PP and IL abstentions.]] [[It was as follows: ‘Article 21 Child and grandson assistance allowances (...) 7 — The arrangements provided for in this Article shall apply to self-employed persons.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u115	We shall vote on the proposal submitted by the CFP to add Article 21 ( 8 ). that of the decree. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, ENP, CH and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and CDS-PP and IL abstentions.]] [[It was as follows: ‘8 — The provisions of this Article shall apply, with the necessary adaptations, to trainee workers under the measure of professional internships, provided for and regulated in the Ordinance No 131/2017 of 7 April in its current wording.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u116	We shall vote on the proposal submitted by the CFP amending Article 22 ( 1 ). that of the decree. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and CDS-PP and CH abstentions.]] [[It was as follows: ‘1 — Deprived without loss of rights, including compensation, the absences to work motivated by inappropriate care to a child or other dependent under 16 years of age, or, irrespective of age, disability or chronic disease, resulting from suspension of the educational and non-formal activities present in school or social equipment supporting first childhood or disability, where determined: (...)’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u117	We shall vote on the proposal submitted by the CFP amending Article 23 ( 1 ). that of the decree. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and CDS-PP and CH abstentions.]] [[It was as follows: ‘1 — In the situations referred to in the preceding article, the worker on behalf of others is entitled to receive exceptional monthly or proportional support, corresponding to 100% of the reference remuneration, paid in equal parts by the employer and social security.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u118	We shall vote on the proposal submitted by the CFP to replace Article 23 ( 5 ). o Decree-Law No 10 -A / 2020. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS and the PSD, votes in favour of BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the CDS-PP, the CH and the IL.]] [[It was as follows: ‘5 — The allocation of exceptional support in accordance with paragraph 2 shall not exempt the full fulfilment of the contribution obligations to be covered by the whole reference remuneration.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u119	We shall vote on the proposal submitted by BE to add Article 23 ( 7 ). that of the decree. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS and PSD, votes in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and the CDS-PP abstention.]] [[It was as follows: ‘7 — For household aggregates with more than one child under 12 years of age the worker does not lose the right to this exceptional support because of the circumstances of the other parent finds himself to perform his activity in telework.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u120	We shall vote on the proposal submitted by the CFP to add Article 23 ( 8 ). that of the decree. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS and PSD, votes in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and the CDS-PP abstention.]] [[It was as follows: ‘8 — The provisions of this Article shall apply to self-employed persons who provide services to one entity, in accordance with Article 140 of the Code of Contributing Schemes of the Preventive System of Social Security, approved by Law No 110/2009 of 16 September 2009 in its current wording, even if they are exempt from contributions to social security, in accordance with and for the purposes of the Code of Contributing Schemes of the Preventive System of Social Security.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u121	We shall vote on the proposal submitted by the CFP to add Article 23 ( 9 ). that of the decree. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS and PSD, votes in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, ENP, CH and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and CDS-PP and IL abstentions.]] [[It was as follows: ‘9 — The provisions of this Article shall apply, with the necessary adaptations, to trainee workers under the measure of professional internships, provided for and regulated in Ordinance No 131/2017 of 7 April in their current wording.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u122	We shall vote on the proposal submitted by the CFP amending Article 24 ( 1 ). that of the decree. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS and the PSD, votes in favour of BE, the PCP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the CDS-PP, the PAN, the CH and the IL.]] [[It was as follows: ‘1 — In situations similar to those of Article 22(1), the self-employed person is entitled to exceptional monthly or proportional support, which is not subject to a guarantee period.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u123	We shall vote on the proposal by the NAP amending Article 24 ( 2 ). that of the decree. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS and PSD, votes in favour of BE, PAN, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the PCP, CDS-PP, PEV and CH.]] [[It was as follows: ‘2 — The amount of support corresponds to two thirds of the monthly contribution base for the first quarter of 2020.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u124	We shall vote on the proposal submitted by the CFP amending Article 24 ( 2 ). that of the decree. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS and the PSD, votes in favour of BE, the PCP, the ENP, the IL and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the CDS-PP, the PAN and the CH.]] [[It was as follows: ‘2 — The amount of support corresponds to 100% of the reference remuneration, determined in accordance with the preceding articles.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u125	We shall vote on the proposal by the NAP amending Article 24 ( 3 ). o. of the decree. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS and PSD, votes in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, ENP, CH and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and CDS-PP and IL abstentions.]] [[It was as follows: ‘3 — The support referred to in the above figures has at least a guaranteed minimum monthly remuneration (RMMG) and by a maximum limit of three MRMG’.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u126	We shall vote on the proposal by the CFP amending Article 24 ( 3 ). that of the decree. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS and the PSD, votes in favour of BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the CDS-PP, the CH and the IL.]] [[It was as follows: ‘3 — The support to which the above figures refer has at least one MRMG and no more than three MRMG.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u127	We shall vote on the proposal submitted by the ENP amending Article 24 ( 3 ). that of the decree. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS and the PSD, votes in favour of BE, the PCP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the CDS-PP, the PAN, the CH and the IL.]] [[It was as follows: ‘3 — The support to which the above figures refer has as a minimum of 3 IAS and as a maximum of 3.5 IAS.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u128	We shall vote on the proposal submitted by the CFP to add Article 24 ( 7 ). that of the decree. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS and the PSD, votes in favour of BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the CDS-PP, the CH and the IL.]] [[It was as follows: ‘7 — The provisions of this Article shall apply to self-employed persons who are exempt from social security contributions, in accordance with and for the purposes of the Code of Contributing Schemes of the Preventive System of Social Security.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u129	We shall vote on the proposal submitted by BE to add Article 24 ( 7 ). that of the decree. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS and PSD, votes in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and CDS-PP and CH abstentions.]] [[It was as follows: ‘7 — For family aggregates with more than one child under 12 years of age, the worker does not lose the right to this exceptional support due to the circumstances of the other parent to be engaged in telework.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u130	We shall vote on the proposal submitted by the CFP amending Article 26 ( 1 ). that of the decree. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS and PSD, votes in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and CDS-PP and CH abstentions.]] [[It was as follows: ‘1 — The extraordinary support for the reduction of economic activity is the form of financial support for workers covered solely by the scheme of self-employed persons who are not pensioners, in a proven situation of total cessation of their activity or of the activity of their sector, or in a situation of breakdown of at least 40% of the services to be provided as a result of the outbreak of VOCID-19, in a situation proven by any means acceptable in law.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u131	We shall vote on the proposal by the NAP amending Article 26 ( 2 ). that of the decree. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS and PSD, votes in favour of BE, the NAP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the PCP, the CDS-PP, the ENP, the CH and the IL.]] [[It was as follows: ‘2 — The support referred to in this Article shall be granted automatically after the request of the selfemployed person.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u132	We shall vote on the proposal submitted by the CFP amending Article 26 ( 3 ). that of the decree. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS and PSD, votes in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and CDS-PP and CH abstentions.]] [[It was as follows: ‘3 — During the period of application of this measure, the independent worker is entitled to financial support for a period of one month, which can be extended monthly, up to a maximum of six months, corresponding to the value of the remuneration recorded as a basis of contribution incidence, with a minimum limit of the value of the Partner Support Index and maximum the value of the Guaranteed Minimum Monthly Remuneration.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u133	We shall vote on the proposal submitted by the CFP to add Article 26 ( 7 ). that of the decree. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS and PSD, votes in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and CDS-PP and CH abstentions.]] [[It was as follows: ‘7 — The provisions of this Article shall apply to self-employed persons who are exempt from social security contributions, in accordance with and for the purposes of the Code of Contributing Schemes of the Preventive System of Social Security.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u134	We shall vote on the proposal submitted by the CFP to add Article 26. -A to the decree-law. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS and PSD, votes in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and CDS-PP and CH abstentions.]] [[It was as follows: ‘Article 26a Extension of the time-limits for contracts or exchanges of scientific workers The contracts or scientific research grants which are in effect under the 2019 Stimulation to Scientific Jobs Competition, Decree-Law No 57/2016 of 29 August, as amended by Law No 57/2017 of 19 July, or under the fellowships provided for in the Statute of the Research Fellowship, shall be extended by an identical period to that in which the scientific worker is prevented from developing his work plan.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u135	We shall vote on the proposal by the NAP amending Article 29 ( 1 ). that of the decree. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the PS and the IL, votes in favour of BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and CDS-PP and CH abstentions.]] [[It was as follows: ‘1 — During the duration of this decree, the arrangements for the subordinated provision of telework may be determined unilaterally by the employer or the worker, without the need to agree with the parties, provided that they are compatible with the tasks performed.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u136	We shall vote on the proposal submitted by BE to add Article 29 ( 3 ). that of the decree. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS and the PSD, votes in favour of BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the CDS-PP, the CH and the IL.]] [[It was as follows: ‘3 — Workers whose function is not compatible with the performance of telework activities belonging to the risk groups identified by the Directorate-General for Health shall be exempted from the provision of work while the contingency measures continue to apply.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u137	We shall vote on the proposal submitted by BE to add Article 29 ( 4 ). that of the decree. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS and the PSD, votes in favour of BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the CDS-PP, the CH and the IL.]] [[It was as follows: ‘4 — For the purposes of the previous issue, the worker shall inform his employer in writing of his risk condition.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u138	We shall vote on the proposal submitted by BE to add paragraph 5 to Article 29. that of the decree. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS and PSD, votes in favour of BE, the NAP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the PCP, the CDS-PP, the ENP, the CH and the IL.]] [[It was as follows: ‘5 — The worker may be required, within 30 days, to provide evidence of the condition set out in the preceding paragraph.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u139	We shall vote on the proposal submitted by BE for the addition of Article 30. -A to the decree-law.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u140	Mr President, BE withdrew this proposal, since this article has already been amended by the door published today afternoon.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u141	Of course, Mr. Deputies. We shall then proceed to the vote on the proposal by BE for an addendum to Article 31. -A to the decree-law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, IL and non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstention of CH.]] [[It was as follows: ‘Article 31a Extension of the period of granting unemployment benefits The period of granting unemployment benefits, including unemployment benefit, social allowance for initial unemployment, part unemployment benefit and social unemployment benefit after unemployment benefit, is extended within three months.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u142	We shall vote on the proposal submitted by BE to add Article 32. o-B to the decree-law. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS and PSD, votes in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and CDS-PP and CH abstentions.]] [[It was as follows: ‘Article 32b Extension of research grants and internships The research grants financed by the Foundation for Science and Technology and the traineeships financed by the Institute for Employment and Vocational Training are extended in three months.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u143	We shall vote on the proposal by BE amending paragraph 2 of the Proposal for a Law No 17 / XIV / 1. a. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS and the PSD, votes in favour of BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the CDS-PP, the CH and the IL.]] [[It was as follows: ‘Article 2 Ratification of Effects The content of Decree-Law No 10-A/2020 of 13 March is an integral part of this Law, producing effects from the date of production of effects of that Decree-Law, as amended in Article 2a.’.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u144	We shall vote for Article 2. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN, CH, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and PCP and ENP abstentions.]] We shall vote on the proposal submitted by the PS to replace Article 3. The proposal of the law. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] [[It is as follows: ‘Article 3 Local authorities 1 — ordinary meetings of the deliberative and executive bodies of the local authorities and of the inter-municipal entities scheduled for the months of April and May may be held until 30 June 2020. 2 — The obligation to hold public meetings of the deliberative and executive bodies of the municipalities and of the parish and the deliberative bodies of the intermunicipal entities, as provided for in Articles 49, 70 and 89 of Law No 75/2013 of 12 September 2013 approving the legal regime of the local authorities, shall be suspended until 30 June 2020, without prejudice to their recording and placing online on the website of the Authority whenever technically feasible. 3 — Without prejudice to the provisions of the previous paragraphs by 30 June 2020, meetings of the deliberative and executive bodies of local authorities and inter-municipal entities may be held by video conferencing, or by other digital means, provided that there are technical conditions for this purpose.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u145	The vote on Article 3 shall be detrimental to this vote. The proposal of the law. We shall proceed to the vote on the proposal by the PS amending Article 4 ( 1 ). The proposal of the law. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] [[It is as follows: ‘1 — The entities provided for in Articles 51(1) and (2) of Law No 97/98 of 26 August in their current wording, whose approval of accounts depends on the deliberation of a collegial body, may refer them to the Court of Auditors by 30 June 2020 in place of the time limit referred to in Article 52(4), without prejudice to the other paragraphs of that Article.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u146	We shall vote on Article 4 (2). Article 5. The proposal of the law. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u147	We shall vote on the proposal submitted by the PS to amend the body of Article 6. The proposal of the law. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] [[It shall be read as follows: ‘1 — Without prejudice to the successive supervision and supervision schemes provided for in Law No 98/97 of 26 August 1997 in its current wording, contracts covered by Decree-Law No 10-A/2020 of 13 March and other contracts concluded by the entities referred to in Article 7 of the Allied Decree-Law No 10-A/2020 during the period of validity of this Act shall be exempted from the prior supervision of the Court of Auditors.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u148	We shall vote on the proposal submitted by the CH to amend the body of Article 6. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD, PCP, ENP and MP not included Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PAN, CH and IL and abstentions against BE and the CDS-PP were rejected.]] [[It was as follows: ‘1 — Without prejudice to the successive monitoring and supervision schemes provided for in Law No 98/97 of 26 August 1997 in its current wording, contracts covered by Decree-Law No 10-A/2020 of 13 March shall be exempted from the prior supervision of the Court of Auditors, provided that they are proven and essentially necessary for the fight against the pandemic of COVID-19.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u149	We shall vote on the proposal submitted by the PS to add Article 6 ( 2 ). The proposal of the law. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] [[It is as follows: ‘2 — The contracts referred to in the preceding paragraph shall be referred to the Court of Auditors, for information, up to 30 days after their conclusion.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u150	We shall vote on the proposal submitted by the CH to add Article 6 ( 2 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD, PCP, ENP and MP not included Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PAN, CH and IL and abstentions against BE and the CDS-PP were rejected.]] [[It was as follows: ‘2 — For each of the above situations, the Government should issue a supporting and substantiated note, which should be made public on the official website of the Government of the Republic.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u151	We shall vote on the proposal submitted by the PS to add Article 6 ( 3 ). The proposal of the law. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN, CH and Non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira and with abstentions from the PCP, the ENP and the IL.]] [[It is as follows: ‘3 — The deadlines for prior supervision proceedings pending or to be referred to the Court of Auditors during the period of validity of this Act shall not be suspended.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u152	We shall vote on the proposal submitted by the PSD to replace Article 7. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, CDS-PP, PAN and CH and abstained from BE, PCP, PEV, IL and Member not registered Joacine Katar Moreira.]] [[It is as follows: ‘Article 7 Deadlines and procedures 1 — Without prejudice to the provisions of the following numbers, procedural and procedural acts to be carried out in proceedings, procedures, acts and proceedings that run in judicial courts, administrative and tax courts, Constitutional Court, Court of Auditors and other judicial bodies, arbitral courts, Public Prosecutor’s Office, peace judges, alternative dispute resolution bodies and tax enforcement bodies, the system of judicial holidays shall apply until measures for the prevention, containment, mitigation and treatment of epidemiological infection by SARS-Cov2 and the disease COVID-19 as determined by the national public health authority. 2 — The scheme provided for in the previous paragraph ceases to be defined by decree-law, declaring the termination of the exceptional situation relating to measures to prevent, contain, mitigate and treat epidemiological infection by SARS-CoV-2 and the disease COVID-19. 3 — The maximum limitation and expiry time limits laid down in the law on procedures in which the bodies and entities referred to in paragraph 1 are extended for the period of time during which the exceptional situation in respect of measures to prevent, contain, mitigate and treat epidemiological infection by SARS-CoV-2 and the disease COVID-19, the term of which is declared in accordance with the above paragraph. 4 — In urgent cases, procedural acts and procedures are not carried out where they involve the presence of a greater number of persons than provided for in the recommendations of the health authorities and in accordance with the guidelines laid down by the competent Superior Councils. 5 — Where technically feasible, the practice of any procedural and procedural acts shall be permitted by means of appropriate distance communication, including by teleconference or videocall. 6 — Within the framework of this Article, only the urgent acts and procedures in which fundamental rights are concerned, including procedural considerations concerning children at risk or educational guardians of an urgent nature, procedures and judgements of accused prisoners, provided that the conditions of public health are duly safeguarded, in accordance with paragraph 4. 7 — The provisions of this Article shall also apply, with the necessary adaptations, to: 8 — After the end of the exceptional situation referred to in paragraph 1, the Assembly of the Republic shall adapt, by law, the periods of judicial leave to be applied in 2020.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u153	We shall vote on the proposal submitted by the CFP amending Article 7 ( 1 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and IL were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the CDS-PP, the NAP and the CH.]] [[It was as follows: ‘1 — The legal deadlines and the practice of procedural and procedural acts to be carried out in proceedings, procedures, acts and proceedings that run within judicial courts, administrative and fiscal courts, arbitral tribunals, public prosecutors, peace courts, alternative dispute resolution bodies, shall be suspended until measures for the prevention, containment, mitigation and treatment of epidemiological infection by SARS-CoV-2 and the disease COVID-19, as determined by the national public health authority, have ceased.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u154	We shall vote on the proposal submitted by the CFP to add Article 7 ( 3 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected in favour of BE, the PCP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and CDS-PP, the NAP, the CH and the IL.]] [[(b) the acts provided for in Article 36(2) of Law No 62/2013 of 26 August 2013 in its current wording;]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u155	We shall vote on the proposal submitted by BE to add paragraph 5 to Article 7. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and CDS-PP and CH abstentions.]] [[It is as follows: ‘5 — Disposal actions, special clearance procedures and processes for the delivery of leased immovable property shall be suspended if the lessee, by virtue of the final court decision to issue, may be placed in a fragile situation due to lack of his own housing.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u156	We shall vote on the proposal submitted by the non-registered Member of Parliament Joacine Katar Moreira, which shall be added from paragraph 5 to Article 7. The proposal of the law. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS and the PSD, votes in favour of BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the CDS-PP, the CH and the IL.]] [[It was as follows: ‘5 — Cancellation of the implementation of evictions, although carried out in court, during the period of contingency of the epidemiological infection by SARS-CoV-2 and the disease COVID-19.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u157	We shall vote on the proposal submitted by the PS to replace Article 7. the proposal for a law for which there is a request, submitted by the PSD, so that paragraphs 3 and 4 are voted separately. Mr. Carlos Peixoto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u158	Mr President, the PSD withdraws this request.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u159	We shall then vote on the proposal submitted by the PS to replace Article 7. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN, CH, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and PCP and ENP abstentions.]] [[It is as follows: ‘Article 7 Deadlines and due diligence 1 — Without prejudice to the provisions of the following paragraphs, procedural and procedural acts to be carried out in proceedings and procedures, which run within judicial courts, administrative and tax courts, Constitutional Court, Court of Auditors and other courts, arbitral tribunals, Public Prosecutor’s Office, peace judges, alternative dispute resolution bodies and tax enforcement bodies, shall apply the system of judicial holidays until the exceptional situation of prevention, containment, mitigation and treatment of epidemiological infection by SARS-CoV-2 and the disease COVID-19, as determined by the national public health authority. 2 — The arrangements provided for in this Article shall cease to be laid down by decree, in which the exceptional situation is declared to have ended. 3 — The exceptional situation is also a cause for suspension of the limitation and expiry periods for all types of proceedings and procedures. 4 — The provisions of the previous paragraph prevail over any arrangements which establish mandatory maximum time limits for limitation or expiry, the same being extended for the period of time in which the exceptional situation applies. 5 — In urgent cases the deadlines shall be suspended, except in the circumstances provided for in paragraphs 8 and 9. 6 — The provisions of this Article shall also apply, with the necessary adaptations, to: 7 — The tax periods referred to in point (c) of the preceding paragraph relate only to acts of appeal of judicial appeal, graceful complaint, hierarchical appeal or other proceedings of the same nature as to the time limits for the practice of acts under the same tax procedures. 8 — Where technically feasible, the practice of any procedural and procedural acts shall be permitted by means of appropriate distance communication, including by teleconference or videocall. 9 — Within the framework of this Article, only the urgent acts and procedures in which fundamental rights are involved are carried out at present, including procedural considerations concerning children at risk or educational guardians of an urgent nature, due diligence and judgements of accused prisoners, provided that their performance does not involve the presence of a number of persons greater than those provided for by the recommendations of the health authorities and in accordance with the guidelines laid down by the competent Superior Councils. 10 — After the expiry of the exceptional situation referred to in paragraph 1, the Assembly of the Republic shall adapt, in its own diploma, the periods of judicial leave to be applied in 2020.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u160	We shall vote on the proposal submitted by the CDS-PP to replace Article 7 ( 2 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected in favour of the CDS-PP, the PAN and the IL and abstained from BE, PCP, PEV, CH and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] [[It was as follows: ‘2 — The arrangements provided for in this Article shall cease to be laid down by decree, in which the exceptional situation is declared to have ended.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u161	We shall vote on the proposal submitted by the CDS-PP to add a new Article 7 ( d ) paragraph 8. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the BE were rejected, in favour of the PSD, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the CH and the IL.]] [[It was as follows: ‘(d) Deadline for carrying out any obligations in the context of the prevention of rural fires.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u162	We shall vote on the proposal submitted by the NAP to add Article 7. o -A to the bill. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected in favour of BE, PAN, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and PCP, CDS-PP, ENP and CH.]] [[It was as follows: ‘Article 7 of the Extraordinary Review of Evaluation Parameters under SIADAP 1 — During the duration of this Act, public administration services should carry out an extraordinary review of the objectives that serve as evaluation parameters under the Performance Assessment Subsystems of Public Administration Services, Public Administration Directors and Public Administration Workers, in order to adapt them to the organisation and operation measures provided for in, inter alia, Decree-Law No 10-A/2020 of 13 March and Resolution of the Council of Ministers No 10-A/2020 of 13 March. 2 — The rules necessary for the implementation of the measures provided for in the previous paragraph shall be carried out by the Office of the Member of the Government responsible for the area of public administration.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u163	We shall vote on the proposal submitted by the CFP to add Article 7. o -A to the bill. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and IL were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the CDS-PP and the CH.]] [[It was as follows: ‘Article 7a Protection of employment contracts and provision of services Until the end of measures for the prevention, containment, mitigation and treatment of epidemiological infection by SARS-CoV-2 and COVID-19 disease, as determined by the national public health authority, do not cease:]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u164	We shall vote on the proposal submitted by BE to add Article 7. o -A to the bill. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against PS and IL.]] [[It is as follows: ‘Article 7a Guarantee for access to goods of first necessity During the period of response to the epidemiological situation caused by the new coronavirus (SARS-CoV-2), agent causing the disease COVID-19, the supply of the services referred to in Article 1(2) (a), (b), (c), (d), (f) and (g) of Law No 23/96 of 26 July shall not be allowed to be suspended because of the lack of payment, when motivated by the situation of economic vulnerability, caused by unemployment, abrupt breakdown of income, or by infection with Covid-19.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u165	We shall proceed to the vote on the proposal submitted by Mrs Joacine Katar Moreira, who has not signed up to Article 7. o -A to the bill. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and IL were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the CDS-PP, the NAP and the CH.]] [[It was as follows: ‘Article 7a Suspension of dismissals and protection of work and the worker/restriction of lay-offs for a period of three months, irrespective of the type of contract in force and including the provision of services, within the framework of measures to prevent, contain, mitigate and treat epidemiological infection by SARS-CoV-2 and the disease COVID-19.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u166	The following is the vote on the proposal submitted by the NAP for the addition of Article 7. o-B to Bill No 17 / XIV / 1. a. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected in favour of BE, PAN, ENP and MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the PCP, CDS-PP, CH and IL.]] [[It was as follows: ‘Article 7b Protection measures for pet animals and errant animals Within the shortest possible time the members of the Government responsible for agriculture and civil protection shall approve a port which shall define the animal protection measures applicable to the epidemic situation of COVID-19, which shall lay down, inter alia, the rules applicable to pet animals, the feeding of errant animals and animals in official collection centres or zoophiles and pet associations of persons infected with the disease caused by COVID-19, and which shall allow, even in the context of restriction of movement, food and care to animals.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u167	The vote on the proposal submitted by the CFP was followed by the amendment of Article 7. o-B to the bill. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected and votes against the BE, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the PEV, the IL and the Member who did not register Joacine Katar Moreira and the CH abstention.]] [[It was as follows: ‘Article 7b Extraordinary extension of social benefits Benefits due to unemployment, cessation of activity, cessation of professional activity and other social benefits whose period of granting or term of renewal expires before the cessation of measures to prevent, contain, mitigate and treat epidemiological infection by SARS-CoV-2 and the disease COVID-19.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u168	We shall proceed to the vote on the proposal by BE for an addendum to Article 7. o-B to the bill. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and IL were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the PEV and the Member of Parliament included Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the CH-PS.]] [[It was as follows: ‘Article 7b Suspension of dismissal During the period of response to the epidemiological situation caused by the new coronavirus (SARS-CoV-2), the agent causing the disease COVID-19, the work contract termination regime provided for in Article 340(a), (b), (d) and (e) of the Labour Code shall be suspended and covered by Article 343(a) and (b) or Articles 344, 345 and 347.’.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u169	We shall proceed to the vote on the proposal submitted by the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira, to add Article 7. o-B to the bill. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and CDS-PP and CH abstentions.]] [[It was as follows: ‘Article 7b Extraordinary extension of social benefits Extension for two months of unemployment benefits, cessation of activity, cessation of professional activity and other social benefits whose period of granting or term of renewal ends before the cessation of measures to prevent, contain, mitigate and treat epidemiological infection by SARS-CoV-2 and the disease COVID-19.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u170	We shall then proceed to the vote on the proposal submitted by the NAP for the addition of Article 7. o-C to Bill No 17 / XIV / 1. a. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected in favour of BE, PAN and MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the PCP, CDS-PP, ENP, CH and IL.]] [[It was as follows: ‘Article 7c Rules on the link between family assistance and the availability of essential service workers 1 — During suspension of educational and non-formal and formative activities as defined in Article 9 of Decree-Law No 10-A/2020 of 13 March, the mobilization for the service or readiness of essential service workers, by the need for the performance of their activity, in the context of the epidemiological outbreak caused by SARS-CoV-2, follows the following: (c) where the family member integrates only one essential service worker, and only the family member can provide assistance referred to in the preceding paragraphs, it shall be provided preferably in accordance with point (b)(ii). 2 — In the situation laid down in the initial part of sub-paragraph (b) (ii) of the previous paragraph, the social support provided for in Article 23 of Decree-Law No 10-A/2020 of 13 March shall correspond to what was due to the worker of essential services irrespective of his right of assistance to the family.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u171	We shall proceed to the vote on the proposal submitted by the CFP for the addition of Article 7. o-C to the bill. [[The vote was taken with votes against the PS and votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the PEN, the CH, the IL and the Member of Parliament registered Joacine Katar Moreira.]] [[It is as follows: ‘Article 7c Essential services Until the cessation of measures to prevent, contain, mitigate and treat epidemiological infection by SARS-CoV-2 and the disease COVID-19, as determined by the national public health authority, the interruption of the domestic supply of the following essential services is prohibited: (a) electricity; (b) gas; (c) water; (d) communications.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u172	We shall vote on the proposal submitted by BE to add Article 7. o-C to the bill. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, ENP, CH and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and CDS-PP and IL abstentions.]] [[It was as follows: ‘Article 7c Security of the Right to Housing During the period of response to the epidemiological situation caused by the new coronavirus (SARS-CoV-2), the agent causing the disease COVID-19, applies: (a) Moratorium for the payment of claims secured by mortgages on property for the proper and permanent housing of dependent and independent workers who are in a situation of economic vulnerability, caused by unemployment or sudden breakdown of income, as well as by borrowers infected by COVID-19; (b) Moratorium for all redundancies or unlawful, administrative, judicial or extrajudicial occupations, as opposed to the renewal of the contract, to the resolution by the landlord, to the complaint by the landlord, to the execution of mortgages for debts, enforcement of the right of property intended for housing or leased, as well as the suspension of the terms of the New Employment Scheme of Urban Rentation’;]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u173	We shall proceed to the vote on the proposal submitted by Mrs Joacine Katar Moreira, who has not signed up to Article 7. o-C to the bill. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and IL were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the CDS-PP and the CH.]] [[It was as follows: ‘Article 7c First-needed goods Six-month housing for the payment of electricity, water, gas and communications to families whose net income is affected by prevention, containment, mitigation and treatment of the epidemiological infection by SARS-CoV-2 and the disease COVID-19.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u174	We shall proceed to the vote on the proposal submitted by the NAP for the addition of Article 7. o-D to Bill No 17 / XIV / 1. a. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected in favour of BE, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and the CH and IL abstentions.]] [[It was as follows: ‘Article 7d Strengthening the means of care for victims of domestic violence The Government guarantees all means of response to victims of domestic violence, including the strengthening of the telephone service line, in order to ensure the full and timely response to those victims.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u175	We shall now proceed to the vote on the proposal submitted by the CFP for an addendum to Article 7. o-D to the bill.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u176	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u177	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u178	Mr President, the PS Parliamentary Group calls for the breakdown of point (b) of this proposal, voting together on points (a) and (c) as well as on the body of the article.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u179	If there is no opposition — I assume that silence is equivalent to acceptance — then we shall begin by voting on the body of the article and points ( a) and ( c) of the proposal submitted by the CFP for the addition of Article 7. o-D to Bill No 17 / XIV / 1. a. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH and MP Joacine Katar Moreira and CDS-PP and IL abstentions were adopted.]] [[‘Article 7d Extraordinary and transitional scheme for the protection of leasers Until the end of the measures for the prevention, containment, mitigation and treatment of the epidemiological infection by SARS-CoV-2 and the disease COVID-19, as determined by the national public health authority:]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u180	We shall now proceed to the vote on point (b) of the same proposal. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, the CFP, the NAP, the ENP and the Member of Parliament registered Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD, the CDS-PP, the CH and the IL.]] [[It was as follows: ‘(b) the obligation to take up the leased property following opposition by the landlord to the renewal of the contract, as well as the execution of the eviction, including when it comes to property belonging to the public housing park, is suspended;’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u181	We shall vote on the proposal submitted by BE to add Article 7. o-D to the bill. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and IL were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the CDS-PP and the CH.]] [[It was as follows: ‘Article 7d Requirement of services for the health area 1 — The member of the Government responsible for the health area shall request the professionals, equipment and facilities of the private and social sectors necessary to respond to the emergency situation of public health. 2 — The required means shall remain under the protection of the Ministry of Health and shall, during the period during which the request is made, be integrated into the National Health Service.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u182	We shall proceed to the vote on the proposal submitted by Mrs Joacine Katar Moreira, who has not signed up to Article 7. o-D to the bill.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u183	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u184	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u185	Mr President, it is to request that the vote on paragraph 3 of the other numbers of the proposal be broken down.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u186	Mrs. Members, having no objection, then, we turn to the vote on paragraph 3 of the proposal, tabled by Mrs Joacine Katar Moreira, on the addition of Article 7. o-D to the bill. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected in favour of the EPC, the CFP, the NAP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and CDS-PP, the CH and the IL.]] [[It was as follows: ‘3 — Deferred from the payment of the benefits of bank loans, without penalties and/or additional costs, as regards rents acquired for own housing or for economic, social or cultural activities.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u187	Let us now vote on paragraphs 1 and 2 of the same proposal. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, PAN and IL were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, ENP and MP Joacine Katar Moreira and CDS-PP and CH abstentions.]] [[They were as follows: ‘Article 7 D Housing 1 — Suspension for two months of payment of income, starting in April 2020, for family aggregates whose income is equal to or less than the national minimum wage. 2 — Automatic renewal for six months of lease contracts to be completed, including those for which the landlords have opposed their renewal.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u188	We shall now proceed to the vote on the proposal submitted by the NAP for the addition of Article 7. o-E to the bill. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected and votes against the BE, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the PEV, the IL and the Member who did not register Joacine Katar Moreira and the CH abstention.]] [[It was as follows: ‘Article 7 and Measures to protect persons in a situation of homeless persons 1 — The Government shall lift the needs of persons in a situation of homeless persons. 2 — The Government shall further promote the necessary procedures, in coordination with local authorities and associations working in this area, with a view to strengthening mechanisms for responding to the needs of homeless persons.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u189	We shall then proceed to the vote on the proposal submitted by the CFP for an addendum to Article 7. o-E to the bill. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, ENP and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and CDS-PP, CH and IL.]] [[It was as follows: ‘Article 7e Exclusion from the application of Law No 8/2012 of 21 February in the context of exceptional and temporary measures to respond to the SARS-CoV-2 epidemic. Health establishments that are part of the National Health Service are exempted from the application of Law No 8/2012 of 21 February in the following situations related to exceptional and temporary measures to respond to the SARS-CoV-2 epidemic: (a) acquisition of medicines; (b) acquisition of chemicals and pharmaceuticals; (c) acquisition of clinical consumption materials and medical devices; (d) acquisition of goods and services.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u190	We shall proceed to the vote on the proposal submitted by BE for the addition of Article 7. o-E to the bill. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and IL were rejected, votes against the BE and the Member of Parliament included Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the PCP, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the ENP and the CH.]] [[It was as follows: ‘Article 7e Suspension of accumulation of functions in addition to the exceptional measures provided for in Article 6 of Decree-Law No 10-A/2020 of 13 March, shall be suspended, with immediate effect, authorizations to accumulate the functions of the National Health Service professionals, except accumulations with other institutions of the National Health Service, with the National Institute for Medical Emergency or Civil Protection.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u191	The vote was followed by the vote on the proposal submitted by Mrs Joacine Katar Moreira, who did not register Mr Moreira, to add an article 7. o-E to Bill No 17 / XIV / 1. a. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, PAN, ENP and MP not included Joacine Katar Moreira and the CH abstention.]] [[It was as follows: ‘Article 7e Maintenance supply Restriction for a period of three months of price rise and/or speculation of any product, good or service, during the contingency period of the epidemiological infection by SARS-CoV-2 and the disease COVID-19.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u192	We shall proceed to the vote on the proposal submitted by the NAP for the addition of Article 7. o-F to the bill. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, PAN, ENP and MP not included Joacine Katar Moreira and CDS-PP and CH abstentions.]] [[It was as follows: Article 7f Measures for the protection of the elderly The Government shall draw up, in coordination with local authorities, a specific response plan for proximity, by contacting and ensuring the monitoring and support of the older population.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u193	We shall now proceed to the vote on the proposal submitted by the CFP for the addition of Article 7. o-F to the bill. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, ENP, CH and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and CDS-PP, PAN and IL.]] [[It was as follows: ‘Article 7f Exceptional and temporary measures relating to food supply 1 — The conditions provided for in the measures for the prevention, containment, mitigation and treatment of the epidemiological infection by SARS-CoV-2 and of the COVID-19 disease for the operation of commercial areas are also applicable to markets of agricultural and agri-food products operating in permanent or temporary premises and available for the purpose of entry control mechanisms. 2 — Public services providing for the management of public canteens and restaurants are authorised to establish an exceptional preferential regime for the purchase of food directly to producers.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u194	We shall then proceed to the vote on the proposal by BE for an addendum to Article 7. o-F to the bill. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD and IL and votes against BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected.]] [[It was as follows: ‘Article 7f Production of personal protective equipment and other materials and equipment 1 — The Government shall remove, within 48 hours, the production capacity installed in the country for the production of masks, personal protective equipment, fans and other goods and equipment which are fundamental to dealing with the emergency state of public health, involving the Government in these companies in order to intensify the production of such equipment and materials for the supply of the SNS. 2 — For the purposes of the previous paragraph, all undertakings with the capacity to produce such equipment shall immediately report that capacity up to a maximum of 48 hours. 3 — Companies which have such materials shall also make their immediate communication to the member of the Government responsible for the area of health.’;]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u195	We shall vote on the proposal submitted by the NAP to add Article 7. o-G to the bill. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, PCP and ENP were rejected, votes against BE, PAN, IL of non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and CDS-PP and CH.]] [[It was as follows: ‘Article 7g Expiry and limitation deadlines Within the shortest possible period, the members of the Government responsible for the area of justice shall approve a port which shall ensure the suspension, in the fair proportionality of the expiry and limitation periods, of the legal and administrative proceedings under way.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u196	We shall proceed to the vote on the proposal submitted by the NAP for the addition of Article 7. o-H to the bill. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected in favour of BE, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the PEV, the CH and the Member who did not register Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstention from the IL.]] [[It was as follows: ‘Article 7h Accessibility of the National Health Service Contact Centre (SNS24) The Government guarantees the accessibility of the National Health Service Contact Centre (SNS24), providing a video-call/video-conferencing service that enables communication through the Portuguese Gestive Language (LGP).’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u197	We shall then vote on Article 8. The proposal of the law. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The vote on the proposal submitted by the CFP was followed by the addition of Article 8. o -A to the bill. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, ENP and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and CDS-PP, CH and IL.]] [[It was as follows: ‘Article 8a Financing of exceptional and temporary measures to respond to the SARS-CoV-2 epidemic Exceptional and temporary measures to respond to the SARS-CoV-2 epidemic, including those provided for in Decree-Law No 10-A/2020 of 13 March, and in this Act, are financed by the State budget, without prejudice to the use of Community funding.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u198	The vote on Article 9 shall follow. The proposal of the law. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall proceed to the vote on the proposal by the CDS-PP amending Article 10. The proposal for a law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD and votes against the BE, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the PEN, the CH, the IL and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected.]] [[It was as follows: ‘Article 10 [...] This law shall take effect on the date of the production of the effects of Decree-Law No 10-A/2020 of 13 March, with the exception of Article 7, which shall take effect from 9 March 2020.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u199	We shall proceed to the vote on Article 10. The proposal of the law. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u200	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u201	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u202	Mr President, it is to correct two ways of voting. The PSD Parliamentary Group, in relation to the proposal of the BE to add an Article 7. o -A and the proposal of the CFP to add an article 7. o-C, whose reference is respectively to pages 17 and 19 of the script, voted in favour, but we intend to change our sense of vote against.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u203	If we do so, we will see if the results of these votes remain. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Members, the result of the vote on those proposals is changed, both of which are rejected. Mrs. Members, we follow the overall final vote of the Bill No 17 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves exceptional and temporary measures to respond to the epidemiological situation caused by the new coronavirus ( SARS-CoV-2 ) and the COVID-19 disease. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN, CH and IL and the non-registered PCP, PEV and MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u204	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u205	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u206	Mr President, the PS Parliamentary Group requires a waiver of final drafting and also of the deadline for claims against inaccuracies of the Bill No 17 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves exceptional and temporary measures to respond to the epidemiological situation caused by the new coronavirus ( SARS-CoV-2 ) and the COVID-19 disease, which we just voted on.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u207	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u208	The honourable Member is asking for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u209	Mr President, it is only to announce the delivery to the Bureau of a statement of vote, but we must first vote on the request of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u210	We will vote on the request made by the Socialist Party, which we all hear well and have in good memory. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] In this way, the Socialist Party's claim regarding the subsequent processing of this bill is welcomed.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u211	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u212	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u213	Mr President, it is to announce the delivery of a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u214	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the vote is over. I am going to give the floor to Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha to account for the legislative initiatives that have entered the Bureau. Please, Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u215	Mr. President and Mr. Members, have entered the Bureau, and have been admitted, Bill No 260 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Reparation of tax injustices against pensioners, which goes down to 5 : the Commission in connection with 10. the Commission, and draft resolutions Nos 319 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Strengthening of information, inspection and monitoring of waste management activities and conditioning of landfill waste, which falls to 11. the Commission, 320 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Strengthening of information, monitoring and characterization of ambient air quality in Portugal, which falls to 11. the Commission, 321 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government comply with the Ombudsman's recommendations to eliminate significant delays in issuing multi-purpose medical certificates of disability, which falls to 9. the Commission, 322 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government urgently requalify the Basic School Dr. António Augusto Louro, in the municipality of Sixal, and disclose the schedule of asbestos fiber removal interventions in school equipment, which falls to 8. the Commission, 323 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of exceptional measures in higher education and science in the context of the prevention of COVID-19, which falls to 3. the Commission, and 324 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Improvement of navigational and safety conditions in the Spouse Bar. I also report that the Constitutional Review Project No. 2 / XIV / 1 was withdrawn. a (CH) — By reducing the minimum number of constitutionally planned Members. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-18.u216	Thank you very much, Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, next Tuesday, for 15 hours, there will be a plenary meeting for the 15-year debate with the Prime Minister. Allow me to suggest to the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen, let us take care of ourselves and, above all, tell everyone that we must protect ourselves. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much and very soon. The session is closed. [[It was 19 hours and 58 minutes.]]
