ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, let's start the session. [[It was 15 hours and 3 minutes.]] Mrs. Officers of authority, I ask you to open the gates of the galleries. Before we get on the agenda, Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha has several communications to make. Please, Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members have entered the Bureau, and have been admitted, the legislative initiatives to be announced : Bill Nos 13 / XIV / 1. a ( ALRAM ) — Amends the Tax Code on Added Value as approved by Decree-Law No 394 - B / 84 of 26 December — Exemption of services rendered in the exercise of the veterinary profession of payment of value added tax ( VAT ), which is lower than 5. the Commission ; 14 / XIV / 1. a ( ALRAM ) — Amends the Code of the Tax on the Income of Collective Persons, approved by Decree-Law No 442 - B / 88 of 30 November, and to Decree-Law No 413 / 98 of 31 December, in its current wording, which approved the Supplementary Procedure for Tax and Customs Inspection — On the basis of the autonomous regions'right to the tax revenue of IRC arising from income obtained in their territory, which falls to 5. the Commission, and 14 / 14 / 1. a ( ALRAM ) — Amends the Code of the Tax on the Income of Single Persons, approved by Decree-Law No 442 -A / 88 of 30 November, for the elimination of taxation at IRS on compensation and subsidies taken by Portuguese firefighters in the provision of voluntary service, which goes down to 5. the Commission. They also entered the Bureau, and were admitted, the Bill No. 195 / XIV / 1. a ( IL) — regulates the anticipation of the end of life, in a dignified, conscious and assisted form, which falls to 1. the Commission, in connection with 9. the Commission, and draft resolution Nos 241 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends that the Government public consultation of the action programmes of the National Plan of Integrated Management of Rural Fires, which falls to 7. the Commission and 242 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government ensure a decisive participation of the State in the capital of the CTTs — Correios de Portugal, SA, which falls to 6. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u3	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's get on the agenda. The first point is for political declarations, the first of which is for the Parliamentary Group of the CDS-PP. You have the floor, therefore, for a political statement, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On 20 February, the Portuguese Parliament will again discuss and vote, in general, on the draft laws of the PS, the Bloc, the PAN and the DOS Verdes to legalise euthanasia under certain conditions. The agenda was decided on January 30, during the full period of budgetary discussion, without any prior time for preparation, for listening to interested persons, and still lacking some opinions, such as the National Council of Ethics for Life Sciences, the Order of Lawyers, the Order of Psychologists and even the Order of Physicians, in the case of the project of the ENP. Dir-CL-me that there has already been time, in May 2018, for discussion, for opinions and for all clarifications. I am simply responding to this: if this discussion has already happened, and if it has already happened clarifyingly, the result of the vote was also clarifier. And Parliament voted against euthanasia. If the discussion is closed, then the decision should also be taken. But on 20 February, we, the 230 Members, will again be called upon to decide on the legalization of euthanasia. Parties such as PS or PSD did not present a position on this matter in their electoral programmes. This means that 187 Members will vote without a clear mandate from their voters. They will therefore vote according to the indication of the party, given a posteriori, or according to their conscience. Many of these 187 Mrs. Members and Members of Parliament were not here in the previous debate and they should, if not for themselves, be those who represent, the same time of consultation, reflection and discussion that was allowed in the previous legislature before the vote in general.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u5	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u6	The rush is neither sensible nor recommended in such a matter. And it is disturbing to realize that this haste did not exist in other legislative initiatives, even in consensus in its principles, such as the Statute of the Informal Caregiver, which took three and a half years between the first proposal, brought by the CDS, and the final law, adopted in September 2019, and which still has no effect today. Equally disturbing is the vote on the legalization of euthanasia when we just met the Autumn Report of the Portuguese Palliative Care Observatory, which exposes that the universal coverage of palliative care in our country is far from being achieved, with deep asymmetries both geographically and at the level of types of care. This Report also states that in 2018 about 102 000 adult patients and about 8,000 children needed palliative care, but only 25% of adults and 0, 1% of children had effective access. It also says that there is equivalent to 66 doctors, when there should be at least 496 ; that we have 243 nurses, when there should be 2384 ; that there are 17 psychologists there, when the need is 195, and 22 social workers, when they should also be 195. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: According to this Report, in 2018, the median time of weekly dedication to each patient in palliative care is 44, 5 minutes in the area of medicine, 82, 5 minutes in nursing, 8, 8 minutes in psychology and 10 minutes in the area of social service. I repeat: there are three quarters of an hour per week in medical care and 10 minutes of social support offered to a patient in a limited situation. They will argue that palliative care and euthanasia are different subjects, but the truth is that they are inseparable. Without palliative care, what choice do you think you're giving? Oh, my God! Faced with a suffering without relief, in solitude, without care or caregiver, euthanasia will be a limitation and not an extension of choice. It will, by default, push people and their families into avoidable experiences. They will be choices, after all, inhumanes under a layer of humanization. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: This schedule, quick and without discussion, is not an informed and fair way to deal with this issue. It is true that it meets the procedural requirements, but, in a matter like this, it would be expected of this House more than the minimums, from the time of debate. In a total of 157 minutes, ‘no’ has only 18 to present its arguments. The CDS will present itself in this discussion with a clear and known mandate: untiring support for life. Each of us has made and will make sense of his reasons and on the 20th day we will vote against it. I would like every Member to have the time to mature for a decision that will accompany him for the rest of his life, with strong implications in the lives of many and therefore deserve us more than 157 minutes in the afternoon of 20 February 2020. [[Congratulations from the CDS-PP and PSD Member Ricardo Baptista Leite.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u7	Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, wrote to ask for clarification, four Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. I don't know how you want to answer...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u8	I shall answer together, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u9	So, to ask for clarification, you have the floor, first of all, Mr André Silva, of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u10	Mr President, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, not a week has passed since we heard Mrs Cecilia Meireles in this House claiming that the State takes too much action in the lives of its citizens, one state, and I will quote, «that she thinks she can control and make moral judgments on the lives of each one». You had been a citizen who had been unaware of what was being discussed and who did not know Mrs Deputy, listening to that debate and could perfectly believe that the non-criminalization of assisted drug death was being discussed and that the CDS was an acquittal defender of individual freedoms. However, we know - well, those words were not about individual freedoms, they were about taxes. Only newly arrived or unattended citizens in our country can be surprised by the position that the CDS assumes in relation to decriminalization of assisted drug death, exactly the same conservative position already assumed in the past, in other matters, such as voluntary interruption of pregnancy, marriage between people of the same sex, adoption by couples of the same sex or assisted drug procreation. It is appropriate to say that for the CDS, the minimum state only in tax matters, i.e. freedom of even the prosecutor. For the NAP, the decriminalization and regulation of assisted drug death assumes the greatest expression of individual rights and we do not accept the lies and blackmails about the supposed deviation that comes there, with the approval of a law that extends people's autonomy. A democratic and plural state must give concrete answers to people and to concrete problems. The possibility of each person conforming his/her life according to his/her values, according to his/her globalization, must be guaranteed. We do not accept that political, religious or philosophical guidelines maintain an authoritarian State vision that prevents people from extending their freedom, autonomy and self-determination. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u11	You now have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr Bacalar de Vasconcelos, of the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u12	Mr President, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, I have to confess that I have listened to her with great pleasure and that I would be tempted to agree with much of the issues she has addressed in her speech. It follows, however, that the issue we are dealing with here is neither euthanasia, which is planned and punished in the Criminal Code, and no one here intends to eliminate this punishment, nor palliative care, which also generate a very broad consensus in this House. What is truly surprising, and, I confess, Mrs Deputies, something that is detrimental to the very dignity of the parliamentary institution, is that, less than two years ago, we have been engaged in a serene and deep debate here, not on euthanasia, not on palliative care, which I repeat deserves a broad consensus in this House, but on a measure which is aimed exclusively at...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u13	Legalize euthanasia!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u14	... to protect and strengthen human freedom and dignity: assisted death, provided for in the various projects we discussed and on which we heard all the institutions and all the citizens who expressed interest, in two working committees, constituted within the framework of 1. the Commission, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, the second of which is chaired by a Member of the CDS, Mrs Vania Dias da Silva, who unfortunately is no longer between us,... [[He is, he is! Calm down! He's in Braga!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u15	Between us, here, in this house! But that is an issue that only the CDS can clarify. on this occasion, there was an abundant opportunity to clarify, clarify and record an extremely delicate operation to defend the freedom and dignity of human life.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u16	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u17	That is what we have to discuss and not the prejudices or taboos that have been echoed here. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u18	You now have the floor, for a request for clarification, Mr José Manuel Pureza, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u19	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, I would like to congratulate you on the serene way in which you made your political statement, because it is precisely in this register that we believe that this complex issue must be addressed in Parliament and outside it. But compliance with the formal register, which we consider, of course, is not in agreement with the substance. In fact, what we have to decide - and we are not going to anticipate today this debate that we have been doing for a long time, but to which we will come back on the 20th day - is, in good rigour, whether or not we are, as Members and Members, available to give a positive response to those people who, consciously, do not want to have their end of life or plunged into agony, nor plunged into loss of relational sense, resulting from intense palliative care. That is why to put the question, as Mrs Deputy has put, as an alternative, in practice, between palliative care and decriminalization of assisted death, does not seem to us to be a right way. It's actually a way that needs to be complementary. On this side they have a bench that is firmly committed, as we have demonstrated so recently in the budget debate itself, to contribute to the fulfilment of the set of designs that are set out in the Strategic Plan for the Development of Palliative Care by 2020. Madam Member, what we have to decide is, in fact, whether or not we are available to extend the space of tolerance in Portugal. That is the decision we will have to make on day 20.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u20	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u21	I will finish, Mr. President. I am convinced that in this House there will be a large majority of people who are available to assume all the responsibilities for extending tolerance in Portugal. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u22	You have the floor, for a request for clarification, Mr António Filipe of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u23	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa has in a way anticipated part of the debate which, of course, we will have on 20th. What we basically wanted to say today is that what we are going to discuss on the 20th day is not the individual consciousness of each one.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u24	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u25	We're not going to discuss the validity of someone's option to make a judgment about their end of life. We will discuss a state attitude, an attitude of the legislator. That's what we're going to discuss.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u26	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u27	therefore, when the issue of palliative care is brought here, the question that can be raised is this: a State that does not guarantee palliative care for people, a State that does not yet guarantee the conditions for people to have a situation of comfort, not suffering in their end of life, is the same state that will guarantee legal conditions so that people can ask the State to help them die? That's the point! We are not here discussing the dignity of the people, the dignity of each one. We are discussing the dignity of the State before this issue, which is no longer the assumption of their responsibilities for the care that must be given to people in the end of life.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u28	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u29	Madam Member, it is important to have a reflection on the experiences that exist. We know that there are four countries in Europe that have gone on the path of legalisation of euthanasia.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u30	One more, yesterday!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u31	We do not make intentions processes, but we believe that reality should be observed. Knowing the reality that exists in countries such as Switzerland or the Netherlands in the area of euthanasia, which also had supposedly very careful legislation, we need to know whether that is what we want for our country. That is not what we want for our country in the CFP, and that is the position we will maintain in the debate on 20th, with all respect for the opposite opinion, also waiting for tolerance and respect for our position. [[Congratulations on the PCP and on the PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u32	In reply, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa from the CDS-PP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u33	Mr. President, thank you to the honourable Members. Mr André Silva, Mr Vasconcelos, Mr José Manuel Pureza and Mr António Filipe for the questions put. He spoke of various aspects, and to begin with, he spoke of freedom. Mr André Silva, I really want to keep this debate in the right light, but I cannot compare what we are discussing with what Mrs Meireles has been dealing with a few days ago about the freedom to decide on food choices. It seems to me that we are in such different planes that I think it is inappropriate to bring this comparison here. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u34	There's time for everything.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u35	If we were simply talking about freedom, as you put it here, then it would be very simple: it would be enough for someone to arrive at a hospital and, in full consciousness, to ask for his finished life, proven his health for that decision.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u36	It would be unconstitutional!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u37	You know that this is not so, from the very outset, because in your project — in fact, in all the projects under discussion, with more or less restrictions, and, understandably, still well — this decision is handed over to doctors, who will validate whether or not they can be taken, on the limit, saying no. Therefore, I do not know whether it is so correct and so rigorous to put this issue in the field of freedom of choice, as you did here. In my opinion, it is clearly not.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u38	Did you want total freedom? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u39	Yes, Mr. José Manuel Pureza, we are deciding on the legalization of euthanasia.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u40	It's not legalizing, it's decriminalizing!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u41	We can use many euphemisms and talk about assisted death, but, in fact, what we are discussing is the possibility of the State allowing someone, at the request of another, to withdraw life from that person. That's not a minor thing. It is a civilizational change, it is not a small amendment to the Penal Code. As you well know, this is a question that has implications in all fields and it would be worth considering very well what we are doing and we will not try to minimize it so that it will pass through the discussion more smoothly. On the fact that we know whether or not the discussion already existed, I am saying again that in May 2018 there was a time when, before voting in general, there was capacity to reflect and discuss matters. I would like this time to have been at the same time, because if this debate is not necessary, then I would say again, the vote would not be necessary either. If the debate was over and clarified, the vote was also enlightening. Finally, I fully agree with what Mr António Filipe said. A State that does not guarantee 100 % access to palliative care — regardless of financial capacity, because we know, realistically, that nowadays depends — is a State that has resigned from its role in building a social contract, in realising and caring for its citizens until the end of its life, admitting that it is not capable of doing so, offering another, apparently more humanizing way, but deeply dehumanizing. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u42	You now have the floor, for a political statement, Mr André Silva, of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u43	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This State budget carries a special symbolic burden in itself. It was probably the Budget of the farewells of Mário Centeno, which, according to consistent news, which have come to the public in recent times, will already be of raw materials to succeed Carlos Costa as Governor of Banco de Portugal. This is still a taboo for the PS and for the government, but I would say it is the worst hidden secret in Portugal. However, this secret has the merit of allowing the debate to be reopened on the current model of appointment of the Governor of Banco de Portugal. With regard to the issue of financial supervision in the last legislature, several political parties have put the focus of the discussion on the issue of the exoneration of the Governor of the Banco de Portugal, seeking to strengthen the role of the Assembly of the Republic in this area. However, it must not be overlooked that the framework resulting from the law of the European Union and the interpretation given to it by the Court of Justice of the European Union and the European Central Bank bring a set of highly restrictive rules on the removal of governors from the central banks of the Member States, which is seen on behalf of the guarantee of the functional independence of these institutions, which should not be permeable to the risk of changes to the taste of political majority.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u44	That one now!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u45	from the point of view of the NAP, more important than the exoneration rules are the rules of appointment of the Governor of the Banco de Portugal, since it is at this stage that ensures the full suitability of the chosen personality and thus avoids the need to discuss future exemptions. Today, as we know, the designation of the Governor of the Banco de Portugal is made by a resolution of the Council of Ministers, on a proposal from the Minister of Finance and after the hearing of the competent committee of the Assembly of the Republic, which should prepare a report that describes only the hearing and which under no condition or limits the decision of the Government.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u46	If not, it would be unconstitutional!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u47	The NAP wants to change this framework and will therefore present, in the coming days, a bill that will propose a set of amendments to ensure that, firstly, an opinion of the Committee on Budgets and Finance on the adequacy of the individual's profile to the tasks to be performed is needed; secondly, that this opinion must be approved by a qualified majority of Members in effective functions; thirdly, that the Government must respect the sense of Parliament's opinion in the appointment, thus giving a power of opposition to Parliament, as recommended by the report of the Working Group on the Reform of the Financial Supervision System in 2017 ; and fourthly, that a period of disgust is expected to prevent the occupation of the position of Governor of the Bank of Portugal by persons who have served in the banking sector or have held certain political positions in recent years. These amendments which we propose, and which, we hope, are accompanied by alternative proposals from the other political forces, are essentially aimed at achieving two major objectives. On the one hand, it is intended to ensure that the Governor of Banco de Portugal is a figure that brings together the consensus not only of the parties that form the parliamentary majority that supports the government but also of the opposition parties, something quite important taking into account the crucial role the governor plays in the supervision of the banking system and in order to prevent the figure of the governor from being thrown into political disputes. On the other hand, it seeks to ensure greater credibility, greater professionalism and more ethics to the figure of the Governor of Banco de Portugal, avoiding, in anticipation, that the appointment of the next is marked by a logic of rotating doors between the regulated and the regulator, which has existed so far. Remember, for the most forgotten, that before they occupied the position of governor, Vítor Consáncio was executive director of the BPI and Carlos Costa took office in the Millenium BCP and in the General Deposit Box. The aim is also to avoid excessive political links. Due to the fact that the Governments of Socrates, Coelho and Costa have had relevant interventions in the banking sector in relation to BPN, BES, Banif and the General Deposit Box, this can lead to the fact that the figure of the governor, who had a relevant role in these governments, is involved in scandals and controversy that will only further weaken the institution and the figure of the governor. [[Protests by PS MP Ascenso Simões.]] This reform is urgent because citizens are already full of the many million euros spent due to lack of credibility and competence in supervision, regulatory failures and too close ties of political power to the commercial bank and the Banco de Portugal. Finished that is the debate phase of the Budget and being this, or not, the last of Mário Centeno, is now time to look at the priorities that are placed immediately in the country. For the NAP, in this Legislative Session, the way is also to ensure the necessary consensus to enable a set of reforms to strengthen the credibility of the political system, such as the deepening of the register of interests or the establishment of a legislative footprint mechanism. The citizens call for action. We know, each and every one of us, to meet the demand that the moment puts and have the courage to introduce the necessary changes, under the penalty of opening the doors to the fragmentation of our pluralist democracy. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u48	Mr President, the Bureau has registered requests for clarification from PS, PSD, CDS and PCP. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u49	I shall answer together, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u50	You have the floor, for the first request for clarification, Mr Fernando Anastácio, of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u51	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr André Silva, I think we should all learn, and I think that we have already had the opportunity to do so, that legislative processes created and started with a view to a concrete result and with a proper name usually lead to bad results. The honourable Member began by calling for the House to be credible on the basis of its ability to discuss in general and abstract, but I think it started in the worst way, because it announced a legislative process with its own name. That's not the way and that's not where we should go. [[P.S.'s applause.]] With regard to the model of appointment of the Governor of Banco de Portugal, I want to say that we can always do this debate, as we have already had the opportunity to do here in 2015. at that time the Socialist Party presented an amendment to article 27. the law of banking regulation and the PSD and the CDS presented proposals for amendments in the field of specialty, which were approved in this House by these three political parties. Therefore, the norm, in its current wording, was the one that the PSD and the CDS proposed. However, I would rather have a debate with the emphasis not on the appointment model but on the implementation of the mandate, that is, my dear friends and Members, not so much about how it is named but about the exercise of the mandate of the Governor of the Banco de Portugal. I think we will all agree that the mandate of the current Governor of Banco de Portugal has not generated, nor is it generating, consensus or global appreciation. In fact, he did not generate in his first appointment and did not generate in his second appointment. And many of those cases which you have mentioned, such as those of banking interventions, have happened despite — and I end with this note — Dr. Carlos Costa has no relationship with governments. And this is where I'm staying. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u52	It is the turn of Mr Duarte Pacheco of the PSD Parliamentary Group to request clarifications. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u53	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr André Silva, first of all I would like to say that the PSD does not comment on news speculations about the names on the table for Governor of Banco de Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u54	That's not what's done on Sunday night!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u55	We will patiently wait for the indication of the Government, either for Governor or for the rest of the administration, and at that time we will take a stand. We will not hold back from saying what we think about it at the right time, but not about speculation. Should the appointment process be revised or not? Yes, we are always available to improve any appointment procedure, particularly for senior positions of the State, such as the Governor of the Banco de Portugal, and to safeguard both the independence of the institution and the technical competence of the individuals. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot make changes ad homme scrupulously designed to include or exclude someone. The laws of the Republic must be general and abstract. This is our posture all the time. Finally, I would like to tell the honourable Member that today the parliamentary committee already has jurisdiction in this area: it does the hearings and reports. It is true that the report is not binding, but I also doubt that a government will appoint someone to be approved in Parliament a critical or negative report on the personality to be indicated. Moreover, being not binding increases our responsibility, because these hearings within the budget committee cannot be a pro-forma for the personality that comes here, nor for the Members who will inquire of the individual. We must scrupulously fulfill our role of ensuring that the person ahead of us has a solid project for the institution that will chair and that has the competence to occupy the place.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u56	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u57	I'm done, Mr. President. If we perform this role as it should be, the independence of the person indicated for the Governor of Banco de Portugal is already safeguarded. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u58	You have the floor, to ask for clarifications, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u59	Mr President, Mr André Silva, all times are good to discuss the rules of the Banco de Portugal — rules of appointment, rules of exemption, rules of operation. All this has already been discussed in the Assembly of the Republic and it will continue to be. The NAP comes again to a debate which is very old in this House and I have already told you that the position of the Left Block is that the appointment of the Governor of the Banco de Portugal should be made with a binding opinion of the Assembly of the Republic. This is the historic position of the Left Block and we already defend it here. Other parties argue, for example, that it must be appointed by the President of the Republic. I also tell you, Mr, that you are wrong if you think this will solve the problem of Banco de Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u60	I didn't say that!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u61	Think, for example, of Carlos Costa. Its appointment for Governor of Banco de Portugal was consensual among the largest parties of the Assembly of the Republic — the PS, the PSD and the CDS.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u62	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u63	This was the case in the first appointment, and this was the case when it was renewed by the PSD/CDS government, even after the BSE crisis. Both in 2017 and 2019, when the Left Block presented a project recommending the exemption of Carlos Costa and Governor, the PAN voted against. In addition, in 2019 he voted in favour and in 2017 he voted against.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u64	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u65	Therefore, the junctural majority are created. But apart from the rules of appointment, we need to know what the rules of exemption are. In other words, when a Governor shows that he is incompetent or unable to perform his duties, as is the case of the current Governor of the Banco de Portugal, we need to know what powers the Assembly of the Republic and the Government have to exempt him. I am sorry that the NAP has given up this fight, at least that was what I thought of its intervention. A different thing, too, is to discuss the rotating door of the tables between the Banco de Portugal and the banking system, but not only, between the Banco de Portugal and the large consultants: they leave Deloitte go to Banco de Portugal, leave the Banco de Portugal go to Price, leave Price return to Banco de Portugal, and thus perpetuate a wheel of paintings.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u66	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u67	Finally, Mr President, we must also discuss the very institutional characteristics of the Banco de Portugal, which, under its independence status, concludes that it is above democracy and any democratic scrutiny. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u68	Mr. João Pinho de Almeida has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u69	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr André Silva, the subject here is relevant because it is not indifferent to political debate. On the contrary, it is very important to know whether we have a Minister of Finance in the long run. This is the first political issue. Before we discuss any possible appointment of the Minister of Finance for any political position, it is necessary to know whether someone who has the responsibility of the Government hierarchy and who is, above all, the Minister of State, who has just presented to the Assembly of the Republic a Budget, having approved it, and who, on behalf of Portugal, presides over the Eurogroup, is focused on its functions or is focused on discussing its future and for which office he will be next. from our point of view, politically, this is enough matter to be discussed here, because we believe that the Minister of Finance has to be 100 % in his duties. The whole country has discussed, since its appointment for this government — not even since the discussion of this budget — whether the Minister of Finance leaves in the first year of government, whether he leaves following the first or the second budget or whether he leaves in the middle of the mandate. This is because no one gives him more longevity than that, which is very bad for the stability of government in Portugal. We therefore not only censure this, as we are going further in the debate on the independence of the Banco de Portugal and the process of appointing all regulators — the CDS presented initiatives on this subject in the past legislature. There is a problem with all regulators here: the Portuguese State has never been able to consolidate a model of regulation and supervision with truly independent entities. We must be aware of this and debate this issue. We have a problem in many areas which is that of having a small market, which makes it difficult to be independent and exempt from this regulation. But if we introduce, in addition to the problems we already have of market failures, the problem of confusion between the independence of regulators and supervisors and the exercise of political positions, we are obviously harming that solution.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u70	You've outlived your time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u71	I will finish, Mr. President. Mr President, I ask you very clearly whether or not you recognise that, apart from a formal problem, there is a political problem in this indefinition of the situation of the Minister for Finance. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u72	Mr Duarte Alves of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u73	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr André Silva, the PAN brings to this debate the issue of transparency in the rules of appointment of the Governor of Banco de Portugal. We have noted that the NAP, in its speech, does not question the rules on this issue emanating from the Banking Union, but we have and do not agree. On this matter, the position of the CFP is known and reality has come to be right. There is no point where it is caught in a supervisory system that is based on blind trust in auditors who are paid by the banks themselves. As we have already said, banking supervision under the capitalist financial system is an insufficient and inefficient control mechanism. It is insufficient because the objective conditions in which the supervisor develops his mission do not allow for an intrusive presence and effective control over the accounts and practices of the financial system. It is inefficient because the supervisor is an emanation of the banking system and not a public instrument of scrutiny and effective control. The reality has given reason to the PCP: this supervisory model failed, did not avoid the successive scandals of BPN, BES, BANIF, among others, and was unable to prevent the fraudulent practices of the bank. Let us not forget that today the Banco de Portugal is a branch of the ECB ( European Central Bank ) and that the largest Portuguese banks are under their direct supervision, exceeding national sovereignty and exacerbating the inefficiency of this system.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u74	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u75	My question to the Member of the NAP is the following: consider— Beyond the names, which is important, of the transparency of appointments—that what is really necessary is to break up with an insufficient and inefficient supervisory system and that the only solution, to end the scandals and to place the bank at the service of the country, is to ensure the public control of the bank? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u76	To reply, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u77	Mr President, I would like to thank all of you for your questions. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr Duarte Pacheco, from the PSD, said he did not comment speculations about names indicated for the Banco de Portugal, but PSD Members did - this morning saying that they were against the appointment of Mário Centeno. Therefore, you should be a little more aligned with the statements you make. I also said that, yes, of course, the process should be reviewed but that we cannot do so right now. Sure, let's wait another five years! In addition, he said that the parliamentary committee already has powers on this subject. No, you don't. It has the power to draw up a report which is only descriptive, not responsible and not binding. Mrs Mariana Mortágua, from the Left Block, said she agreed that all times are good to discuss the rules of supervision and said that the NAP has now reached an old debate. Yes, this is a debate that has been going on for decades, to which the NAP now arrives to make its contribution. I remember that only three months ago is that we are a parliamentary group, so it is natural that the NAP has only arrived now, Mrs. More: the NAP did not say here that it discovered the wheel, the NAP is coming right now and contributing to a debate that already exists, of course. She also said that the NAP proposal would not solve the problems of the Banco de Portugal. No, it will not solve, but it can help, in fact, it will help, as it will agree with us. He also mentioned that the name Carlos Costa was not consensual in Parliament. It was consensual between PS and PSD — of course! — but you will agree with me that we have to start new rules and new devices to go beyond the normal consensus between PS and PSD. He also pointed out that the NAP would eventually have given up the fight on exoneration. No, we don't give up. We're next door. The question is that, for us at the moment, it is a matter of priority to resolve the issue of appointment and we will be with any party which, in accordance with European law, resolves the issues of exoneration, only that. We therefore agree with that question. Mr João Almeida, from the CDS, said that they have already proposed a solution to this issue in the past, a solution that we follow but which is perhaps unconstitutional, since the powers of the President of the Republic are those which are inscribed in the Constitution. If we may wish to extend competence and power to the President of the Republic, then let us start a constitutional review process — in fact, as envisaged in our electoral programme. Regardless of whether there is a majority who does not want to initiate a constitutional review process, we hope that the CDS will accompany us in this and other matters.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u78	Desired are they to review the Constitution!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u79	Mr Fernando Anastácio of the Socialist Party said that legislative processes do not start with a name, because they do not believe in the Assembly of the Republic and that, in essence, this is not a good time to open the debate. We think it is. Are we gonna wait another five years? Oh, my God! The NAP does not want or is personalizing the issue of whether or not Mário Centeno is going to Banco de Portugal. He is recognized as a very competent technician. This has nothing to do with the person himself.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u80	Sir, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u81	But of course, the name Mário Centeno raises the greatest ethical doubts, since we are facing a clear conflict of interest. Confirming the appointment, Centeno will be appointed by the same Council of Ministers that is part of it, will lead a regulatory council that he himself has chosen and appointed, will apply a set of diplomas that he himself has been reviewing in recent years and will carry out technical studies and analyses on the performance of the Portuguese economy in which his role and his options, as Minister of Finance, will always have to come to the colloquium. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u82	Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor for a political statement.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u83	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Soils are a fundamental pillar for the development of life on the planet, performing important functions at environmental, social and economic level. We speak of a resource subject to increasing pressure and over-exploration, resulting in its degradation due to contamination, waterproofing or erosion that can seriously and irreversibly damage them. Today, the Greens are bringing the issue of soil contamination, which is a serious problem and a danger to public health and the environment, so in no circumstances can they neglect their proper decontamination and ensure that new sites are not contaminated. It is important to remember that there are national and international instruments and commitments to protect and repair contaminated areas, but we are still far from achieving this goal. In Portugal, there is no specific legislation that properly and in an integrated way protects soil, although there is legislation in several areas that has just dealt with issues relating to soil protection against anthropogenic contamination. The fact is that the PRoSolos law, which aims to establish the legal regime for the prevention of soil contamination and remedying, is to be published indefinitely. It is recalled that the public consultation period of this diploma was completed in November 2015, but it happens that we arrived to today, almost five years after the conclusion of that public consultation, and the country continues to await the publication of a law that responds to a set of problems. This is worrying, especially when it is estimated that there are about 2000 contaminated sites in Portugal, which is one of the few countries of the European Union without specific legislation on contaminated soils and which does not have mapping of contaminated areas. The problem is far from being solved, but unbelievably, the law continues in the drawer. The Greens have, however, been questioning the government that, despite some answers, does not clearly clarify why this diploma is to be published or when it will be published, which brings us to an indefinite definition that we cannot accept. Since it is certain that this diploma is not perfect and that it could have gone further, however, would be filling a gap in the legislative framework, since it provides for the issue of a soil quality certificate by the entity selling the land, when it comes to places where activities at risk of contamination have been carried out. Today, nothing obliges an entity that sells a land to prove that it is decontaminated. This means that the legislation in question would clarify the chain of responsibility of the various stakeholders in the event of soil contamination and this is an important step. For this reason, the Greens presented, in the previous Parliament, a draft resolution with a view to the publication of this legislation, which, it recalls, was approved unanimously, but one year later, this has not yet happened. In the middle, there were episodes that show the weaknesses in this matter. Among the various cases we could set an example we chose two that happened in Lisbon. At the end of 2016, the expansion works of the CFCU Hospital Discovered, in the Park of Nations, where there were soils contaminated by hydrocarbons, were an example of everything that could not have happened. The APA (Portuguese Environment Agency) and the CCDR ( Committee on Regional Coordination and Development ) were very permissive and only after the controversy was installed did they agree to the problem when most contaminated soils were no longer on site. Now came the case of the expansion works of the Champalimaud Foundation in Pedrouzos, which were suspended by the CCDR due to the existence of contaminated soils. Again, only in the middle of the works were analyzed which indicated the contamination by hydrocarbons, without having had a decontamination plan. As is known, hydrocarbons, in contact with air, may give rise to toxic gases that, inhaled in large quantities, can cause nausea, respiratory diseases and, to the limit, even cancer. It is to these situations that the populations and workers of civil construction companies are subject. This is a great irresponsibility and immorality, but it can and should be avoided. Although construction companies or owners have to ask the CCDR for a waste management licence for their removal and treatment, the reality shows us that, repeatedly, several works start without an assessment of contamination and the analyses are only done with the work to be carried out. This is unbelievable and it is not understood how the CCDR and APA allow these procedures, merely considering that there is no contamination, even taking into account the polluting activities that operate in these locations. In the middle, contaminated soils can be removed, they can be looked at as simple inerts and, even without any treatment, used in new works, also often ignoring the fate of the waters resulting from excavation. So it is appropriate to ask the following: where is the principle of caution, prior control and supervision? However, it is easy to see that soil contamination legislation will help to avoid these situations. In short, the Greens reinforce that this situation cannot continue and that it is essential that legislation finally see the light of day. People need to be sure that the precautionary principle is fulfilled and that all procedures are strictly complied with. We know that it is more expensive to treat contaminated soils, but we are talking about risks to public health and the environment that cannot serve as an excuse or as an excuse, even economic interests can be overshadowed by the safety and quality of life of citizens. [[PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u84	Mr President, the Bureau has registered three Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, request clarification. How do you intend to respond, Mr. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u85	Together, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u86	All right, Mr. Deputies. Mr Hugo Oliveira of the PSD Parliamentary Group has therefore already spoken.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u87	Mr President, Mr José Luís Ferreira, the ENP is speaking today about a matter which has greatly concerned the PSD. I was listening to him and revisiting the questions asked here by the Minister of the Environment, but I think he did not have the opportunity or, at least, the will to answer at the time. On several occasions we have written down a number of questions on this subject. On the question of the law PRoSolos I was talking about recently, the truth is that this legislation has not yet seen the light of the day, which ultimately harms the populations. Let me also tell you that management in the past mandate has not been able to solve this, but I hope that we can now solve it. He could also talk about the problems of São Pedro da Cova, which are chronic, but also those of Montemor-o-Velho or Leça da Palmeira or even of the works of the Champalimaud Foundation, as he spoke recently. I would, however, like to talk about something that also concerns me: from Sacavem and the fact that the GALP launched on day 6 an invitation to tender for the presentation of the remedy solution that leaves the operator responsible for the treatment solution on-the-spot or removal for licensed units or landfills. Is the Government sure that this solution will create conditions for the use of the land in 2022 for the World Youth Day? The government is going — and this is a big question! — take the correct treatment of these land in order to ensure the tranquility of future local users? Do you know that 7000 young people will be in a camp park located in this place when the World Youth Day is held? Would it not be safer to opt for the removal of 180 000 m3 contaminated soils with hazardous waste? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u88	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs. Joana Lima.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u89	Mr President, Mr José Luís Ferreira, welcome to the debate. There is no doubt that the Socialist Party is accompanying him in all the concerns he has expressed and has made known in the speaker's rostrum for what we will be on the front line defending contaminated soils. This is a debate that not only needs to be done, as all parliamentary groups must be mobilised, but not only: they must also mobilize all citizens. Public health is at stake—as I said, well, and we reiterate—and the environment. We are all aware, as you have been careful to mention, that contaminated soils bring many risks. In fact, soil has been subject to increasing pressure and over-exploration with its consequent degradation due to contamination, waterproofing and erosion. We all know that this is the result of human action and, therefore, this is a matter for all, then we all have to contribute to the resolution of it. The Socialist Party continues to argue that issues relating to soil quality should be dealt with within a binding legislative framework, as the honourable Member said, until we know how important it is to regulate soil management in Portugal, in particular in the prevention or minimization of contamination and also in the treatment of contaminated soils, thus ensuring its quality. But it is also necessary to take care of the responsibilities of all parties and to ensure that this is not inviolable. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr José Luís Ferreira, it is necessary to ensure that this matter is treated with a sense of responsibility so that legislation is enforceable. We therefore speak of a diploma of great complexity and which should reflect the contribution of the various sectors. We know — we are aware — that there is a lot to do, but Mr President, I can assure you, as well as the whole House, that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group shares most of your concerns and that it is available to contribute to the resolution of this problem. Mr President, I would like to leave you with this thought and our commitment to follow up on this problem, which is everyone's problem. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u90	Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u91	Mr President, I begin by complimenting the Green Party and Mr. José Luís Ferreira for bringing this issue to the Assembly of the Republic. It is indeed a subject of high sensitivity, but it is also very late. The truth is that we are in the middle of the 21st century and, in our country, we still do not have up-to-date and necessary legislation to respond to the problem identified in relation to contaminated soils. In our country there is no State intervention that safeguards public health and the environment and that safeguards, too, and as Mr Deputy said in his speech, the workers of a group of companies that eventually work in areas with these characteristics. It is important that there is indeed a real survey and knowledge of the situation in our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u92	Mrs. Member, just a moment. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there's a huge noise in the hall. I don't know where he's coming from, but I ask who's standing to sit down and whoever wants to talk to do it outside the Session Room. I also ask all those who are in the galleries to preserve the appropriate silence. You may continue, Mrs. Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u93	Thank you very much, Mr President. The impacts of soil contamination on fauna and flora, but also on certain situations, are impacts that we should not neglect because they may even call into question the quality of groundwater. That is why the issue that is brought here by the Greens Ecological Party, that is, the need for specific legislation to intervene on this particular issue and the State's intervention to safeguard public health and protect the environment, to identify itself and to have a plan of intervention for the resolution of these problems, which is, of course, responsible for the contamination of a wide range of areas in our country, is, in our view, essential and also a need for us to be able to advance and improve the quality of life of all. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u94	Mr Nelson Peralta, from the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor to request clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u95	Mr President, Mr. José Luís Ferreira, soils are a limited element and resource in society and are essential. And it's because they're a limited resource that's pretty serious they're contaminated. It is serious because contaminated soils risk, from the very outset, the ecosystem, the water reserves, but also who lives in these places and who collects food produced there, and it is also a huge risk for civil construction workers and who, in the future, will occupy the buildings in them. And also because they are used as sands, as inerts of civil construction, these soils question public health. That is why the Left Block asks you, Mr President, if you do not consider it essential first to map regions with contaminated soils in the country and then that the land prevention and remedy law be published, this law which has been in the drawer since 2016, which the Government has not yet published, although it has promised to do so until June last year, which solves or, at least, responds to this problem. I would also like to ask you about whether you do not consider that this matter of contaminated soil highlights another issue, which is environmental externalities. It is that soils are contaminated because the heavy industry, the metal industry, the chemical industry, the fibrous factories, the deposition of waste, the shorts, the textile industry, the paper pulp, finally, this whole industry has worked on some sites and left contaminated soils as an inheritance. Does it not believe that this heritage is too heavy for society, from the point of view of the risks to public health, but also from the economic point of view? It is now that society will, in many cases, have to solve these problems. Should it not also be taken into account in activities the essential prohibition of pollution, not generating this externality, in which an economic activity continues its work leaving public health costs and economic costs for society and for the future? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u96	To reply, Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u97	Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank you for the questions put by the honourable Members. Members Hugo Patrício Oliveira, PSD, Joana Lima, PS, Paula Santos, PCP, and Nelson Peralta, Left Block. I think they all focused on the essentials. And the essential thing is that there is, in fact, a lack of ProSolos law. I remember that there was a public discussion about this law five years ago, which is enough time for it to be out of the drawer. In fact, two years ago there was a government commitment to speeding up the process. The Greens were able to adopt a resolution in the Assembly of the Republic for the law to be published, but it continues without seeing the light of the day. It is true that this diploma is not perfect. The text that came for public discussion could even go further, but still, it was a law that would fill a gap in the legislative framework, since an element that, in our view, is very relevant and that it was the issue of a soil quality certificate by the entity selling the land, when it comes to places where contamination risk activities have worked. That was fundamental. That's what happened in the places I mentioned here. I referred to the discovered CF Hospital in the National Park, whose soils were contaminated with hydrocarbons, but when the problem was detected, much of the soils were no longer on the spot, nor do we even know where they were – perhaps, as Mr. Nelson Peralta said recently, until they served other works, which means that they will contaminate other soils. The same happened with the expansion works of the Champalimaud Foundation, in Pedrouzos, because it was in the middle of the works that it was detected that the soils were contaminated. So the fundamental thing here is that the government decides to publish the ProSolos law because it may not be the solution, but it will help to solve many of these problems. Mr Hugo Patrício Oliveira, The Greens also asked written questions to the Government. He said that the previous government did not solve the problem, and that is true, but it was not only the previous government that did not solve the problem, because the world did not start only five years ago, the previous governments did not solve it, and that must also be said. Mrs Joana Lima, register the commitment here made to resolve the problem. It is indeed a problem that must mobilise all Portuguese in this debate and, above all, the Government. The government has to be mobilized to publish the law. There is no public intervention that safeguards the health of the populations, as Mrs Paula Santos said, and this problem is only solved by ProSolos law. Then there is the problem, with all the relevance, of Mr. Nelson Peralta. In fact, the mapping is missing, beyond the ProSolos law. And, in fact, there is a risk that contaminated soils will be used in other works. And this heritage thing is the « dish of the day», even if it is absolutely censorable, because the works that are understood are usually done and then the environmental liability is on account of the taxpayer, which is absolutely unacceptable. [[Congratulations on the ENP and on the PCP Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u98	You now have the floor for a political statement, Mr Carlos Pereira, from the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u99	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The State budget for 2020 marks a substantial turning point in the State's efforts to boost public investment. In the years of the troika, public investment fell systematically: 35, 2 % in 2011 ; plus 32, 3 % in 2012 ; plus 11 % in 2013 ; and even more 6, 9 % in 2014. And it only recovers 17, 4 % in 2015, at the cost of closing the QREN ( National Strategic Reference Framework ), whose execution was mandatory to be completed in that year. Now, this tremendous rumbe in public investment options, a accumulated historical fall of 85, 4 % between 2011 and 2014, obviously had consequences on the quality of public services supply. Recovering investment levels before the troika after the race between 2011 and 2014 would mean moving from current EUR 4200 million, 2019 implementation data to EUR 9500 million, rather than doubling the public investment effort in a scarce resource context. Mr President, in the previous legislation, the Government initiated a prudent approach, based on the idea that it should comply with the objective of normalizing public accounts, but above all, with the return of better living conditions to the populations — in particular, more wages, more social benefits and less taxes on families — was only possible with economic growth. [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... and this had to happen, above all, by strengthening private investment and exports. Moreover, it was very clear in 2016 that the main public investment financing instrument, PT2020 ( Portugal 2020 ), was not fully prepared to respond to needs and in a context of lack of resources the Government focused on preparing the programme, which then reprogrammed, with the opposition only of the PSD and with the support of the entire country, including the Cohesion Country, to respond to public investment needs. [[P.S.'s applause.]] For this reason, because of the impreparation of PT2020, that in 2016, there was a new fall in public investment, but 2017, 2018 and 2019 are marked by an investment in the fall of this investment, with a growth of 37 % in those years. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are not euphoric with the levels of public investment but we do not accept lessons from those who have gone there in the background the almost basic needs of investment, the consequences of which continue to torment the Portuguese. It is in this framework that by 2020 the budgetary objectives are very clear, with the start of projects long awaited by the population in critical areas such as mobility, with investments in rail and with incentives never seen to use public transport, but also with concrete efforts in the areas of health and housing. In macroeconomic terms, the State budget foresees a further increase in public investment, in order of 22 %, seeking to secure an investment of around EUR 5000 million. Mr President, the PS and the government have their feet well grounded: doing more implies more economic growth or different priorities. As part of economic growth, the country has made good and sustainable progress. It grows at the expense of private investment, which has struck never seen records, always above the average of the European Union, and of exports, whose behavior exceeded the expectations of the most optimistic... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... and especially the followers of the arrival of the devil, with average growth of 5, 3 % in the previous legislation. These data give sustainability to the Portuguese economic model, which in terms of total investment and as a percentage of GDP increased from 15 % in 2015 to almost 18 % in 2019. It is true that the country could grow more, with more public investment, but the size of its debt and the need not cancel the mechanisms that allow it to act anticyclical measures force us to a minimum caution. Moreover, growth driven, above all, by public investment is the main sign of unsustainability. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In any case, we also do not observe any bold and bold attitude to change the priorities of expenditure. The opposition proposal, in relation to expenditure, was always in the direction of rising and, on the other hand, in the direction of descent. It is for these and others that, in the past, instead of 4, we had 11 Budgets. Indeed, «the boot has never hit the partridge». Let it be said in favour of the truth that it was not even a problem of prediction, it was of governance. But making faster also implies removing obstacles, which relate to the existing regime of public procurement. In practice, without changes to ensure the maintenance of transparency and at the same time reducing the implementation times of public investment options, it will be difficult to change the picture.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u100	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u101	I'm done now, Mr. President. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: on this successful journey, public investment has always been present and never diabolized. But on this path, we have checked a lot of noise, sometimes hystrionic, about public investment. Interestingly, most of him came precisely from the side of those who sank him.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u102	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u103	They are, in fact, the same ones who suspend works almost in the same tone and with the same wit with which they propose more and more investment. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u104	They have signed up to request clarification from the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy and to request clarification from the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. Deputies Cristovão Norte, do PSD, Bruno Dias, do PCP, João Gonçalves Pereira, do CDS-PP, and Diana Pereira, do BE, to which Mr Carlos Pereira will respond, according to the Bureau, in groups of two. You have the floor, first of all, Mr Cristovão Norte.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u105	Mr President, Mr Carlos Pereira, there would be no better time for the PS once again to proclaim its love for public investment. Today it is precisely four years ago that in 2016 the Government of the Socialist Party launched the Railway 2020, with a projection of revolution with EUR 2,7 billion, the railway in Portugal. Today, according to the audit of the Court of Auditors and also by the recognition of the infrastructure in Portugal, this programme has an implementation rate of 11 %. [[It's true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u106	So what we have to say to the Socialist Party is that the more the Socialist Party talks about public investment, the less public investment there is. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u107	The gentlemen. Members say, in an absolutely contradictory way, that public investment has recovered enormously. The facts, however, lie to you. I will give you the following examples: in 2015, there was a public investment in the order of EUR 4000 million; in 2016 it was less than EUR 1200 million; in 2017 it was less than EUR 700 million than the budgeted, and in 2019 it is only that we are at the level of that government that had a daring view against public investment, which came out of a very difficult episode of financial consolidation but still managed to make more public investment than those who make love vows. We cannot say that this is not an illustration, because it has no meaning in people’s lives. Here you go, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen! It has meaning on ships that do not sail, on trains suppressed, in hospitals that are not made,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u108	... in the National Health Service that is defeated, in the public services that are impoverished. In all these dimensions of Portuguese life, these options — conscious and deliberate options, options that are different in the Budget, because the money is there — are options that are the responsibility of the Socialist Party. And the Socialist Party is once again saying what it has always repeated: "this year is what it is! Hold on to us that this year is what it is; we will be able to make public investment! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Portugal today has less public investment than the European average — 0, 7% below the European average — and this responsibility is solely for the Socialist Party, especially when the tax burden increases to record levels.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u109	Mr. Deputies, I should have finished by now. Thank you very much. He was distracted and I'm sorry, but he has to finish, because he's out of time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u110	So, what are you guys doing? Members of the Socialist Party should do, instead of bringing here the question of public investment, it was to portray themselves for what they have not done. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u111	Thank you very much, Mr. You now have the floor to request clarification from the CFP Parliamentary Group Mr Bruno Dias.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u112	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Carlos Pereira, from the CFP, he well knows that there has never been any doubt as to the need to strengthen and bet on public investment as a development factor. And we also do not forget that some of those who are today, in a higher volume of sound, claiming for lack of investment are precisely those who are at the forefront of the responsibilities for bankruptcy in relation to public investment and deep insufficiency, abating investment and development prospects in the country, including in relation to rail and road,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u113	Very well caught!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u114	... where today we have a portrait of misfortune, as a result of what has been the politics of so many years.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u115	Was it us? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u116	It is essential to strengthen public investment in the State budget, but it must also be implemented. And the question of budgetary implementation in relation to public investment, as you well know, is a problem that we have come to denounce and to which we have been alerting, and which the Government itself recognises.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u117	Ah, do you recognize? Oh, my God! Then it's okay!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u118	It was the government itself that, in the recent past, has changed the legislation and now complains about it, as far as investment difficulties are concerned. I would like to ask you a very objective question, which has to do with the investment needed in relation to infrastructure. The PS and PSD, in their joint vote, led the PCP proposal for the acquisition of railway rolling stock for the suburban and long-term service. After what was heard here, our question is: have you changed your mind? Did they repent? Or, after all, do you have any explanation for the lead that has given to the urgent proposals for strengthening trains, which are so lacking to the people? But we also want to draw attention to the fact that it is not true that the proposals are only for more expenditure and less revenue. The question is: then and PPPs (public-private partnerships), honourable Member? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u119	So far who's renegotiated PPPs, it's us! Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u120	More than EUR 1, EUR 4 billion we proposed that they should be placed on the renegotiation table so that this PPP policy would not be continued, and after all, you keep these PPPs untouched.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u121	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u122	In conclusion, I would say that the investment must be of quality, Mr. It has to be an investment that responds to the needs of the population and has transparency. It is not made with contracts of metropolitan on a Saturday—as happened this weekend—it is certainly not...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u123	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u124	I'm done, Mr. Deputy. I said that it is certainly not done with technical and strategic aberrations that do not serve the populations, as is the case with the circular line, that you insist, in a very worrying way, on imposing on the populations. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u125	Renegotiating PPPs was a tragedy! It's necessary to get rid of them!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u126	Or it's better not to do anything! Have you forgotten that everyone voted for them in the Budgets? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u127	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it's better to keep a little quiet. You have the floor to answer, Mr. Carlos Pereira.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u128	Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen who have asked questions. I would like to begin by answering precisely Mr Cristovão Norte, saying that we are not very surprised at the origin of your question. It's just that she originated in the press and the ladies. Members do politics according to what is going on in the press, but I would suggest to the honourable Member that...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u129	The infrastructure of Portugal has been here, Mr President!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u130	Listen, listen!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u131	As I said, I would suggest to the honourable Member that, from now on, following the intervention he did, in addition to reading the newspapers, he read the statistical bulletins of the INE ( National Institute of Statistics ).
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u132	It was better.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u133	From my point of view, you have made a tremendous confusion with the numbers. And besides having made a terrible confusion, he either lied or can't read the numbers. In Parliament, however, either of these circumstances is serious.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u134	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u135	I would like to say to the honourable Member that the numbers do not lie. If the honourable Member is to read the statistics — in fact, I have had the opportunity to speak of the figures, year by year, until the honourable Member can add them to them — he sees that it is very simple: at the time of the troika, when you governed the country, the fact is that the public investment fell 85%, I repeat, 85%! Mr. Deputies can do whatever juggles you want, but these are numbers: it has fallen! [[Protests by PSD member Cristovão Norte.]] At the time the Socialist Party ruled Portugal over the past four years, the investment rose by 37%! The honourable Member says,... [[Protests by PSD member Cristovão Norte.]] Sir, let me talk.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u136	Listen, listen!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u137	Mr. Deputy said that in 2016 the investment fell. For it fell, we also said, there of the rostrum, that it fell. And the honourable Member knows why he fell? It fell because you left the PT2020 behind! [[P.S.'s applause.]] * They did not know how to prepare the program and when we arrived we had to prepare. He knew clearly that in the context of scarce resources, as the country had, it was absolutely essential to have public investment financed by European funds.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u138	Were there not scarce resources from 2011 to 2015? Oh, my God! The previous government was already the Socialist Party!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u139	But I will finish, Mr President, by reminding you of another chart on public investment financed by taxes. at this moment, the honourable Member has displayed a document with a chart. Now, you can see that the line that represents your investment is down here and that of the Socialist Party is here at the top of the chart. In other words, the financing of tax investment — by State budget, if you prefer — is EUR 600 million.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u140	Have shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u141	More taxes, it's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u142	Don't you want to finance public investment by taxes? Oh, my God! This is even funny, looks like a circus. You want to finance public investment like, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen? Oh, my God! [[Meanwhile, Vice President José Manuel Pureza took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u143	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u144	Mr Bruno Dias, I'd like to tell you...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u145	Sir, you have to finish. You've run out of time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u146	Mr President, I will finish and answer Mr Bruno Dias immediately. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u147	We have entered the second stage of requests for clarification to Mr Carlos Pereira. So you have the floor to make a request for clarification, Mr João Gonçalves Pereira, of the CDS.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u148	Mr President, Mr Carlos Pereira, the honourable Member and the Socialist Party bring to these political statements the subject of public investment. I would say it must be a problem of consciousness of the Socialist Party itself, since it had many seizures and very little public investment. But when it comes to public investment, let me also speak about the infrastructure that you have spoken about here and bring here a subject that has been on the agenda and on which it is important to have clarifications, on the part of the Socialist Party and also of the Government itself, and which concerns the metropolitan and the circular line. About eight months ago, this same House took a discussion on the question of the metropolitan, where the Socialist Party itself here expressed reservations about the issue of the circular line. More recently, at the level of the State budget, Parliament — the CDS, the PSD, the CFP, the NAP and now until the end of the year — has again put reservations on the same circular line. As for the Left Block there are days: the Lisbon Chamber says one thing and votes one thing, here in Parliament says another and votes another. As for the PS, it reviewed its position and ended up defeated in that same position.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u149	It didn't come back!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u150	Therefore, you have changed your position. But, on the question of the metropolitan, it is important here to remember an authority that also has reservations, the Baltonary of the Order of Engineers, the Eng.o Mineiro Aires, which, by chance, was even President of the Metropolitan of Lisbon, and which says a very simple thing, which I quote: «The circular line, as a project, is a huge mistake. Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” But after that, we have heard the Minister of Environment and Climate Action and the Minister of Planning say quite different things about European funds, which could or might not be lost. One says one thing one day, the other says another thing the other day. Mr Carlos Pereira, are you in a position to confirm which of the Ministers is right, when one says that European funds are lost and the other says that, after all, they can be allocated to another project?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u151	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u152	Mr President, it was important to clarify this matter and therefore I would like to thank you for clarifying it here in Parliament. Finally, Mr President, I leave a note on the position of the Government itself. The government says — and there is news that this is happening — that the circular line will move forward until the Constitutional Court decides. Sir, is this true? Is this the position of the Socialist Party? Is this the respect that the Socialist Party has for this Parliament? That is the question I put here. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u153	You have the floor, to ask for clarifications, Mrs. Isabel Pires of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u154	Mr President, Mr Carlos Pereira, I thank you for the debate. It is a very important issue, because it has to do with public investment. The positions which the Left Block has taken on this matter are suddenly known. Obviously, public investment should be a very important design, not only because of territorial cohesion but also because of the public services and the necessary advances. We know that we have had a very significant delay in the country during the right-wing government, in particular, and with great strength in public services, and we know of the attacks that have been made on public services. We also know that we are still with very timid advances for existing needs, even because the path of recovery is long. And on this path of recovery we have not only public services but something that you spoke about when you were in the gallery making your political statement, which has to do with mobility and rail. Mr. Deputy, you talked about starting projects. However, it was good to start those who, by their initial forecasts, should already be finishing. You know very well that we have talked a lot about this matter. We have already had the opportunity to hear the President of the Infrastructures of Portugal, we will have the opportunity to hear the Minister of Infrastructure and Housing, but the fact is that the news and the data coming out of the public — in particular the Court of Auditors, but from other entities too — are about a very low execution of the works on the railway. We had 2016 plans that did not happen in 2018; we had new plans and dates in 2019 that are already exceeded by 2020, because there is already a forecast of new delays. The implementation rate is still very low and, in the middle of this, the great concern is how it will move forward at a faster pace to solve mobility problems and finally to implement the 2020 Railway, because this programme is absolutely essential for the people, for the territory and for their cohesion. Finally, I ask you, Mr President, if it would not be better for us to be in a different debate, it would not be the obsession that the Socialist Party has shown for the surplus and the waste of money for public investment, also on rail.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u155	To respond to these two requests for clarification, Mr. Carlos Pereira of the Socialist Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u156	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions. I begin by answering Mr Bruno Dias, whom I did not have the opportunity to answer recently because the question he asked me is quite relevant. In fact, the issue of public investment is, in our view, a matter for all. There must be a commitment from all parties, including all parties, to overcome the serious difficulties that the country has had in implementing public investment. And these are basically related to the public procurement regime, which, in our view, deserves to be reviewed. The great challenge that we all probably have, that the parties have — and the challenge that I challenge the Communist Party of Portugal is precisely that of joining the Socialist Party — is to find a platform that will in fact enable us to ensure that, without losing transparency, without losing scrutiny, it is possible to overcome the problems we have been facing. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. João Gonçalves Pereira, I would say that the problem is not the Constitutional Court. The problem is the interference of the Assembly of the Republic in matters which are not its responsibility and which are of executive power. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The honourable Member is well aware of this, as it seems clear to me. I must also say that the Socialist Party does not change its opinion. I just wanted to know if the CDS has already changed its mind or if you want to continue building 20 metro stations, without economic model, without financial study model,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u157	Don't! Don't!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u158	... without knowing how it pays or does not pay for the investment on the metro in Lisbon.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u159	Don't say nonsense!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u160	That, yes, is that you need to know, that is, if the CDS, this CDS, has already changed your mind or will maintain the same strategy of wanting 20 stations, whatever it costs and paying those who pay, not being worried about it. They advertise the election campaign and then let it go. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u161	Mrs Isabel Pires, I started to write down your questions with some serenity and calmness, but in the middle of the notes I was making - I remember that perhaps the best thing would be to challenge Mrs. Deputy and the Left Block to think about what they really think about public investment and what options they want to do, because, without much deepening the subject, I think - we are facing a fable of the genus Olivia Patroa/Olivia-Courtureira, in which we could say Olivia-Câmara de Lisboa/Olivia-Assembleia, in which one day she votes in favour of something but elsewhere she votes in favour of another. I believe it is important for Mrs Isabel Pires to ask Mrs Isabel Pires of What you think about this is Lisbon City Hall, so that we can be clear about it and then we can talk about it. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u162	We now move on to the political declaration of the Social Democratic Party. To that end, Mr Silvano has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u163	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Last weekend 38. the Congress of the Social Democratic Party, in Viana do Castelo. I would like to welcome the political parties that have been represented at the closing ceremony of this Congress, in particular the CDS-PP, whose President has honored us with his presence. in this Congress was elected a new National PSD Directorate and was approved by a large majority of the party's political strategy for the next two years, whose main aim is to prepare the way for winning the next legislative elections and to make our President, Dr. Rui Rio, the next Prime Minister of Portugal. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u164	Start wrong!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u165	in this course we will bet strongly on the regional elections of the Azores and on the preparation of the municipal elections to be held in October 2021. Our brand is going to be reformism. The PSD has always been, throughout its history, a reformist party. Today society lives in full transformation and demands more changes and adaptations and, with them, profound reforms. For this reason, the Social Democratic Party has adopted a strategy that puts on economic growth based on the production of more value-added marketable goods in order to balance our external accounts and enhance a better standard of living for Portuguese. Only then will we be able to pay better wages and create better jobs. the way the government has been doing, the country will never be able to pay better wages and get our economy to create better jobs. For this to happen, it would be necessary for the government to realize that for better wages, better jobs and more investment are needed. Portugal needs a bet on reducing the tax burden and increasing public investment, because that is the only way we will make the difference between the policy of a government that looks more at the present and the immediate future and a consistent strategy for the development of the country in the medium and long term. Paying more and more taxes to satisfy the continuing desire for growth of current public expenditure is a structural brand of socialist governance, which the Communist Party and the Left Block cherish and encourage. In addition, despite the very strong growth in tax revenue, public investment has been falling into unimagined seedlings. To disregard public investment is to disregard the bet on the future quality of life of people and to renounce the modernization of the State. Portugal needs a commitment to improve the quality of public services, in particular the National Health Service, in contrast with the constant degradation of the quality of services carried out by this Government. Health increases waiting times for consultations and surgeries, increases the debt to suppliers, increases the demobilization due to poor working conditions, lacks human resources and delays the arrival of family doctors to the 700 000 Portuguese who do not have them. If we focus on health, transport, safety and education, we come to the conclusion that the quality of our public services has never been seen before. We also discussed in our Congress the structural matters that the country has to have the capacity to overcome and irrespective of the responsibility of the government, its success depends on our sense of responsibility. I am talking about the demographic problem faced by Portugal, regional asymmetries and social security reform. The demographic problem that Portugal faces with the increase in life expectancy and without its compensation at birth must be given special attention by all policymakers. 50 years ago more than 200 000 children were born each year in Portugal, today little more than 80 000 are born. Also the level of regional asymmetries that the national territory presents is not the same as a developed country; it is, yes, characteristic of a backward country. It is not acceptable, in any way, to concentrate the means in a single territorial area and leave a substantial part of the country to be defined, economic, social and demographic. We must bet on the country's deconcentration and decentralization, as is the case in all democratic and developed countries. It is imperative that we become aware of this reality so that we can act in good time. There are two structural reforms that can only be achieved in dialogue between parties, because they deal with matters of regime: reform of the political system and reform of justice. The political system requires a reform that returns transparency, truth and effectiveness, which ends with the symptoms of the current system's narrowing and discrediting, which approaches the electors, who do not promote populism and demagogy. It is clear that the confidence that the Portuguese put in their judicial system is far from what is necessary and far below what has already been done. There is therefore a need for an extended reform of justice, a reform that responds to the questions of the laziness of decisions, the vagueness of the secret of justice, the opacity of its functioning, but also that does not stop looking at the poor conditions in which many judicial agents are forced to work. To review the political system and make a reform in justice is to strengthen the foundations of the regime; it will not be to allow these very foundations to continue to weaken.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u166	Would you like to end up, please, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u167	Portugal is used both in opposition and in government. The PSD has been and will continue to be available to find points of understanding with other parties and society in general so that the country and the regime can be provided with these important reforms. Always and above all by Portugal! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u168	The Bureau shall record five requests for clarification of the speech of the honourable Member, which shall take place in two rounds: three in the first round and two in the second round. To make the first request for clarification, Mr Porfirio Silva of the Socialist Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u169	Mr. President, Mr. José Silvano, the Socialist Party welcomes the Democratic Social Party for the realization of its 38. Congress. Healthy democracy is that of plurality and diversity and therefore the holding of a democratic congress, in freedom, of a democratic party is, of course, a positive point on this path that we have been following since 25 April 1974. We also greet the elected leaders, especially their re-elected president, Rui Rio, and all the others and we are sure that none will have to resign in the next few days for giving Salazar and PIDE alive. I think we are resting on this. [[PS laughter.]] The PSD came to propose an ideological readjustment speaking of a new idea of social-democracy, saying that social-democracy is neither left nor right. We are curious about this idea of social-democracy, which we would like to see if we understand what they mean, in concrete terms, with this idea of social-democracy which is neither left nor right. And I'll be concrete. In 2015, the former PSD President, Prof. Manuela Ferreira Leite, criticized the PAF program saying that it was not a social-democrat program, which was not a program that satisfied it in social-democrat terms, particularly by using the concept of freedom of choice. And she said that this was not a social-democrat concept. On education, he said, for example, and I will quote: "It is free in the first three years, but at the end of 10 years we have finished, we have stayed with a sector in which the quality of private education is for some and the public will only be with the lower quality part and therefore for those who are less able." We have seen that in recent days the PSD, on the issue of education, has insisted, in particular once again, on this idea of freedom of choice. Is this your conception of social-democracy that is not on the right or on the left and that your former president criticized? Another question which I would also like to ask you in concrete terms — and I conclude by now, Mr President — is this: you are talking about reforms that need to be reformed. Normally, the right when it speaks of reforms refers to privatization, deregulation of the labour market, etc. etc. Could not connect with command "%s": %s. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP João Pinho de Almeida.]] We have another understanding of reforms. For us, reforms are the bet on public transport, the bet on housing, the bet on renewable energy and decarbonization, the bet on school progressively free of charge. These are the real structural reforms. Is this what you understand as structural reforms? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u170	Mr. Deputies, you've finished your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u171	Are they going to follow us in these structural reforms that we are doing? It is that we want to know that social-democracy is that which is neither right nor left. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u172	The second request for clarification relates to the CDS. Mrs. Cecilia Meireles, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u173	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by congratulating Mr José Silvano and leaving here a very special compliment to the whole PSD, greeting him by the Congress, with a particular word for Mr. President of the PSD who is here, and all the new elected leaders, many of whom I can say I am a friend and it is with particular joy that I see his recognized merit. I would also like to reaffirm here what has already been said... [[Rises and protests from PS Member Carlos Pereira.]] Do you want to speak? I do not know if you did not like the speech of your banker, Mr Porfirio Silva, but, if you wish, it is with joy that I will spare you some of my time. [[CDS-PP laughter.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u174	You want to continue, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u175	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would also like to reaffirm what the President of the CDS, who was present at the Congress, has already told him that the PSD is a traditional and preferential ally of the CDS. This is particularly visible not only in what is a political understanding that we have repeatedly reaffirmed, both in many authorities in which we have been governed together, both in the real "government of national salvation" of which we have been part, but also in the creation of an alternative to socialism. And it is about this alternative that I would like to leave a few questions to you. The first has to do with a growth model and with what we all want, which is a better life for Portuguese and better wages for Portuguese. I would like to know whether the PSD agrees that the only real and real way to achieve this better life and these better wages is through economic growth, that is, making the cake grow and then distribute it better. Secondly, and also on this reformist path, I often hear the PS talking about reforms, and still here they did. The most particular reform I have seen in recent years is the so-called "government growth reform". In fact, this is the biggest government ever, with jobs for the whole socialist family, but I would like to know if the PSD will open up for other reforms that I believe will do much better for the country and for the Portuguese. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u176	In order to formulate the third and final request for clarification of this first phase, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor of the PAN. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u177	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I obviously begin by welcoming the Democratic Social Party for its Congress and also for the election that took place. We have heard here about structural reforms. However, in these structural reforms there was no word—and we believe that it would be relevant, at least in this Parliament, on environmental matters and the necessary decarbonisation of the economy. We fully agree with what they have said about the reduction in regional asymmetries. In fact, it is necessary that we do not have a Portugal at two pace and it is also necessary to bet on essential services, such as the National Health Service, which has suffered an investment of successive governments. Therefore, we would like to know whether, in this measure, the PSD is available to dialogue not only with the PS or the CDS but with all political forces, to begin not only by investing in public services but also in fundamental issues such as the decarbonization of the economy and the fulfilment of structural goals for the country, such as the fight against climate change, which has to be the adjustment of the different public policies to this challenge, which is the most present in our day. As far as structural reforms are concerned, we would like to hear the PSD in relation to the justice plan, which has also suffered a disinvestment starting with the State budget for 2020. In the short period of time that has passed in this Parliament, the NAP has already presented some initiatives on this subject and, in relation to one that will soon enter, we would like to know whether the PSD will accompany us. This initiative has to do with the protection of complainants, with the European directive on the protection of complainants itself, and also with the recommendations of the OECD ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ) and the Council of Europe on this matter, with the aim of extending the legal concept of 'declarant' so as to include people who do not have any kind of working relationship with the person or entity responsible for the practice of reported irregularities and crimes, thus ensuring, of course, the anonymity and safety of complainants themselves, in particular through sanctioning mechanisms, so that there are no attempts to retaliate or coerce complainants, for an improvement of the channels of complaint. Still with regard to the issues of transparency and the fight against corruption of the political system, it is pleased...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u178	Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, I will ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u179	I very much conclude, Mr President. I'm sorry. I said that I am pleased to hear the PSD say that reforms are necessary, but we need to go further. We would like to know what the PSD is available to present in this context. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u180	You have the floor to answer these three requests for clarification, Mr José Silvano.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u181	Mr President, I thank the honourable Members for their questions. Mr Porfirio Silva, I begin by telling you that you have almost answered your question. If the PSD isn't on the left or on the right, it's just a mistake to say it's on the center.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u182	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u183	But what does that mean?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u184	You have missed this part to say that the PSD is at the centre of the political space and is truly social-democrat. It is not socialist, it will not be communist, it will not be right or extreme right, but it is from the whole space of the center and it is mainly of the Portuguese who choose the center. This is the concrete answer to your question. [[PSD applause.]] And you have no doubt that in a short time, the Portuguese who choose the centre and who have voted in the Socialist Party will easily vote in the PSD, next. You can be absolutely sure of that!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u185	That's what's gonna happen!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u186	The public and private issues were about education, but I was even waiting for it to be about public-private health partnerships.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u187	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u188	Perhaps it felt uncomfortable to talk about this area, but philosophy is the same. We are always advocates of the public above all—make it clear! — in fact, as the President of the Party has said several times. But, attention, where the public does not respond should answer the private, if it does better and cheaper. You can be absolutely sure of that!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u189	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u190	Both in education and in health or in any other area, what the Portuguese want is to be served, and well served. The public has that obligation. If you fail and the private can, even better and cheaper, follow the private one. The State must monitor whether the private party meets the conditions laid down for it. This is the priority of the PSD, both on one side and on the other, both in education and in health. Mrs Cecilia Meireles, I also thank you for your words. As for the alternative to socialism, I think we are perfectly in agreement and available. The train started running after Congress and I think it will continue.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u191	Mr President, I would like to ask you to finish, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u192	It's 3 minutes for the answer, it's not 2!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u193	Mr President, let me just reply to my colleague on the side of the NAP,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u194	I'm sorry, sir, I was wrong. You've got 3 minutes, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u195	... telling him that one of the essential concerns we referred to had to do with the environment and climate change and that we will do everything in relation to what has been one of our flags. In fact, I think that no one should teach the PSD on this subject because, 20 years ago, those who started talking about these issues were PSD leaders, who were at that time in the front of the environment and climate change. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u196	Mr. José Silvano, I apologize to you. I did an interruption that I shouldn't have done, because I was convinced that the honourable Member was 2 minutes old and, after all, had 3 minutes. I'm sorry about that. I hope I didn't harm your answer. In any event, in the next round you will certainly have the opportunity to complete, if necessary. I'm sorry, again. You have the floor, to ask for clarifications, Mr João Oliveira, from the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u197	Mr President, Mr José Silvano, I congratulate you, you and your party, on the conduct of the Congress, but it will not hurt to make simultaneously vows so that you do not achieve your goal of returning to power,... [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u198	We know!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u199	...because, of course, that would be the return of the tragedy that we live between 2011 and 2015. Therefore, Mr. José Silvano, the greetings and assessments are made as to the objectives that have emerged from the PSD Congress. Nevertheless, Mr José Silvano, I would like to ask you some questions about some aspects that I think are relevant to the Congress they have made and the appreciation they have made of the PSD position in relation not only to the past but also to the future objectives. I would like to tell you, Mr. José Silvano, that of course we have noted that there has not been a word of self-criticism on the part of the PSD in this Congress for what they did to the country and to the Portuguese during the four years they were in the government, between 2011 and 2015. [[PSD protests.]] I would like to know, Mr. José Silvano, if it is today that we will have the opportunity to register. The PSD, which today is called a central party and with social concerns, is seen in those four years of governance of the PSD and the CDS, between 2011 and 2015? Is it in the court of rights, in the policy of exploitation and impoverishment that they have led forward? in the last four years, they have not said a single word about the rupture with the options of the right-wing policy that they have taken forward. Does the PSD today take a position contrary to that which it has put into practice in those four years in which it has been in government and today assumes a perspective of failure with the options of right-wing policy? If you complain about the center, the least you could expect was that. After what we have heard about PPPs and about defending the PPPs business — which, of course, Mr. José Silvano, harm users, because in PPP hospitals they only have half of the service instead of what they would be entitled to — I must say that it does not seem to us to be a good way.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u200	People are treated faster and better!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u201	Finally, Mr Silvano, I would like to leave you a note of concern. We have heard your appeals to the Socialist Party for understanding of electoral laws, justice and labour law.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u202	Mr. Deputy, you want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u203	I conclude, Mr. President. We realize that there can't be a good thing going on, judging by the understandings they have made in the past. Starting with the pact for justice that they signed with the then Prime Minister José Socrates and with the understandings about the latest changes made to labour law, there cannot be anything good there.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u204	Mr. Deputy, you want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u205	I would like you to take this opportunity now to explain in particular what is the possibility that you will try to solve the problems of the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u206	Mr. Deputy, you want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u207	... when they make these calls for understanding to the Socialist Party in these three matters, something that we have never seen before with the PS. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u208	To make the last request for clarification to Mr José Silvano, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares of the Left Block has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u209	Mr President, Mr. José Silvano, of course, we note the existence of the PSD Congress without much suspension. In fact, as they themselves acknowledged, there was no leadership in dispute in this Congress. However, in order to reach power, there is a list of reforms that deserve some attention. It is curious to see that the harder it is for the PSD to get votes in polls, the more the temptation to review the political system to win in the secretary what can't win in the polls. Therefore, the first question I have to ask you is whether this opening of the PSD to make agreements with the PS is, in practice, an attempt to revise the electoral system so that the centre will continue to win the votes that the people do not want to give it; or, otherwise, an attempt to, in the secretariat, make the PSD governance disaster in the country forgotten. If that's it, we get it. We understand the political game, but what is missing is strategy for the country. I wanted to ask you a second question. I realize that, in practice, these arrangements for the secretarial game begin to occur. Still this morning, PS, PSD and even PCP joined to make the House of Democracy in the House of bureaucracy, with regard to the presentation of votes. Another example of how to deny politics in this context. Mr President, the question I have to ask you directly is this: in the lack of popular support, they want a reform of the electoral system and they also want to promise support to the economic groups for, or in health or education, where weaknesses arise in the social state, to look for more business to deliver to the private and then to win the support that people, in particular those who live from work in our country, have denied the PSD? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u210	You have the floor to answer, Mr. José Silvano.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u211	Mr President, starting with Mr Oliveira of the CFP, I would like to say - with all clarity - that we want to return to the power to win legislative elections - that can be absolutely certain! — and not in any way sentencing. [[PSD applause.]] As for self-criticism, this speech gave in the early years of the previous government, which you supported in 2016, 2017, 2018 and 2019. Now, after the end of a government that has lasted for four years — which, of course, has something to show and to be able to criticize — they are still going to seek a government that has already completed its mandate five years ago, it is clear that they are still linked to this policy, to this government and, with that, of course, they do not want our policy or our government. You can be absolutely sure of that! [[PSD applause.]] With regard to Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, I wanted to say that dramatization or suspension are not with us. Dramatizations are with someone much more specialist than us, who, whenever there is a contradiction, makes an act of suspension, a dramatization. It is not with the PSD, it is more for the government and those who support it in the questions of teachers or VAT. Therefore, the suspension is not with us, of course absolute. We, as it is commonly said, are « chorus boys », compared with the current Prime Minister and the government, to make suspension and dramatization. So in that part we understand. On the question of changing the political system as an essential reform of the regime, the aim is not to gain in the secretariat. Not at all! Even because, as we said in the rostrum, we want an understanding of everyone. It is not only the PS or the CDS, it is everyone who wants to engage in a better relationship between electors and electors, so that those who choose either the Members or the other sovereignty bodies feel perfect identification and confidence in those who choose because the proximity relationship between the elector and the elector must be the focal point of any proposal that informs the revision of the political system itself. We all agree, including the honourable Member, that this regime must be improved, because we all know—just read the opinion studies—that much of the population is no longer identified with this political system and how it works. It would be, for us, an act of silence not to perceive the times, not to perceive the voters, not to understand the country and not to do anything for the voters to better identify themselves with the electors, the Assembly of the Republic or any other body. It is this review of the political system that we are talking about. We have no document that imposes it, but we have the will, and I think we all have the duty to change what is wrong and bring the voters closer together. I'm absolutely sure of that! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u212	Mr José Silvano, once again, I apologize to you for my lateness recently. We turn to the political declaration of the Left Block, which will be made by Mrs Sandra Cunha. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u213	Good afternoon, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. It was 13 years ago that the 'yes' to the voluntary interruption of pregnancy won the referendum, with more than 59 % of the votes. [[Congratulations from BE, Member of Parliament not inscribed Joacine Katar Moreira and PS Members.]] From that day on, the dark times of social and judicial persecution for women ended, in which conservative beliefs were more important than the life of so many women. Enforced interrogations and gynecological examinations, criminal proceedings, convictions were ended because the right to women's self-determination was not accepted, the right to choose their own body. The times of clandestine abortions, carried out in stairwell clinics, ended. The times of death for unsafe abortions were ended in the most precarious and often unhealthy situations. And unlike those who predicted the disaster — they would be endless lines of women waiting for abortion, women would no longer have children, abortion would be turned into a contraceptive method, as if women were without reason and conscience — unlike all that, the law was a success.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u214	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u215	unlike those who, like the leader of the CDS at the time, announced the « crazy free abortion» or who, like Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa, had the spectrum of « total liberalisation» to prefer the hypocrisy of « is forbidden, but can be done», what we have today is a constant and significant decrease in the number of abortions. Between 2011 and 2018, pregnancy interruptions for all reasons decreased by 24, 2 % and those performed only by women up to 10 weeks decreased by 27, 1 %. More: the available data published by European institutions indicate that the number of abortions per 1000 live births in Portugal has been below the European average since at least 2015. contrary to what were announced by the aristocrats of the apocalypse, not only did nothing worsen, as what we have today is more information, more follow-up, more health and more security. We have more family planning and we have an increase in the use of long-term contraceptive methods, which runs counter to the idea propagated by 'no' in the referendum that women would then resort to multiple abortions.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u216	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u217	More than 92 % of women who have voluntarily discontinued pregnancy use long-term contraception. But it is also crucial to remember that by 2008 clandestine abortion was the third largest cause of women's death in Portugal and that since 2012 there has been no more women in Portugal to die victims of clandestine abortion. [[Congratulations from BE and PS MPs.]] And they also ended the persecutions of health professionals. In the bay of the obscurantism of our past, prejudices, authoritarianism remain, the sovereignty with which the finger was pointed, with which women were persecuted and humiliated. This will also be the fate of the opinions of those who have done everything to prevent him from going to a more democratic society that respects rights, freer and healthier.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u218	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u219	But the work is not all done, because, in addition to the acquisition of rights, it is important to guarantee the conditions for their effectiveness and therefore it is important to ensure that the National Health Service (NSS) has all the conditions necessary to perform the requested IVG (voluntary termination of pregnancy) and to make the necessary follow-up. In the hospital of Santarém, they stopped performing IVG ; in Beja, the service is intermittent ; the Hospital Garcia de Orta sends the surgical abortions to the Clinic of the Arcs ; in Lisbon, three hospitals are objectors. This is a reality which calls into question equity in access to IVG and reduces women's rights. Training and investment in the National Health Service are essential to ensure equal access and quality health services. The question of IVG has always been a division between progressive and conservative conceptions, concepts that relate to the role of women and women's rights, in particular, but that also contain conceptions on society and individual rights, in general. The Left Block has always taken on a progressive and very clear position on this matter: we are committed to campaigns, information, awareness raising, political proposal. In 2004, we started the process that culminated on 11 February 2007, worked to promote progressive alliances with civil parties and movements, and aposted to the diversity of the « Yes » field. Today, by Liseta Moreira and by all the women persecuted and accused, by the accused and accused of the mega-judgments of Maia, of Aveiro, of Lisbon and of Setúbal, by the doctors, technicians and nurses condemned throughout all these and other processes, by all the women to whom the finger has been pointed out, by all the humiliated and ostracized, by all those who have been sequels to life, by all those who have not resisted and died, throughout the journey of suffering, violence and humiliation, but also of struggle and solidarity, the Left Block cannot fail to remember and point out that this was a decisive battle, towards modernity, development, respect for free choice, the right to self-determination.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u220	You want to do the right thing to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u221	I will now finish, Mr President. A battle whose victory finally brought Portugal to the whole of countries in which respect for women's freedom of choice and self-determination is even to fulfill. And, after 13 years, we presented the bill of false and preconceived arguments,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u222	Mrs. Deputy, you want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u223	...pronounced against women by whom they want to impose their life options on others. Today, we are sure: this propaganda...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u224	Thank you very much. Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u225	I'm really going to finish, Mr. President. As I was saying, this conservative propaganda has lost in the past and will lose in the present, because there is a majority in the country to build a future with tolerance and respect for the rights of all and all. [[Congratulations from BE and PS.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u226	Members Isabel Alves Moreira of the PS and Alma Rivera of the PCP signed for clarification. Would you like to reply together or separately?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u227	I am replying together, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u228	For clarifications, Mrs. Isabel Alves Moreira of the Socialist Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u229	Mr President, Mrs Sandra Cunha, thank you very much for your speech on IVG, 13 years after the referendum. Let me remind young Mr Sérgio Sousa Pinto, who, only 23 years old in 1998, played the role of the PS bill, which allowed abortion by the woman's will until 10 weeks. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is fair to recall the struggle of the Socialist Youth of then, of people who believed that it was necessary to end the infamous criminal persecution of poverty. next to Sérgio Sousa Pinto, was also Ana Catarina Mendes, among other faces that never gave up. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Until in 2007, by impulse of the Socialist Party, in a new referendum, finally, on 25 April, as was the dream of Natalia Correia, to the choice of women, placed before the agonizing situation of « criminals » and « sinners ». Against all we were told, abortion did not increase, women did not use IVG as a « contraceptive method », family planning consultations were not an empty promise and women did not continue to die. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u230	Abortion decreases from year to year, family planning consultations fired, the IVG repeat rate is one of the lowest in Europe, ended with the second cause of maternal death in Portugal : clandestine abortion. [[Congratulations from BE.]] We stopped dying. The law stopped killing us. The law has stopped confronting us with humiliating judgments, such as those of Maia or Aveiro, here already mentioned. We're still paying attention. On the last day of the penultimate legislature, the PSD and the CDS approved an initiative that repealed women's freedom and again handed down death sentences.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u231	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u232	Shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u233	We don't forget and the times aren't for forgetfulness. We stand firm, just as we are right, the Left Block and all the left, next to a progressive law that allows us to say today that the number of abortions in Portugal is the lowest since legalization. And 13 years later, we're alive and we're free. The law has stopped killing us! [[P.S. and BE's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u234	To request clarification, you now have the floor of Mrs Alma Rivera of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u235	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, 13 years ago, Portugal decriminalized the voluntary interruption of pregnancy until 10 weeks and Portuguese women were no longer pushed for illegal abortion. It took decades of struggle, it wasn't easy. There were judgments, in which women suffered the humiliation of seeing themselves in the bank of the defendants and seeing their privacy and dignity violated. Physical and psychological sequelae existed for life. There have been thousands of deaths of women who have smuggled underground under terrible conditions. But there was also a movement with the women in front, who did not give up until IVG was decriminalized and guaranteed the option to be able to stop pregnancy safely in the National Health Service.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u236	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u237	After 13 years, reality came to disassemble the arguments against him. “It will increase the number of abortions,” they said. On the contrary, the number has fallen, being constantly decreasing, to a value below the European average. «This law will make abortion a contraceptive method», they said. In addition to the insensitivity that this statement reveals about the difficult decision in question, the numbers show precisely the opposite. In fact, it has increased the search for family planning consultations and contraceptive advice.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u238	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u239	More has been achieved: since 2011 — the most important of all — there have been no cases of death or hospitalization linked to IVG. It was a great advance for women. But if there's anything we know, there's no right guaranteed forever. Again recently, we saw the PSD and CDS attempt to introduce difficulties, obstacles, costs, in access to IVG. They've been defeated. But there is still much to do to ensure that the National Health Service is able to ensure throughout the country respect for the decision of the woman and real access and in conditions to safe and accompanied abortion. from the PCP side, we will continue to fight for the dignity of motherhood and responsible paternity and exercised in freedom,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u240	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u241	... to strengthen sexual and reproductive rights, access to family planning, the guarantee of sexual education in all schools, but also living conditions at work, in public services, so that women and families have the children they wish. The question I am asking is whether BE will follow us in this direction.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u242	You have the floor to answer, Mrs. Sandra Cunha.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u243	Mr President, Mrs Isabel Moreira and Mrs Alma Rivera, indeed, this was only a possible way of establishing broad alliances between various parties, between civic movements, between activists, between women and men, among all those who understood the importance of free choice, but above all who understood and who fought to end this horror that were the deaths of women for clandestine abortions, as well as the public and judicial persecution of women and the various health professionals. I spoke recently about the need to ensure access to the right to abortion within the National Health Service, and how this implies investment in SNS — investment in human resources, investment in proximity health services, investment in training, too. For this we hope to have the support of the parties on the left, who were in this fight during the campaign of the abortion referendum and throughout this period. It is also, of course, important to maintain the surveillance over the attacks and the setbacks that have been attempted, as it has been recalled here by Mrs Isabel Moreira, who has been on the right, the PSD bench and also during the PSD government, the retrocessions of acquired rights, of acquired rights, indeed, and which are so important. [[PSD protests.]] Therefore, the Left Block obviously accompanies all efforts in this surveillance and all proposals with regard to investment in the National Health Service for access to abortion in equal and quality conditions, for follow-up services, as well as all opinions, all ideas, all initiatives that come to that end. [[Congratulations from BE and PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u244	The last political statement lies with Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u245	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We were not surprised, but we were not surprised to learn that there are hospitals that are unable to purchase medicines because of the Law of Commitments and Late Payments ( LCPA ). In recent weeks, the Court of Auditors has refused the prior visa for the purchase of medicines essential for the treatment of cancer, HIV/AIDS, rheumatoid arthritis or rare Fabry disease. The argument is the same in all Court judgments: the lack of funds available for new commitments under this law. Since 2017, the Court of Auditors has refused the previous visa to some 40 contracts, submitted by hospitals, for the purchase of medicines, food, clothing treatment, various services and even for the conduct of investments, creating constraints on the functioning of hospitals. Even more serious: these visa refusals may even compromise patients' access to the right health care, which is unthinkable in the democratic regime of our country. When imposing the Law of Commitments and Late Payments, by PSD and CDS, we warned from the outset that this was not compatible with the functioning and mission of health establishments that integrate the SNS. It will not be by chance that one of the sectors of the Public Administration where there is greater non-compliance is exactly that of health. In fact, it is not possible to comply with the parts of that law and to ensure the health care to which the patients are entitled, as has already been stated by the Portuguese Association of Hospital Administrators. It is necessary to provide the National Health Service with adequate funding to ensure the constitutional right to health, but it is also necessary to remove existing obstacles, such as the Law of Commitments and Late Payments, to enable the functioning of public health services and to ensure that no patient is deprived of health care or therapy because of a law with criteria that absolutely ignore these needs and rights. in a judgment of the Court of Auditors, a hospital unit claimed that, and I quote, « The possible impossibility of acquiring medicinal products, because of this budgetary and financial rule, would constitute a serious violation of the principle of proportionality and the constitutionally enshrined right to health. Do not keep on seeking. ” to which the Court of Auditors responds that, and I quote, « without calling into question the supreme public interest invoked in constitutional order, such as ‘the right to health’, which, in the specific case, relates to the obligation to comply with legal standards of a strictly financial nature provided for in the CPAA, the truth is that such law is imposed individually on public services and bodies — including those of the SNS — without, even distinctly, assessing the nature of the expenditure in question on the basis of its pre-eminence or importance in order to ensure such right. First, on the contrary, that law is presented as a prevailing law over the others, resulting from its article 13. what the rules of that law have imperative nature, ‘ prevailing over any other legal or conventional, special or exceptional, provisions otherwise available. ’ Do not keep on seeking. ” It adds that, and I quote, '(...) this Court is thus limited to fulfilling and enforcing the law(...) which, as it has already pointed out, does not distinguish SNS entities from other public entities and bodies subject to it, nor does it exempt certain types of acquisitions from others, namely those related to the purchase of meals, medicines or medical devices. Do not keep on seeking. ” What is concluded here is that, between ensuring the right to health and meeting strictly financial criteria, what prevails is not the health of users, regardless of the consequences that ensue for their health. It's inhuman! The Court of Auditors also recognises that there is a genuine systemic problem of the lack of urgent resolution by the legislator. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The removal of this obstacle in the provision of care is urgent. The amendment adopted in the State Budget for 2020 relieves, but does not solve the problem; it is necessary to create an exceptional regime for SNS ( National Health Service ) in order to safeguard what is most relevant: the health and life of users. in this sense, the PCP scheduled for March 6 the discussion of the bill except for the application of the Law of Commitments and Payments in Delay the acquisition of medicines, chemicals and pharmaceuticals, clinical material and medical devices, investments financed by Community funds and investments with budgetary cabimentation in health units that integrate the SNS. It has already been possible to exempt the application of this law to the authorities. It is also possible, there is political will and courage, except the acquisition of essential goods and the realization of fundamental investments in the National Health Service. There is consensus among administrators, health professionals and various entities that this law does not serve and should not apply to health. We are presenting the proposal once again for the immediate resolution of this problem. The question is whether the other parties will choose to protect the health of patients or, once again, whether they will be economic and financial conditionalisms to dictate and prevail over the right to health. for our part, we have no doubt: we are on the side of the right to health! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u246	The Bureau registered five Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen for clarification. How does the honourable Member intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u247	Mr President, I shall reply together to the first two Members. Members and then the remaining three.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u248	Of course, Mrs. Deputy. Mr Moisés Ferreira has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u249	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Paula Santos, indeed, there are hospitals in Portugal which are unable to purchase medicines for various diseases, including rare diseases, and that is not acceptable. Hospitals are prevented from acquiring medicines and therapies for cancer patients, and this is not acceptable. Since 2017, there have been at least 35 previous refusals by the Court of Auditors that have prevented the purchase of medicines, the purchase of food for hospitals, the acquisition of dialysis and radiology services, and that, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it's not acceptable. If it is not acceptable, why is this happening in Portugal? Because of a small big thing called "the Law of Commitments", which is a law that is driving the National Health Service, which is preventing investment, which is secondary to the right to health and which is depriving users of health care. The Law of Commitments, which was made by the PSD and the CDS-PP, at its first moment, had the opposition of the Socialist Party, but now the Socialist Party has come to defend it. However, it is a law that must, of course, be deduced and must be removed from the path of the National Health Service. The Left Block has insisted on this — in fact, in the past legislature, we presented a bill, which had the votes against the PSD, the PS and the abstention of the CDS-PP, and in the State budget for 2020 we again presented these same initiatives, but the negative coalition has now extended to the CDS, the Liberal Initiative and the Arrival, which abstained. The truth is that it is not possible to develop the SNS with this Law of Commitments. The fundamental question is: is it possible to have an SNS developed with this Law of Commitments? Is it possible to have autonomy of the institutions of the SNS, as many seem to claim, with this Law of Commitments? It does not seem to us and, therefore, we will again hand over a bill to remove the SNS from this notorious Compromise Law. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u250	Mr Alvaro Almeida, from the PSD, has the floor to request clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u251	Mr President, Mrs Paula Santos, I congratulate you on bringing here a subject which I consider really important. It is, in fact, unacceptable that there are hospitals in the National Health Service that do not acquire the medicines their patients need. However, although we agree with the topic, we disagree with the diagnosis. It is that the problem is not in the Compromise Law, this law has existed for many years and only since 2017 have hospitals stopped buying medicines because of the law.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u252	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u253	The problem is in the lack of funds available. The reason why the Court of Auditors rejects the previous visa is precisely that: lack of funds available. And where does responsibility come from for the lack of funds available? It comes from the budgets that the Socialist Party has submitted and that the PCP and the Left Block have approved since 2016. [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] This lack of funding results in the lack of access to health care by patients from some of the Portuguese hospitals. It's not because of the Law of Commitments. This law simply applies rules of good management, so it is not that law that results in the problem. You tell the honourable Member that what concerns her is the patients. We also agree, but it is not ending with rules of sound financial management that protect patients. Do you know how the patients are protected, Mrs. Member? They protect themselves by presenting proposals for reducing waiting lists for specialist consultations, as the PSD and PCP voted against. They protect themselves, giving them family doctors to all, as the PSD proposed and the PCP voted against. Therefore, when it comes to defending the interests of the users, Mrs Deputy, the PCP becomes more concerned with waiting lists, with family doctors and less with ideology and then, yes, we will agree and we will be defending the interests of the patients. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u254	To answer the first two Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u255	Mr President, I begin by thanking the questions addressed to me by Mr. Moisés Ferreira, of the Left Block, and Mr. Álvaro Almeida, of the PSD. Mr Álvaro Almeida states that it is unacceptable for hospitals to be prevented from buying medicines and we also consider it, but Mr, your party and the CDS have all responsibility for what is happening.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u256	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u257	That never existed in our time!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u258	There is a fundamental aspect here: the criteria that should define the functioning and mission of hospitals, more than criteria of an economic and financial nature, should be clinical criteria,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u259	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u260	... they should be advantageous criteria for patients, from the point of view of their health, and not criteria that prevent hospitals from acquiring the basic medicines so that users can treat themselves, so that users, in certain situations, can even survive, hospitals that are now with their hands and feet tied because they are not allowed to acquire them.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u261	The problem is in the budgets that you have approved!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u262	But I will tell you more, Mr. Member : in 2013 — and the law is 2012 — there were 11 hospital units that did not comply with the Law of the Compromises; in 2014 there were 18 ; in 2015, there were 42 ; in 2016 there were 49 ; in 2017, there were 10 ; in 2018 there were 52 ; and in 2019 there were 28. We are in fact faced with a problem which, as the Court of Auditors points out, is systemic and requires resolution, because this law should not in fact apply to the National Health Service.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u263	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u264	In fact, it is seen the consequence of its application by challenging the right and access to health by users. But we can also talk about underfinancing. It is that, if there was government that cut the most in funding the National Health Service, the PSD Government and the CDS-PP was the champion,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u265	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u266	... with brute cuts that prevented the operation of the SNS. [[PSD protests.]] Mr President, it is a fact that the problem is not solved, and that is why we are asking the question of the need for funding to be adequate, to hire more workers, a multi-annual investment in family doctors, family nurses, proposals that PCP brought here, including in the State Budget, that your party did not follow up either but could solve many of the problems the SNS is facing, including the application of the Commitments Act and late payments to the National Health Service.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u267	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u268	Mr. Moisés Ferreira, we are accompanying all the concerns that I have had the opportunity to mention in the intervention I have made and I want to tell you that, in fact, the Law of Commitments applied to the National Health Service is a clear obstacle to guaranteeing the right to health of users. Therefore, we wanted to schedule for March 6 the discussion of our initiative and we will see which parties are defending the National Health Service and that they want to ensure that no patient, no user is prevented from accessing health care because of a law that does not have a single clinical criteria. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u269	Mr André Ventura has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u270	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members sometimes give the idea that the PCP — and we knew it had stopped a little in history — is only remembered until the end of the PSD/CDS-PP government. From that point on, he forgot everything that had happened. Madam Member, it is clear to anyone that the right to health is a constitutionally guaranteed right and, above all, a right that no one wants to preclude. But do you know where there have been no views of the Court of Auditors and no control over the management of hospitals? It is in Venezuela, it is in Cuba... There is no control there. But do you know why there is no control? Because there's no money! There's no control there, because there's no money! So, there's been none, because there's nothing to spend too! It is very easy to say that there must be no control, when there is no money to spend and when the money to spend is always from the others. I would also like to say the following: if you think that you should simply end public control by the Court of Auditors on the management of hospitals and other entities, explain this to small and medium-sized enterprises and to those who provide the national health system, which has a debt of millions of euros. It is very difficult to explain that from now on there will be no control, nor will we have anything at all.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u271	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u272	I shall conclude, Mr President, by saying only this: it is very curious that the CFP will criticise the visa and control of health management and at the same time endorses — what has happened in the last five years — the budgets of the Socialist Party. That's what's very curious. [[Protests by PCP Member Antonio Filipe.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u273	The "ranjinha" does not come out of it!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u274	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Bebiana Cunha of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u275	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Paula Santos, first of all, we would like to tell you that we fully share the concern brought here with regard to the impossibility of hospitals responding to their needs. We agree with you that it is inhuman, it is urgent, it is unacceptable for hospitals to be prevented from responding to their own needs. We all know that it is essential to invest and strengthen the National Health Service, to value professionals, that there is autonomy to perform the works necessary for the proper functioning of the services, that they install the necessary materials and technology. Finally, it is necessary to put a medium- and long-term vision to health policies, because we all know the very high risks that health professionals face every day, we know that health services cannot be maintained with minimum services and that many Portuguese and many Portuguese continue without real access to health, with times of waiting completely incomprehensible. We take this time to ask you what the CFP thinks about: a number of national and international alerts have been made to the importance of giving more priority to prevention than to remedy. We know that we have much to remedy, but if we really want to prevent a fall from the National Health Service in the abyss, it is essential a structured intervention that favours preventive health and proximity. in this sense, the NAP has repeatedly been stressing the need to quantify what is invested in health prevention. That is to say, the accounts must be presented to know not only what is spent on this subject in Portugal, but also the impact that prevention has on the health of people in our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u276	Mrs. Deputy, I'm going to ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u277	I shall conclude, Mr President. Health prevention exists, but has been based on vaccination measures, information campaigns and awareness-raising as well as on various projects. We understand that there has been a lack of an integrated strategy and, in this sense, we would like to question the CFP about this need. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u278	Mr. Paulo Marques of the Socialist Party has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u279	Mr President, first of all, I would like to leave a word of serenity. There are no users of the National Health Service who are without medicines because of the Court of Auditors' visas. [[P.S.'s applause.]] If they read the Court of Auditors reports and read what the President of the Portuguese Hospital Administrators Association said, referring critically to this situation, they saw that in this same « cut» he also said that, in limited situations, they made a direct adjustment to purchase these medicines. So it's not worth alarming the Portuguese about that. I would also like to say to the Member of the Left Block, who spoke recently in the amendments that we have proposed, that I am curious that the Block has not approved Article 175. the proposal for a State Budget Act, which would provide the hospitals with funds available in a wider way. I am sorry that I did not vote in favour of this measure, since I would ease the difficulties experienced by hospital administrators. The fruit of this, I just wanted to say that if there is a matter that deserves consensus in Portuguese society is that of the capital importance of the National Health Service. Well, we know that historically it wasn't always like that, but today all parties are aligned in the same sense, so I hope. In 2015, as a result of the parliamentary majority, the Socialist Party formed Government and the then appointed Prime Minister was António Costa and today, in 2020, the Prime Minister is the same and in the last election campaign was established with the Portuguese to strengthen the National Health Service. It is accepted by all of us that the National Health Service needs more resources, whether technical, human or financial, but it is no less true that we approved a Budget half a dozen days ago which provided this Service with very substantial funds—never, until today, had had such an important initial allocation—and this well proves the commitment we made to the Portuguese. We are doing so, even if we are in the first year of the Legislative Session. Therefore, I wanted to ask the PCP Member whether the initiatives taken in the previous legislation and which we continue to take in the current legislation make, or not, the National Health Service more capable and more robust to respond to the purposes for which it was created. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u280	In reply, Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u281	Mr President, I am grateful for the questions that have been put to me and start with one that is outside the subject that we have brought to discuss in the Assembly of the Republic, the question of prevention and its need. These are subjects that the CFP has been discussing for a long time, even as a matter of health promotion and disease prevention. In addition, it is important to note that there will be an extension of the National Vaccination Plan in 2020, because a proposal from the CFP was adopted in the Assembly of the Republic...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u282	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u283	... for the inclusion of three more vaccines.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u284	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u285	It cost, but finally, the government went forward with the realisation of what was contained in the State budget. Therefore, with regard to prevention, we believe that it is essential. We are here—and it was, of course, with the intent that the CFP brought this issue to debate—to discuss the problems affecting Portuguese people, to discuss the problems of the National Health Service, and not to discuss problems in other countries. However, we note that there are a number of countries, particularly Cuba, which has helped our,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u286	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u287	Oh! Open... [[Protests from the CDS-PP Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u288	... in particular with the placement of family doctors,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u289	Exactly! [[CH Member's Protests André Ventura.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u290	... what for many and many Portuguese has been the solution for them to be assigned as a family doctor, given the lack in our country regarding these matters.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u291	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u292	What is fundamental to the National Health Service, so that it gives the Portuguese the answer they have right to, fulfilling our Constitution, is to provide it with the means that are necessary. As for the issues that arise here, it is not through eloquent speeches or great proclamations that problems are solved. Specific measures are needed and what we see is that, by the Government of the Socialist Party, they have not been sufficient to respond to the problems. It is true that, as I said, the PSD and the CDS left the SNS in a bad situation, but what needed to do and was not done was indeed an investment that provided the public services of the necessary services and valences, which strengthened the workers more effectively, so that there was a family doctor, a family nurse, so that there would be an appreciation of the workers and they would stay in the National Health Service and would not leave it because they felt demotivated. This is fundamental, because it may call into question not only the provision of care but also the training of the next professionals in the National Health Service.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u293	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u294	This is something that we consider to be absolutely strategic. Regarding the problem of medicines in hospitals, I wanted to say that we already realize that in the PSD they are not concerned about health, they are more concerned about the accounts. [[PSD laughter.]] But the truth is that there is a specific problem that requires an answer, and this answer has to go through the exception of a set of contracts for the purchase of medicines, chemicals and pharmaceuticals, of various services that are essential for hospitals to fulfill their mission. And your job is to care for people.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u295	There's money!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u296	Mrs. Deputy, please finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u297	Its mission is to treat people, conveniently, in time and time, with quality, and not to let them deal with them.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u298	Mrs. Deputy, you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u299	I'm really going to finish, Mr. President. We bring the proposal that solves the problem. It is clear that the concern of those who oppose this proposal is not with patients or with health, but with a set of other criteria that are of little importance to the Portuguese. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u300	We are thus finishing the first item on the agenda. We move on to the second point, which consists in the assessment of Petition No 216 / XIII / 2. a ( Union of Unions of the Viseu District ) — They call for measures to combat desertification within the country, together with, in general, the Bill No. 24 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Determines the preparation by the Government of the annual report on regional asymmetries in Portugal, prior to the presentation of the State budget, with a view to its presentation to the Assembly of the Republic, and with draft resolutions Nos 211/IV/1. a ( BE ) — Invest in territorial cohesion and combat desertification within the country, 218 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Digital Platform in Geographic Information System(SIG) and 237 / XIV / 1. a ( CFP ) — Recommends that the Government carry out a development plan for the national territory with measures to enhance the interior and to combat the abandonment of the rural world. To present the Greens legislative initiative, Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u301	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Regional asymmetries are a structural problem in Portugal which, despite the declared intents to combat, has been aggravated over the years. Indeed, territorial inequalities in a country as small as Portugal, which distance them — yes! — the inland coast, the urban areas of rural areas, were fostered by decades of investment policies within the territory. The Greens take advantage to greet the thousands of citizens who have subscribed to the petition promoted by the Union of Unions of the Viseu District, which aims to defend the interior of the country and combat desertification, and accompany their concerns. It was precisely for the purpose of contributing to the fight against desertification of the interior and for the need to defeat the regional asymmetries that The Greens presented a bill that, we believe, meets the concerns expressed in this petition, a project that determines the preparation by the Government of an annual report on regional asymmetries in Portugal. The de-investment in the country closed schools, health units, GNR posts, CTT stations, financial distributions, railway lines and bridges. It has contributed directly to the loss of development potentials of that territory and, of course, deprived of services, these areas generate less capacity to attract people and businesses, thus forming a vicious cycle of emptying and depopulation of the interior. If there are fewer people, services are closed and if there is no services, no population or economic activity is set. As we know, the State budgets translate, by definition, the guidelines and policy options for investment to take place in a given calendar year, and the Greens therefore consider it essential that, during the debate on the State budget and its proposed amendments, the Assembly of the Republic has an effective knowledge of the situation and developments of the country in terms of territorial inequalities. In our view, this knowledge of the reality and needs of the territory is essential for adequate investment options to continue the proposed national plans. We can even create plans, programmes, strategies and laws for spatial planning and cohesion, but if there is no adequate funding and investment and appropriate incentives to promote the objective of combating regional asymmetries, the fact is that reality will not change, the waste of development potential will remain on a very significant part of our territory and the situation will continue to worsen over time. That is why the Greens consider it urgent and imperative that the State contribute to creating conditions for fixing populations, not the other way around. For this, there is a need for information on the needs of the territory, and that is exactly what is intended with the legislative initiative that the Greens join in the discussion of this important petition.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u302	The next intervention, to present the two initiatives of the Left Block Parliamentary Group associated with this petition, is Mr José Maria Cardoso. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u303	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to greet the proposers and signatories of this petition. All that is said about regional and territorial asymmetries in our country is nothing new to anyone. It's been a long time since the diagnosis is made and we agree that it's disastrous, it's worrying and it's at risk. There is a deep inequality between the coast and the interior — in the north and the centre —, a marked disparity between the north and the south and a total imbalance between the metropolitan areas and the medium cities. We littoralize, bipolarize and depopulate without assessing the problems or reflecting on the consequences. It is enough to show a demographic indicator of these inequalities to realize this: more than 60 % of the population is in the municipalities of the metropolitan areas of Lisbon and Porto and 85 % of the municipalities have less than 50 000 inhabitants. Subsequent PS governments, PSD and CDS have passively accepted this alarming reality, as a sort of premise of progress invoice, normalizing abnormality. Regardless of the physical characteristics of the territorial area, the problem was created by the neglected policies adopted. Today, we have two very serious problems: on the one hand, desertification and abandonment of the interior, especially of the rural world, and on the other hand, the overcrowded metropolitan areas with no structural response capacity and services, in a kind of agglomeration economy. And what has been the answer? For the metropolitan areas it is to increase the concentration of activities, because there is the market of financial profitability; for the interior it is to close services due to lack of scale and economic inviolability, with the stoned argument of inevitability. Without a doubt, effective and stimulating response: « they have little, then they will have less ». Only in this century have 6500 public services been closed, withdrawing the attractiveness of living in these territories, especially for the younger ones. The response to this situation of risk of territorial cohesion and environmental risk must be structural and consistent and not occasional or circumstantial, of the kind of punctual tax benefits or desperate municipal initiatives. It is time to return the withdrawn services and make public investment the catalyst for creating conditions for other cohesion-promoting investments. We therefore present in our draft resolution the development of a public services reopening programme in low density territories, structured in collaboration with the municipalities and in accordance with the assessment of its effect on the settlement, which should start in the first half of 2020. Another proposal that we present is the creation of a strategic plan for the development of the interior, as an area of intervention in a new ministry of territorial cohesion, which no doubt saw another capacity and another opportunity for intervention, including that of the intermediate and intermediate role of the medium cities. Finally, even contributing to the path of the digitization of society, propagated by the government, and as a practical tool of spatial planning and management, we present the proposal of a digital platform in the geographic information system (GIS), which, by mapping on a local and regional scale but, at the same time, inserted into a national vision, allows to determine the most appropriate spatial location for the creation/building of any infrastructure, through an adjusted combination of variables involved in the process.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u304	Sir, I want to ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u305	I'm done now, Mr. President. It is worth saying that these platforms are implemented in different countries and in Portugal some municipalities have already implemented them. It is important to enhance instruments of production and information that enable better and more organized policy-making. This is the intention of our proposals. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u306	Mrs Ana Mesquita also spoke on behalf of the CFP to present her own initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u307	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP welcomes the Union of the Viseu District Trade Unions for the revitalization of the petition calling for measures to combat desertification in the country. For our part, we follow the concerns and demands expressed by the Union and by all the subscribers and more we say that correcting inequalities in the territory requires necessarily to break up with the right-wing policy that has been practised and followed by successive governments. That is why we say and reaffirm that much more is needed than rough, unconnected measures and public investment resources parks. The situation in question requires an option, a commitment to balance the territory, respecting local characteristics and specificities, as well as populations. E, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not easy to live in the places of our country where so many things are still missing and the isolation often abounds. The truth is that it is important to value everyone, each one of the people who is there and deserves to live better on the ground where he laid the seeds of his life. In our country, we need a genuine programme for the development of villages, towns and towns, which has a set of integrated and dynamized measures at regional level, with the affirmation of the role of the State in economic, social and cultural terms, assuming the Government's responsibilities at central level, with respect to the autonomy of the democratic local power, the replacement of the parish and a fundamental issue of which we do not abdicate: the path to regionalisation, which the CFP defends and will bring to the plenary of the Assembly of the Republic on 19 February, proposing the establishment of the calendar for the institution, in particular, of the administrative regions in 2021.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u308	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u309	But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we want more and we have more proposals. What we are proposing, therefore, with our initiative, is that in 2020 the Government carry out a development plan for the national territory with measures to enhance the interior of the country and to combat the abandonment of the rural world, which goes, in particular, through the reopening of public services in the areas of health, education, transport, justice, security, finance, agriculture and others; by the end of the transfer of social functions from the State to the municipalities; which contains measures aimed at reducing the costs of production factors and, in particular, energy; to abolish tolls in the former SCUTs, which is a fundamental issue for the mobility of populations; which covers investment in improving mobility conditions at the level of the railway and their circulating material, rests the closed sections, and also road careers; to improve telecommunications services, with the expansion of the mobile broadband network and TDT and Mrs and Mrs. Members, who value family agriculture in those that are its multipledimensions , the agriculturaldimension , theforest , thelivestock , taking into account the need for effective implementation of theirstatus. The CFP will not give up and will continue to intervene in this matter, proposing the defense of this world and this country that has several balances that need to be respected,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u310	Mrs Ana Mesquita, I ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u311	I'm sorry, Mr. President. I'm done. As I was saying, the CFP will not give up and will continue to intervene in this matter, proposing the defense of this world and this country that has various balances that need to be respected, ensuring that we all live in a more balanced and territorially more harmonious country. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u312	You now have the floor to speak on behalf of the PSD, Mrs. Isaura Morais.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u313	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I want to begin by saying that the PSD converges on the essential concerns that are transversal to all projects, which are the fight against desertification in the interior of the country and the correction of regional asymmetries. These are initiatives that still keep the interior with some hope in the future. The level of regional imbalances that Portugal presents is not the same as a developed country but, yes, a backward country. When only 13, 5 % of its population live in two thirds of the territory, with a tendency to decrease, something is wrong. When there is no civic or political oversale in this state of affairs, no one can complain of the sharp ageing of the populations of the interior, of the under-use of their infrastructure, of their weak dynamism and of the abandonment of their soils and forests. It is urgent to reverse this dynamics of emptying and slow death. We must implement drastic measures and not only recipes that the past has already proved unable to solve whatever it is. If you want some success, the government is doomed to attract more investment, more companies and more jobs to these territories. In speech and in words, the interior is a priority; in developed policies, the interior remains forgotten.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u314	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u315	The PS and the left parliament speak but don't. And the best proof... [[Protests from PCP MP Paula Santos.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u316	Listen, listen!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u317	... it is that even last week the proposals submitted by the PSD that seriously promote territorial cohesion and the appreciation of the interior territories,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u318	That's right! That's the one!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u319	... including the one I suggested, and it has already been mentioned here, that future public services there would preferably be installed. [[PCP protests.]] For the PSD, the State has a particular responsibility for the spatial concentration process of the population, because it is solely responsible for the location of its own services and for defining its own policies for the establishment of people and jobs. For the PSD, the country's imbalance is one of the greatest failures of our democracy. We all need to interrupt the vicious cycle that causes people to leave in many territories, because there are no opportunities, and because they come out, opportunities are even lowered to those who are left.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u320	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u321	I shall finish by saying that either this issue is placed at the top of the agenda of priorities, as a true national design, or we do not leave this growing step. The PSD will do everything so that now, and once and for all, we turn from words to acts. They're counting on us! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u322	The next intervention is Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u323	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I now open here a new one-minute intervention format to which I will call the 'liberal minute'. This 'liberal minute' is today dedicated to the desertification of the interior, which is an important, serious and real issue and which therefore deserves a real solution, which will not come from the four projects under discussion, dragged by a petition, because they are of two types. That is: or it is a kind of pretext for the state to intervene more in the economy, agriculture, infrastructure and — it is a mistake! — in the reopening of public services, as if they had been closed because of desertification and had not been desertification which caused the closure and exit of these services — and they are forgetting that of the 20 courts that reopened in 2017 more than half continue "to the flies", which seems to solve all the problems; or they are another type of solution, which are studies, reports, digital platforms, with which I can already agree, especially if they made mention of asking people who wanted to go inside, and they were, or people who wanted to go inside, and they were not, or the people and companies who were inside, and they left, and why. Why did this happen or why, in some cases, it didn't happen?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u324	Mr President, you have already exceeded your 'liberal minute' and I therefore ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u325	Mr President, I ask you to be liberal this minute.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u326	That is no longer liberalism, it is liberality!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u327	The answer to that question is a way to respect people's free choice and to begin to respond effectively to problems by finding a real solution.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u328	The next intervention was Mrs Cecilia Meireles, from the CDS-PP. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u329	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to congratulate the petitioners who have brought us the question of desertification from within and to say a few things about the problem of the lack of territorial cohesion, which is a serious problem that exists in Portugal, or about the initiatives under discussion. I believe that the initiatives of the PCP, the Left Block and the ENP are divided into two types, the first of which is that of the initiatives that I would call « Best », because they do not do well but also do not harm, which are « let's study », « let's make another report », as if there were no abundant reports on the lack of territorial cohesion and the problems of the interior in Portugal. Finally, we are going to create more studies, observatories and reports, which will not hurt, but will not solve the problem either, and it is always better than the government initiative, which is that of « setting up a minister and ministry», which neither solves any problems nor creates some, such as to support the ministry. The second package of measures is that 'we will create more public services, we will reopen public services, we will have more public investments, we will end the tolls in the former SCUT, we will finally put the state in force inside', which, from your point of view, will solve all the problems.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u330	Don't! ... Abandoned is that good!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u331	As for that, I'd like to say two things. First, they have forgotten something that PCP Members usually like, which is self-criticism, because they have forgotten to say that in the last four years they have been actively supporting the government... [[Now!]] [[Now!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u332	...and maybe they could have done a little more than draft resolutions. They didn't do anything! of what they are now preaching nothing they have put into practice! So the first thing you have to do is make an apology, because, after all, if this was what they thought was the solution, then it was more valuable that they put it into practice. Secondly, I would like to tell you that, from my point of view, this is not the solution.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u333	It's closing!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u334	As long as you do not understand that the solution to the interior is opportunities for people — opportunities for life, opportunities for work —,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u335	... and that this is achieved, above all, with the private initiative, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, we're not going there. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u336	The next intervention lies with Mr José Rui Cruz of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u337	Mr President, first of all, I welcome the Members and the Members. Members, representatives of more than 4000 petitioners and, even if not present, all those who contributed to the submission of this petition. Today we discuss Petition No 216 / XIII / 2. the, signed by the Union of the Viseu District Trade Unions, in which the petitioners request the Government to adopt measures to combat desertification in the interior of the country, and four related legislative initiatives. In 2016, the date of the entry of this petition in this House, our country still barely stood up to one of the most difficult periods of its democracy imposed by the PSD and CDS coalition government for four long years and which has been felt in the interior territories. [[PSD protests.]] The petitioners — it is important to read the petition — well describe in the text of their petition this interior which was abandoned by the Government of then: closure of public services, such as schools, health units, courts, finance services, TTC services; abandonment of the territory by the population due to lack of investment, opportunities, living conditions. At the end of these four years, it has remained a deserted and abandoned territory, and from 2015 here the Government of the Socialist Party has sought to reverse this situation of full abandonment through the adoption of a diverse set of measures, namely: reopening the courts and strengthening the public services of proximity; reducing the costs of tolls on the motorways of the interior and, in this particular case, on motorways A24 and A25; increasing the taxation, within IRC, of companies based in low-density territories, in particular the extension of the collectible material from 15 to 25 thousand euros; the "Working in the Interior" programme, with incentives for geographical mobility of livestock and non-pecuniary character; strengthening the + Superior Programme to support pockets within the country; measures recently adopted in the State budget which facilitate mobility in residential terms, to set in place; the launch of the public competition and the start of the requalification works of the IP3 which enables the link, in particular, to enables the Commission to make it possible. This much-claimed work, whose first phase of requalification takes place in the section of the Penacova area, has only now begun and will cost about EUR 150 million, exclusively costed by money from the State budget. We can see it on the ground, as much as it costs our opposition to see this important work advance to the region.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u338	He's been there a long time!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u339	This work represents, as we know, an important step towards reducing regional asymmetries and strengthening the cohesion of the territories within the Central Country region. Also the recent launch of the public contest for the re-qualification and expansion of the urgency of the Hospital de Viseu, which will cost about EUR 6, 4 million, is a way to respond to the longing of the Central Country region. He's already on the ground and the contest has already been launched!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u340	Sir, I was asking you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u341	In the current legislature, the Government will not only continue these measures, as it intends to strengthen this strategy of appreciation of the interior in all these territories to be more attractive. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u342	The last intervention on this point was Mr André Ventura. You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u343	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It will not be « 1 minute liberal», nor anything comparable, but this debate is a certain lack of shame, because, in fact, if we have the asymmetries we have, it is because of a political system which today, for example, leaves Portalegre with two Members, making this district completely insignificant. It is also very funny that, in the fight against asymmetries, the main authorships are the Socialist Party and precisely the Communist Party. Look at the more deserted, remote, hidden regions. There are the authorships of the Communist Party and the Socialist Party, which have indeed done a great job over the past few years! Open... If the Alentejo becomes something it will be because the Arrival will throw on it a long cover that will soon be known throughout the region. [[Rice from PS, BE and PCP Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u344	It's a megalomanian project! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u345	But it is also a lack of shame to hear the leader of the Communist Party say «I will impose on the Socialist Party a list to approve this State budget». And on that list, there was the fight against desertification!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u346	Mr. Deputies, please finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u347	I'll finish. What did the Socialist Party have to do with combating desertification? Nothing! What was the vote of the Portuguese Communist Party? Abstention! There are your asymmetries, there is your struggle, there is your fight against what is the hidden country! At least there was shame in assuming that!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u348	It was the ‘minus in the family’!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u349	We move on to the third point of our agenda, the joint assessment of Petition No 510 / XIII / 3. a ( Fernando António Pinheiro Correia et al.) — About the operation of the Altice of acquisition of the Media Capital Group and its effects and of the Resolution Project No 193 / XIV / 1. a (PV) — Adoption of the necessary mechanisms to prevent the purchase of the Media Capital Group by Cofina, as well as to prevent conglomerates in the area of social communication. To present this draft resolution, Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u350	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: My first words are to greet the thousands of citizens who, by using this important instrument of participatory democracy that is the petition, bring their concerns to us on such an important issue as the claim or attempt to constitute a powerful concentration of ownership in the area of social communication. As the petitioners point out, multinational Altice has been noted as a compressor role of financial capital in social communication and telecommunications, but also in workers' rights. In view of this picture, it is important, first of all, not only to look for mechanisms that hinder the illegalities of the Altice in progress at PT ( Portugal Telecom ) and other companies in the group, but also to reverse the disturbing situation affecting journalists and other social media professionals in the ethical, professional and labour rights, in the precariousness of their link and unemployment. But it is also important to promote the resumption of public control of Portugal Telecom and to prevent the creation of conglomerates in the area of social communication, as, moreover, points to our Constitution, which in its Article 39. the, elects the non-concentration of media ownership as one of the basic principles of regulation of social communication. The Greens therefore consider that, by a culture of democratic responsibility, the Government should prevent the purchase of the Media Capital group, either by Cofina or by Altice. It is recalled that social communication is a pillar of democracy — although often underestimated or forgotten — it plays a key role in the information and construction of ways of thinking and acting, whose influence is enhanced by new information and communication technologies. In good rigour, this operation would represent much more than a mere business or a simple economic issue. The group that was born there would be the main player of the media in Portugal and presence or domain in all segments. This business, which we all know, would add to the high risks in the already worrying situation of the ownership of the media in Portugal, which is characterized by the concentration in a small number of economic groups linked, invariably, to the owners of the money. in this sense, and not being an economic operation, the government should, in compliance with the Constitution, develop the necessary endeavours to prevent this operation from being carried out, because what is involved is to assume political responsibility, thus ensuring freedom of expression, diversity and pluralism in the various sectors of social communication, as well as the right of citizens to information. It is also a matter of preventing the risk of the deterioration of the working conditions of journalists and the spread of practices of deregulation and respect for work and of avoiding other conglomerates which may come true.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u351	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Diana Ferreira of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u352	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like, on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, to congratulate the signatories of this petition and all those who have dynamized it and have brought to this House of the Republic concerns which, in fact, the CFP accompanies with regard to the creation of a cluster of power in the areas of telecommunications and social communication. Furthermore, in 2018, the CFP expressed these concerns at the time of the announced purchase of the Media Capital Group by the Altice, denouncing that this would mean deep risks to our country, bringing with it obvious and grave losses both in the economic and social levels as well as in the cultural and political levels, as well as profound implications for freedom of information and pluralism and, in this sense, the democratic regime itself. Since this operation has not been completed, it is expected that it will now be implemented with the purchase of Media Capital by Cofina is not far from the scenario that the CFP analysed in relation to the previous economic operation. The consummation of this business, a gigantic concentration, will mean that Cofina, to the television station, magazines and newspapers of which she owns will bring together six television channels, radio stations with large audiences, Internet portal and, moreover, content production, musical editing and events, as well as operations on the advertising market. It is clear the harmful consequences for pluralism, diversity and the quality of information that this concentration entails, in addition to the damage it will bring to the workers of these companies — life has shown that, in these situations, what is reserved for workers is the reality of dismissal, precariousness, reduction of rights and income. In this respect, it should also be recalled that the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic determines a set of assumptions for freedom of the press which are at issue if this merger is carried out in the field of social communication, as well as other constitutional commands concerning the non-concentration of the ownership of the media.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u353	Very well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u354	But it is also important to remember that it is up to the State to counter forms of monopolistic organization and to suppress abuses of a dominant position and other harmful practices of the general interest. The government must therefore assume its responsibilities and stop this concentration of ownership, and thus also defend pluralism and democracy. Since this is not a situation of responsibility of a regulatory dimension, we cannot fail to consider the position of the ERC on this matter unacceptable, which leaves the free way for the accumulation of profits in this sector and for the economic power to strengthen its influence and its power over information, on the production of information and on the dissemination of information. What is needed is to use the legal mechanisms necessary to prevent the realization of this operation, to prevent the concentration of the ownership of the media and the creation of conglomerates in this sector; how it is necessary to ensure firm actions in defence of all the jobs and the rights of the workers of Media Capital and Cofina, but also of all the professionals in the social communication sector. This is the path that the PCP defends, this is the path that we will take and we will fight for. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u355	I now give the floor to Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo of the Liberal Initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u356	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I will dedicate this « liberal minute» to the acquisition of Media Capital and a very dear mantra of liberals, which is « maximum freedom with maximum responsibility» and its decline in the business world, which is « contractual freedom subject to strong and independent regulation and supervision ». We have already had examples of the two things in this case: the Media Capital has already concluded two agreements of principle of sale, the regulators have already made the first and gave green light to the second. The regulators, in this case the ERC ( Regulatory Entity for Social Communication ) and the Competition Authority, especially the Competition Authority, are strong and independent regulators and are very well supported by the Television Act, which in its Article 4. o-B, provides exactly the conditions in which there may be excessive concentration of the audiovisual sector. So let us let the regulators work and everything else we will leave to the freedom of people and businesses, as much confusion as this can cause to the left parliament.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u357	You have the floor, to speak the next speech, Mr. José Magalhães, of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u358	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to welcome the petitioners who spoke against the acquisition of the Media Capital Group by the Altice — its goal, in fact, has just been achieved — and I would like to say that the ENP diploma poses a really serious problem. And we should say the names of things, if not this debate seems a little strange. The draft resolution of the ENP aims to provide for the complaints of the Enterprise Group and the Global Media Group, which disagree with the new media framework that will result from the acquisition of Media Capital by Cofina. That's the point! It could present a draft antimonopolistic law or a similar to the one presented by the Left Block in 2003 or 2004, which did not have a provision on the concentration. But no, it presents a draft resolution, i.e. a recommendation, which is soft law, to call it something,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u359	That's what the PS does!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u360	... saying « the government that solves the problem ». But there is a problem: the government has no legal authority to suspend such a process, which is following its proceedings with the intervention of all entities — the ERC, the Competition Authority, ANACOM ( National Communications Authority ), etc. — with each of the steps validated, unless he did a sample, such as the one who suspended the works of the subway, through a budgetary standard. Now, for samples they don't count on us. That point is quite clear! It also impresses that it does not take into account that we are facing a new ecosystem, which continues to be very hyper-regulated in relation to audiovisual—we will have to transpose Directive (EU) 2018/1808, still in this legislative session—but that it has other unregulated or unregulated components, such as the law on new platforms. Therefore, the old hybrid system with open, public and private signal channels, is actually being replaced by a multiplicity of channels, some of which are accessible by over-the-top operators, i.e. entities operating through the Internet and with which we hire, without any State intervention, using our respective credit card or coupons, and establishing a contractual relationship according to our free will. This is a path to the future! Our position on this matter is as follows: firstly, we are by an ecosystem in which public service has an essential role — in Britain, for example, Boris Johnson is preparing to dismantle the BBC, which is a criminal offence; secondly, we believe that the administrative and independent authorities should be intervened to ensure that there are no injury to competition or attacks on pluralism; thirdly, we believe that Parliament must intervene to monitor and monitor all the steps taken by its competent committees. To suspend the brute or kick the difficulty for the government is not! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u361	For an intervention, Mr Jorge Costa, of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u362	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This is, in fact, a recurring issue, as has just been mentioned. The opposition to media concentration seems to be a consensus when we hear these debates, as well as the idea that competition, diversity and pluralism in social communication are a good thing to defend. As was also mentioned by Mr. José Magalhães, in 2003 when there was an absolute right-wing majority in Parliament, the Left Block presented a draft antimonopolis law in relation to social communication. At the time, Mr Arons de Carvalho praised him, saying that he was tailored to the needs and that he was against the concentration of social communication, which was already felt acutely in Portugal. The problem is that the Left Block again presented this initiative in 2008 and it was plunged by the Socialist Party, which always returns with complaints about monopolistic concentration in social communication. For the problem is this: we have a constant concern and a permanent inaction on the problem of media concentration. What is before us is the possibility of having, immediately, with this conglomerate operation, one of the three generalist televisions, the second radio group, the first daily newspaper, the most frequent websites on the Internet in news and one third of the largest distributor of periodical publications in Portugal in the hands of the same group, the Cofina Group. This is a qualitative worsening of the already existing scenario of high concentration of the media in Portugal, an oligopoly that lives together and feeds on the weakness of the regulator itself. When we look at the opinion of the ERC on this merger maneuver, it seems that we are reading the argumentary of Prof. Mário Mesquita — the only one in the ERC that opposed the concentration — having only changed the last line, in which it was given a positive view rather than having been given a negative opinion. This opinion explains that pluralism is at stake, that there is a strong risk of thematic harmonisation, that there is a strong risk of conditioning public opinion, journalism and the conditions of professional practice. That is to say, all we know is that the concentration of the media is what the ERC says will happen, but it looks positive to the operation. In view of this, it is necessary to return to the basics, but it is necessary to return to the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, which is the fundamental law and which in its text has the explicit reference to the duty of the State to prevent the concentration of media on behalf of freedom of the press, on behalf of the right to be informed and informed. That's what's at stake today. Therefore, the Government has the strongest legal basis it can have to intervene in this context, even if there is no antimonopolis law, thanks to the Socialist Party, which deals specifically with these matters. The Government has the duty, in the light of the Constitution, to prevent the worsening of the oligopoly situation that we have today in the Portuguese social communication, in the name, above all, of the freedom of the profession of journalist and the freedom of the press. And that freedom is affected when we have a completely focused media panorama and when we know that a journalist who is fired today from an economic group will have greater difficulties in continuing his professional activity. It is this context of lack of democratic freedom that we are building by allowing and closing our eyes to these merger maneuvers. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u363	The next intervention is Mr André Ventura. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u364	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In fact, this ENP project does not fail to surprise us because, in addition to wanting any regulation, it says « a project aimed at preventing the purchase of one group from another ».
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u365	Is it not a declaration of conflict of interest? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u366	We will be very clear: you are not worried about the workers, neither about the journalists, nor about any of this.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u367	You know! You know everything!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u368	You are choosing groups instead of others, you are choosing certain people instead of others. That's what's happening here. But there is an aggravating, which is the fact that you spend the year praising independent and regulatory entities, but when the time comes to believe them no longer believe them and then they want the government to intervene. [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] So say there, gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what do you want: do you want the government to say 'yes' and 'no' to every purchase related to social communication? Oh, my God! They want the government to decide, as in Cuba and Venezuela, who's passing radios, who's passing televisions and who's going through newspapers? Oh, my God! That time is over! We live in a time of private initiative, economic freedom. We live in a time of pluralism.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u369	Show the bill!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u370	I told you I don't admit it! [[Protests from BE and PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u371	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us create conditions for Mr Ventura to continue his intervention. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u372	With regard to this operation, which aims to be prevented, what is at stake is nothing more than the transition from control of Spanish hands to Portuguese hands, but at least that should pride us as a country. At the very least, you should be proud that there is a group that moves from Spanish hands to Portuguese hands.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u373	The next and last intervention on this point is Mr Paulo Rios de Oliveira, from the PSD. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u374	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On behalf of the PSD, I honour the petitioners for their initiative, although, for reasons not of your responsibility, it has lost its current position. By drag, we discussed a draft resolution of the ENP, curated from a 2018 PCP project, on Cofina and the Media Capital Group. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this issue has been going on for more than two years since it became news and, remember, it has gone through a long process of evaluation and validation. Interestingly, the ENP supports ERC, ANACOM and the Competition Authority to anchor their draft resolution. See: In September 2019, Cofina announced that it had reached agreement with the Spanish-Prisa to buy the Media Capital ; In October of the same year, the Governing Council of the ERC committed « not to oppose » the purchase business of Media Capital by the Cofina Group « because it is not concluded that such an operation brings into question the values of pluralism and diversity of opinions, the protection of which is the responsibility of the ERC to safeguard the custody of the ERC » ; In November of the same year, ANACOM approved, with a non-binding character, the Cofina / Media Capital concentration operation for it not to raise « relevant competitive issues in electronic communications markets » ; In December of the same year, the Competition Authority gives definitive green light to the purchase of VAT by Cofina — « After thorough analysis, the Competition Authority considers that the merger is not likely to create significant barriers to competition in any of the relevant markets. (...) In the investigation two associations representative of the media agencies and an association representative of the advertisers were consulted and the same confirmed that the customer's trading counterpower is sufficient to make any negative impact of the merger unlikely. » And I'm just quoting! ; In January this year, in the extraordinary general assembly, the shareholders of Cofina approved the purchase of Media Capital to Prisa. Mrs. Members, having exceeded all potential legal or regulatory constraints or limitations to this operation, this initiative in no way contains the model of market economy with active presence and independent regulation in which the PSD believes. Thus, and not being a question of legality or legitimacy, the reasons for the opposition of the PCP and the ENP must be assumed as political or, more than that, as mere ideological prejudice. The approval of the merger does not prevent the authorities themselves in future to defend competition, communication or labour relations, or even the courts, from being prevented from monitoring or preventing abuses or distortions of Portuguese or Community laws. What we cannot do is, by ideological cartilage, prevent a market operation validated by all relevant and regulatory entities. Or is Spanish investment virtuous and Portuguese investment sinful? In short, the PSD does not follow the terms and conclusions of this project. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-12.u375	We are thus finishing our agenda today. Tomorrow the plenary will meet at 3 p.m. and there are several points for discussion. First, Parliamentary Survey No. 1 / XIV / 1 will be appreciated. a (CH) — Establishment of a parliamentary committee to investigate the fraud of Pedrogão Grande in awarding subsidies. Secondly, Petition No 437 / XIII / 3 will be appreciated. a ( André Lourenço e Silva et al.) — Requests the creation of a national animal experiment council, together with the Bills No. 189 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Amends Decree-Law No 113 / 2013 of 7 August, strengthening the rules of protection and animal welfare in scientific research, 78 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Valuation of the National Committee for the Protection of Animals used for scientific purposes, 208 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Strengthen the rules of protection and animal welfare in scientific research and 87 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recommends the adoption of concrete and immediate measures in the field of the use of animals in scientific research. Next, Petition No 610 / XIII / 4 will be appreciated. a ( Ana Celeste Maia Pires Gloria et al.) — They call on the Assembly of the Republic to take measures to save the House of Fisheries, classified heritage, located in the Quinta de Recreio dos Marqueses de Pombal, in Oeiras, and to ensure the preservation, dissemination and openness of this heritage package to the public, together with the Draft Resolution No 233 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — By safeguarding the heritage and rehabilitation of the House of Fisheries in Oeiras ( Lisbon ). Then we will appreciate Petition No 614 / XIII / 4. a ( FENPROF - National Federation of Teachers) — They request the revision of Decree-Law No 75 / 2008 of 22 April approving the regime of autonomy, administration and management of public institutions of pre-school education and basic and secondary education, together with the Bills No 190 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Altera o Decree-Law No 75 / 2008, of 22 April- Regime of autonomy, administration and management of public institutions of pre-school education and basic and secondary education and 192 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Democratic management of pre-school establishments and basic and secondary schools and draft resolution No 206 / XIV(PAN) — Recommends to the Government that it assess and decide on a model for democratic management of public basic and secondary schools. Petition No 425 / XIII / 3 will still be appreciated. a ( José Luís da Rocha Cia et al.) — They request the elimination of the portico of Neiva, A28 porch 4, along with the Resolution Project No 71 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends to the Government the abolition of tolls in A28. I wish to all and to all the continuation of a very good afternoon. The session is closed. [[It was 18 hours and 29 minutes.]]
