ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u1	Good morning, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen. Let's start the session. [[It was 9 hours and 35 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Authorities opening the galleries. The first item on our agenda concerns the general joint assessment of Bill Nos 57 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Transposing Directive ( EU ) 2018 / 958 on a proportionality test to be carried out before approval of new professional regulations and 59 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Simplifies the procedures associated with the recognition of professional qualifications by transposing Directive 2005 / 36 / EC. To open this debate, Mr. Under-Secretary of State, Labour and Vocational Training, Miguel Cabrita has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Freedom of choice and access to professions is a fundamental right guaranteed by the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic and ensuring that effective freedom of access is also one of the priorities of the Government's Programme. Moreover, the recognition of professional qualifications obtained in the European Union and in the European Economic Area, where regulated professions are concerned, is an essential condition today for the exercise of freedom of access to profession and also for the functioning of a real internal market within the European framework. It is in this framework that the Government submits to this House two proposals for legislation implementing European directives on these matters. At the time available, I would like to present the most relevant aspects of each of the bills discussed here today. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Through Directive ( EU ) 2018 / 958, the European Union has adopted a common framework requiring a proportionality test before the adoption of new laws, regulations or administrative provisions limiting access to or exercising a regulated profession. in this sense, Bill No 57 / XIV / 2. it aims, among other aspects, to establish a regime of access and exercise of professional professions and activities, harmonizing, in the same regime, all situations in which it can be regulated or conditioned. It is also intended to clarify that regulated professions are all those which are subject to the verification of professional access and exercise requirements, including professions whose regulations are included in the tasks of professional public associations, thus removing distinctions that existed in the previous legal framework. It also intends to establish an evaluation process prior to the adoption of legislative provisions limiting access to regulated professions or their pursuit, including, in this case, those professions whose regulations are included in the tasks of professional public associations. This prior assessment shall be proportionate, justified, objective, independent and take into account all the mandatory elements defined by the Directive itself. It further determines that this prior assessment of proportionality is carried out by the competent authorities, which are defined in Law No 9 / 2009, in their current wording, when already regulated professions are concerned, and by the sectoral government area, when professions that are to be regulated in the future are concerned. Finally, this proposal provides that such proportionality assessment is the subject of a mandatory but non-binding opinion by the Directorate-General for Employment and Labour Relations (DGERT ), having this opinion to be taken into account in the legislative process. As regards the other bill, Law No 59 / XIV / 2. the main aim is to harmonise and simplify the procedures that are associated with the recognition of professional qualifications obtained in other countries of the European Union, by means of amendments which, from the outset, include a uniformization of time-counting, which, in fact, seems to be a bureaucratic or administrative aspect, aims to facilitate this type of recognition. It also seeks to equate the regulated profession with the professions carried out by members of organisations and associations benefiting from a special recognition in another State of the European Union. It also intends to introduce a new provision with regard to the temporary exercise of activity in Portugal, insofar as it clarifys the conditions of temporary and automatic registration within the scope of the provision of services in our country, insofar as no compulsory registration procedure may be imposed on those who pursue this activity, nor can any additional charges, delays or greater complexity in access to the provision of services, within the scope of the professional activity concerned, in the Portuguese economic area and in the labour market in Portugal be imposed. Finally, this proposal clarifies the protection of acquired rights, for the purpose of recognition of training qualifications, in access to certain professional activities. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : These amendments are important steps to strengthen the freedom of access to and exercise of professions, the mobility and movement of professionals in the European area, which we also want for Portuguese professionals, and, in this regard, a strengthening of workers' rights, in particular those with special qualifications, and the conditions for the movement of persons in the European area, a condition also important for the affirmation of a true internal market. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u3	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the Bureau is awaiting registration. [[Pause.]] In principle, however, we should move on to the next item on our agenda, because, when the speaker finished speaking, there were no entries yet.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u4	Mr President, I want to sign up for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u5	Mrs. Fabíola Cardoso, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u6	Mr President, first of all, I would like to congratulate the Secretary of State and the other team, the Members and the Members. Members present and also the services. Today we are debating two bills, submitted with a request for priority and urgency, which seek to promote convergence with European directives on the recognition of professional qualifications, thereby reducing constraints on the free movement of workers in the European Union. The Proposal for Law No 57 / XIV / 2. the transposition of Directive ( EU ) 2018 / 958, of June 2018, which creates the requirement for proportionality tests to be carried out before the approval of new regulation of professions. It is therefore intended to ensure that restrictions on access to regulated professions that are established are in line with the principles of proportionality. The application of this measure, as defended by the proposal submitted by the Government, will enable a common, transparent and predictable analytical framework to be adopted, ensuring fair rules in all Member States and eliminating barriers to access to certain activities, and will also allow the prohibition of discrimination on grounds of nationality or residence. A successive impact assessment mechanism shall be established, according to which an assessment shall be carried out every three years or whenever justified; the prohibition on excess regulation of access to and exercise of professional activities and also the setting of clauses limiting free access to a given activity shall be strengthened; and the requirements necessary for the exercise of the profession shall be preserved in linguistic terms. The Proposal for Law No 59 / XIV / 2. it aims to simplify the administrative procedures associated with the recognition of professional qualifications, improving Law No 9 / 2009, of March 2009. This law, which transposed Directives 2005 / 36 / EC and 2006 / 100 / EC, has already been amended in 2012, 2014 and 2017. The still existing 'convergence gaps' with these directives lead to this new legislative text of 275 pages purely 'legislative harmonisation'. A long and complex simplification! Open... It defends the Left Block that professions are regulated and not fully liberalized, but does not advocate restrictions that inhibit the exercise of profession based on purely corporate logics, which sometimes happens. We agree with the reduction of unjustified or disproportionate obstacles to the mobility of workers and the recognition of their rights. We do not advocate deregulation and liberalized access, which has proved wrong in the past and creates precariousness in the present, for example in the case of digital platforms. The regulation and licensing of any economic activity should be accompanied by the requirement of decent labour standards, as has been discussed throughout the world. The regulatory framework proposed by these initiatives requires a strengthening of the intervention of the Directorate-General for Employment and Labour Relations. The organic structure and the workers' framework of this body are still being damaged by the constraints imposed during the period of the troika and right-wing governance, so the strengthening of its intervention should be accompanied by the strengthening of the service itself and its operational capacity. Similar alerts can also be made with regard to the Working Conditions Authority ( ACT ), which we hope you will see your staff map and your enhanced performance capacity so that you can respond to the current strengthening of skills. Finally, we do not fail to call attention to the fact that there is a dimension of the regulation of professions that depends on the existence of balanced collective labour relations. Although this is not the debate that we do with these diplomas, it is impossible not to emphasise also that the dynamics of precariousness and deregulation in the practical exercise of professions require that the profound imbalance and the precarious shoulders remain in the law of work and that they move in the rules that inhibit and imbalance collective bargaining, such as, for example, the expiry or non-application of the principle of treatment most favourable to the worker. In short, the proposals put forward are generally worthy of our agreement, although their effectiveness calls for a link between the matter they deal with and these others which we have just mentioned. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u7	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Joana Sá Pereira.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members : Today we are discussing two important initiatives, presented by the Government, which have as their common aim the need for greater convergence with the Union rules on both the recognition of qualifications and access and the exercise of professions, thereby promoting a correction to the excessive barriers that exist to the freedom of choice of profession. The Proposal for Law No 59 / XIV / 2. the aim is, as the Secretary of State mentioned, to simplify the procedures relating to the recognition of professional qualifications by improving, moreover, Law No 9 / 2009, which, 11 years later, still presents some disharmony. It is true that the 2012 and 2017 amendments to this subject have facilitated the recognition of professional qualifications, reducing constraints on the free movement of persons and facilitating the labour market, but it is necessary to make an important qualitative leap. We really need to promote a "Simple" in the recognition of qualifications, we need to create automation and decomplicate procedures, and that is what we actually find in this Government proposal. It is essentially four of the amendments which this initiative enshrines. First of all, the conditions for temporary and automatic registration are clarified in the context of the provision of services in our country, without the need for compulsory registration, preventing the existence of additional charges, delays or greater complexity in the provision of citizenship services in another Member State which is enrolled in a public association to exercise their profession temporarily in our country. Secondly, it promotes the strengthening of the guarantee of protection of acquired rights, in relation to the recognition of training qualifications, in access to certain activities. Thirdly, the deadlines laid down are uniform. Finally, it establishes the equalization of the regulated profession exercised by certain organisations or associations with special recognition status in another Member State of the Union. in this way, we believe that not only is the qualitative leap in the recognition of qualifications, but we also take an important step in better matching the interests of citizens and organisations within the Union. The second proposal presented by the Government is, in fact, the result of the necessary transposition of the directive establishing a proportionality test, to be carried out before the approval of a regulation of professions, and creates clear and transparent rules on this matter; but it goes further by incorporating in the new diploma the regime of access and exercise of professions and professional activities, which is currently regulated by Decree-Law No 37 / 2015. But this is a proposal that adds important values and principles and, above all, that contributes to a regulatory framework that enhances growth, innovation and employment, which is worth highlighting. First, it includes the professions regulated by professional orders within the scope of the access and exercise scheme. Secondly, it deepens the control and guarantee mechanisms of freedom of access and exercise of professions and activities. Finally, as Mr Secretary of State also explained, regulates the prior assessment test of proportionality to existing and future provisions limiting access to any profession, includes the need for mandatory prior opinion issued by DGERT, ensures the successive impact assessment of this instrument and creates mechanisms for the exchange of information with other Member States in the framework of this assessment. This last point is indeed the great innovation, which is in line with the objective of the Socialist Party's electoral programme. Freedom of choice and access to profession is a constitutionally guaranteed fundamental right and the State has an obligation to ensure, avoiding disproportionate restrictions that impede its exercise. This important step, which this proposal implements, requires that any measure or option taken capable of restricting this fundamental right is not discriminatory, if justified for imperative reasons of general interest, it is appropriate to ensure the achievement of the objective pursued and not exceed what is necessary to achieve this objective. Equal opportunities, right to work, right to freedom of choice of profession, free movement of workers and service providers: we will not abdicate from any of these principles, nor will we give in to attempts to divide citizens, among those who already exercise an activity and those who dream, one day, to succeed. The PS Parliamentary Group will combat any unjustified and disproportionate practice that limits or hinders access to professions in our country. We will not let any more citizens stand at the door of their professional dream for unacceptable corporate foundations. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u9	Mr Teixeira has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Under-Secretary of State and Labour: This is the time to act, assist and protect, but also to harmonise and simplify procedures, both in the economy and at work, with the Portuguese always first. It is time to act because we have a fierce fight in front of us, a fight to curb inequalities, to minimize layoffs and wage rationality, and a fierce struggle to minimize the difficulties of businesses and entrepreneurs, who have felt the lack of protection and support of the State. It is from labour matters and labour problems that we have repeatedly spoken about in this House, but the two proposed laws which the Government brings to us today for consideration in the plenary come from only transpositions of European directives and, in addition to the result of the vote that will take place, will remain in public consultation until next 7 November, thus waiting for citizens' contributions. Generally speaking, when it comes to government claims for transposition into the national legal order of matters adopted in Parliament and in the European Council, the need to regulate issues as important as the professions and professional qualifications of Portuguese and European citizens must always be assessed. These European directives, which were adopted in 2005 — have been there for a few years! — and 2018, essentially aimed at legislative harmonisation and clarification of procedures, as a result of a multiplicity of heterogeneous regulations, which constitute a real obstacle to freedom of movement and the establishment of professional activities. These are important and decisive issues in people's lives, especially since in Europe there are only 5500 regulated professions, representing little more than 22 % of existing jobs, and among them, the biggest share is that of those who develop an independent professional activity, of which only one third, about 33 %, has their profession properly regulated. This is another conditional issue, which should certainly deserve an overall position of the Government and European bodies, so that many other professions, in addition to those with an impact on health and safety, have the recognition of their professional qualifications. First, as regards the Proposal for Law No 57 / XIV / 2. the, the proportionality test, to be carried out before the new regulation of professions is approved, reveals the need to ensure that the rules are applied fairly throughout the Union, in order to increase competition between a greater number of professions, allowing a greater possibility of choice by consumers and creating productivity gains. For this reason, it is crucial to bear in mind, in the proposed law, the clarification that, in the full access to and exercise of a regulated profession, there is a need for constant verification of the professional qualifications of workers by competent authority. Law No 59 / XIV / 2. the, which simplifies the procedures associated with recognition of qualifications, results from the need to fill gaps, 10 years after Law No 9/2009 entered into force, this law which is thus, with this proposal, improved in terms of deadlines, the equalization of the profession held as the exercise and recognition of qualifications for training and professional qualifications. It was important, however, that, in addition to the recognition of these qualifications resulting from European directives, the Government also concerned itself with valuing careers and dignifying independent professions, promoting social protection. One of the dramas of the Real Country at present is, among other examples, what happens to lawyers in economic difficulties. It is unacceptable that, in order to be able to access financial and social protection, they must prove the unsuccessful recourse to private requests for help to those close to them. This cannot be the way, Mr. Secretary of State. It is therefore also time to give effective public responses, at this delicate stage of public health, to support families, to protect jobs and the incomes of our workers. in this regard, the Government cannot fail, cannot relax, cannot continue to remain inoperative. It is also necessary to rethink other professional matters that obey the most appropriate regulations, such as telework, because it is time to give answers to protect and support the professions, to dignify qualifications and to increase the competitiveness of companies in a single and open market. It's urgent to do it and it's not early. We are not opposed to the diplomas now appreciated by the government. These are amendments that come from European directives, but we will certainly have to wait for the completion of the public consultation phase, which may involve further improvements to existing laws and the consultation of other entities, in the field of expertise. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u11	Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : Today we are discussing two proposals for legislation implementing European directives on the regulation of professions, qualifications and access and exercise of professions and professional activities. It is considered in these bills that it is important to ensure legislative harmonisation in these matters, in particular in the Proposal for a Law No 59 / XIV / 2. to correct gaps in convergence with the above and previous directives of the European Union which have already been transposed into national legislation. On these bills, it is important to say that, once again and like previous situations, we are discussing initiatives that transpose European directives into a process made very quickly, as the bill was delivered about a month ago. It was important to know in this debate which entities were consulted or heard in the preparation of these same proposals if some were consulted, taking into account the concerns of several entities who arrived at the CFP Parliamentary Group. A transposition follows the rules laid down in the Portuguese institutions, it must be adapted to national legislation, with different institutions and entities which will be covered and appreciated in this Parliament. That is why we are asking which entities have been consulted in the drafting of these proposed laws, which transpose European directives. These proposals are now in public view and we believe that their discharge, without a vote, to the committee, which has already been requested, is important until it deepens the discussion and collects contributions on them. On the proposals for legislation in particular, we have some comments to make. The Proposal for Law No 57 / XIV / 2. it proposes to establish a system of access and exercise of professions and professional activities, even replicating the Decree-Law No. 37 / 2015 and transposing the directive that presupposes the performance of a proportionality test, to take place before the approval of a new regulation of professions. The introduction of the articles which basically reflect what is contained in the European Directive in the field of proportionality — in particular Articles 4. o, 10. o, 11. the, among others, brings us to the same appreciation as we have done on this matter in the European Parliament itself. This legislation obliges Member States to carry out a proportionality test before introducing a legislative provision which may lead to changes in the regulation of access to regulated professions following the Directive adopted in 2013, now seeking to take further the restriction of the freedom of Member States to regulate professions on the basis of what they consider necessary for reasons of public interest, on behalf of the free provision of services in the single market, i.e. on behalf of a free competition between the labour force, to impose its general devaluation, the reduction of rights and wages, the depreciation of the status of certain professions and the increase of exploitation. In addition, the risk of a levelling below the level of qualification requirement associated with certain professions, reducing years of training, reducing the quality of the services provided and harming the public interest. As regards Bill No 59 / XIV / 2. the same, makes amendments to Law No 9 / 2009. On this point, we remember a number of concerns that we noted at the time and that they remain, from the very outset, the non-requirement of registration in the social security of the country where the service is provided. As we said in 2009, the transposition of this directive attempts to address the link with the freedom of movement of persons, and in this regard it must be considered as a whole of workers' rights by raising them and not creating competition to facilitate the reduction of wages at European level, which we also know is what these directives aim at and, indeed, the single market itself. These concerns remain in the analysis that we make of these bills, until no solutions are presented or these problems are solved, as they have not been resolved in the past, in other bills that have amended this same Law No 9 / 2009. We must also mention the issue of equal treatment. That is, there are conditions of access to professions that remain underlying in other countries and that are required to the Portuguese that go there, which we, in some way, facilitate in national territory.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u13	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u14	I'm really going to finish, Mr. President. In this respect, however, the principle of reciprocity should work, i.e. equal treatment. If a country requires certain conditions for the exercise of a profession, we should have the same criterion so as not to allow the discrimination of Portuguese workers vis-à-vis other countries. It is with these concerns that we went to work in the field of specialty. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u15	Mr João Gonçalves Pereira has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u16	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State : We are discussing a proposal for a law on the regulation of professions and the recognition of professional qualifications. in this transposition of the directive, there is the intention to have a common response framework, which is transparent and predictable, also seeking a harmonisation of the situations in which access and exercise of the profession and professional activity can be conditioned. We have some reservations about the procedure for this same initiative. That is to say, there is a decree of the former Government and many of the provisions contained in the new diploma are set out in the previous decree of law. The question is this: why has not only changed the diploma that was in force, rather than being revoked, so that we now have a new diploma? It is also important to highlight, by pointing out this criticism, the fact that the Government has allowed the mandatory deadline for the transposition of this directive, with all the implications that may arise. Such matters, which concern the exercise of professions and directly influence the labour market, in our perspective, deserved another rigour and another debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u17	I wonder if any of the parliamentary groups that still have time intends to intervene. [[Pause.]] This is not the case, Mr. Secretary of State Miguel Cabrita has the floor to close this debate, which is still available for 52 seconds, in addition to two minutes for the closure.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u18	Mr President, I would like to reply briefly to some of the questions raised in Mr President's speeches. Ladies and gentlemen. First of all, I begin by answering the question that has to do with the fact that this legislation we propose merely in Mr Teixeira's words to transpose European directives. I support the essential point of intervention because, in fact, the fundamental objective of these two proposals of law refers precisely to the transposition, to the Portuguese legal system, of the content of European directives, in one of the cases supplementing that transposition. This answer is also for the intervention of Mr CDS's Member, but I will already go there. In fact, I only do not follow him because, on the one hand, they are important provisions, for the reasons that were quite clear during the debate, and because, on the other hand, fulfilling the obligation to transpose European directives is something that the Portuguese State is linked to. And, in particular, when we are just a few months away from starting the Portuguese Presidency of the Council of the European Union, of course we have every interest in having as far as possible cleaned up with regard to the internalisation of European standards in our legal system. In reply to the question posed by Mr CDS, I would like to say that one of the reasons for the issues he raised had to do with the fact that, in relation to one of the last transpositions, the European Commission considered that there were aspects that lacked better transposition, which led to the amendment to a decree which had been approved during the previous government. Above all, I would like to say that the general meaning of this legislation is, as mentioned here, the promotion of greater equality and greater freedom. They are principles of which we do not abdicate, are principles which are also reflected in the fundamental objectives of the European Union's legal order and, we are not in favour of a fully liberalised market in this area, as in any respect, we are perhaps advocating that the internal market is important and works better when it has clear, transparent and predictable rules. It is not at all concerned, contrary to what has been mentioned, particularly within the European area, to level down the requirements of qualifications; rather, it is at stake to strengthen workers' rights, because we also like the rights of Portuguese workers who have qualifications obtained in Portugal to be recognised in other countries of the European Union and that there are no artificial difficulties, bureaucratic or corporate barriers, as was also mentioned here, which can in any way prevent the access and exercise of professions. As regards matters relating to public consultation, as you know, it is also a tradition that, since there is public consultation and being this matter of competence of the Assembly of the Republic, the period to start for this purpose will precisely allow the hearing of the relevant entities to be heard. Therefore, it is intended that this public consultation is the objective — to be used to listen to entities that are understood to be relevant, in particular by the Assembly of the Republic. This legislation, in particular in one of the cases, actually brings increased responsibilities to the Directorate-General for Employment and Labour Relations. I would like to make it public that, as you know, the Government has over time been fighting for the strengthening of the administration of work, both in terms of competence and in terms of means. It has been referred to the DGERT and it has been referred to the ACT and, from a budgetary point of view, from a human point of view, there has been a very significant strengthening for both of them over the past few years. This is a path that we undertake to pursue.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u19	Would you like to conclude, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u20	In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to say that it was possible now in 2020 for an extraordinary reinforcement of the means of the Act, which has reached 495 inspectors, the highest number of all the time, and that we want it to be made permanent with the extension of the staff framework, from the time of the approval of the State budget to 2021, that we hope it will succeed. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u21	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, before we begin the second item on our agenda, I should like to remind you that, in the previous point, we do not comply with the new rule of law, in that, after the presentation of the item, if there are no entries, the floor will be given to the parliamentary groups in increasing order. I therefore appeal that, at the next point, they register in time to intervene, otherwise we will comply with this new provision. We will then begin the second point, which consists in the general assessment of the Bill No 58 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Authorizes the Government to legislate on the qualification and training of drivers of certain road vehicles for the carriage of goods and passengers by transposing Directive ( EU ) 2018 / 645. To present the bill, Mr. Secretary of State for Infrastructures, Jorge Delgado.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The proposal for a legislative authorisation law presented here arises from the need for transposition of Directive ( EU ) 2018 / 645 and subsequent revision of Decree-Law No 126 / 2009. In essence, and in summary, it is intended that the Government be granted authorisation to amend the legal regime relating to the initial qualification and continuous training of drivers of certain road vehicles of goods and passengers. This amendment essentially seeks to respond to two objectives: the first, and of course, is to accept and integrate the standards set out in Directive ( EU) 2018 / 645 and the second is to review the qualification and certification regime of drivers affected by the transport of heavy goods and passenger vehicles, in particular in the main aspects of the fixing of documents entitled to the qualification of drivers for the exercise of the driving of vehicles, the review of the conditions for the issue of the professional fitness certificate of drivers, the review of the continuing training terms of drivers of vehicles and the access of foreign drivers to training and, furthermore, the review of the conditions and requirements for certification of training entities, the respective certification process, the mode of operation of training centres and their training courses. The need for this request for authorization to the Assembly of the Republic arises from the fact that the subjects concerned may interfere with, on the one hand, the freedom of access to the profession, since it is intended that the review should affect a set of requirements regarding the qualification, certification, fitness and training schemes to be motorists, and also access to training for foreign drivers, and on the other hand the exercise of the free private initiative, in order to revise certain rules in the framework of the certification procedures of the drivers training bodies. Thus, in so far as these aspects contain constitutionally enshrined rights, freedoms and guarantees, such matters are solely within the competence of the Assembly of the Republic and may be committed to the Government by means of the authorization requested herein. To whom does this decree apply? to nationals of a Member State and to nationals of a third country, provided that they are employed or hired by an undertaking established in a Member State and that they are authorised to drive heavy goods vehicles and/or passengers. What, then, are the main developments in the current regime? There will be a clarification of the exemption scheme. It is intended to clarify situations in which drivers are exempted from driving as their main activity, as well as mutual recognition of qualifications throughout the European Union, by making such recognition automatic, the possibility of providing for exemptions for drivers operating in rural areas, the implementation of an electronic system for sharing information on driver fitness certificates, the strengthening of the costs of training of road safety materials drivers, the inclusion of new content in the training of passenger drivers relating to the transport of disabled persons and safety in the movement of level crossings. We also have the strengthening of measures to promote training using information and communication technology tools — today, they are very important in the face of the situation we are living in — and also simplification and administrative disbursation measures. These are the essential aspects of the legislative decree which is in question changing and whose legislative authorization we need, which we are grateful for now. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u23	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr Carlos Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u24	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This legislative authorization proposes the transposition of a directive on the qualification and training of drivers of road vehicles concerned with the transport of goods and passengers. The qualification and vocational training of drivers is also linked to the application of measures to improve transport safety and to the immediate need for measures leading to a drastic reduction in the number of deaths and serious injuries in road accidents. As regards the transposition of the directive, there is little more to be said. We agree, essentially, with the bill. But there are related issues in this debate that concern us, and from this point of view, the government has done very little. I am referring to matters related to road safety and road safety, with the energy transition, associated with the need for a drastic reduction in greenhouse gas emissions, and also with smooth mobility. With regard to road safety and road fatality, Portugal signed a set of targets up to 2050, with intermediate objectives within the European Union. Moreover, at this horizon of 2011 - 2020, this objective was due to a 50% reduction in the number of road casualties compared to 2010. Unfortunately, if we exclude this year of 2020, the year of the pandemic, the evolution between 2016 and 2019 was absolutely catastrophic, with considerable annual growth in the numbers of fatal victims and serious injuries, when the compromise was the reduction of 50 %. Despite the propaganda being carried out, the government is slow to adopt genuine measures and actions of education, training and supervision that strengthen the culture of road safety. And when I say this, it is not in vain: who does not remember the words of Minister Eduardo Cabrito, who, when confronted with the disastrous numbers of increasing road sinequality, announced that this problem was solved by blocking the use of mobile phones in the highways, or by creating a drone squad, or by imposing a maximum speed limit of 30 km in urban traffic? For this government, whenever there is a problem there is a press conference and immediately a series of air measures is launched, without any previous reflection, without any study and no planning. Then what happens? Nothing! [[PSD applause.]] But accidents continue to occur and the loss of human lives will not increase, with severe losses to society as a whole. Moreover, the negative impact of road-trafficking — these are government figures — is EUR 2, EUR 3 billion per year, i.e. 1, 2 % of GDP ( gross domestic product ). The PSD therefore recommends that the Government, instead of advertising, work seriously at the level of legislation, supervision and measures to calm traffic. There are also new concepts of sustainable mobility, which are also advocated by this government, as well as public policies that promote and encourage them. There is a strong social and scientific consensus on the benefits of the use of bicycles, in environmental, climate, of traffic congestion and public health. in these circumstances, special attention should be paid to vulnerable users, such as pedestrians, cyclists and motorcyclists, reinforcing their protection, because accident statistics with these are particularly disturbing. The Assembly of the Republic, Mr. Government members made important decisions in 2014 on the Road Code, in particular on the protection of vulnerable users. It happens that this government has been in office for five years and it takes time to regulate situations such as failure to comply with the rules of excess cyclists, occupation of the adjacent route, the minimum lateral distance of 1, 5 m. Therefore, the PSD asks: when will the revision and publication of the traffic signaling regulation include the specific signage to protect pedestrians and bike drivers and alert to the need for responsible behaviour by car drivers? By the way, when is the inclusion of the theme of education for road citizenship in school curricula and in obtaining the driving licence? Educating, training and fulfilling are basic pillars of a true and responsible road safety culture. Only in this way is it possible to improve the behaviour of the various users on the road. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u25	Mr João Gonçalves Pereira has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u26	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State : We are before the transposition of a directive which is to review and amend the legal regime of heavy goods and passenger vehicles drivers. We follow what is proposed and we also recognize the freedom of access and the exercise of the profession itself, as well as the exercise of the free private initiative, which is underlined in this same directive and in this bill. This legislative authorisation shall include the definition of the European standard, training of foreign drivers, the revision of the requirements of the training institutions and the certification process and the allocation of new competences to the ICT ( Institute for Mobility and Transport ). Therefore, we could not agree more, since, by increasing qualification and promoting training itself, we will surely be contributing to increasing road safety and reducing the number of fatalities in road accidents. But in this respect it is also fair to acknowledge — and this must be said, as has already been done in this debate — that there is more to be done, because what we have done is still beyond what we should do, particularly in the field of awareness raising and training. We must begin precisely by the younger layers, insofar as it is from the beginning that this culture of road safety must exist, alerting us to the dangers and risks that exist on the road. In addition, in view of the new modes of mobility that we are facing today in our cities, this implies a new commitment and a new strategy. When we have a pawn in joint with the car, in joint with the bike, in joint with the troutinte, in joint with the motorcycle and we realize that these new modes of mobility are not properly articulated and integrated into the cities themselves and that, in addition, its users are not properly alerted to the potential risks, with this, we will, as is evident, be promoting greater sinequality and a greater number of fatal victims in accidents on our roads. Therefore, Mr. Secretary of State, there is much to do! The directive is important, this bill is important, of course, but there is a long way to go about mobility, raising awareness and reducing the number of deaths on our roads and cities. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u27	For an intervention, Mr André Pinotes Batista has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u28	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Secretary of State for Infrastructure, Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs: In recent years, the Government and the Assembly of the Republic have made a remarkable effort to implement the European directives on national law in a timely and relevant manner. In this regard, let me point out that Portugal, in accordance with the European Commission's assessment, has operated, and I quote « a remarkable reversal, going from one of the Member States with a greater deficit of transpositions to one of the most compulsors, without meaning any sacrifice of their legislative autonomy». Thus, if I may allow this note, Mr. João Gonçalves Pereira, of the CDS, contrary to what I said when those who were supposed to be late, it is good to note that in the time of the Government of V.E., a time when no transpositions were made, it was not a delay,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u29	I didn't talk late! That's a cartilage!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u30	...but rather of repeated delays and failures, because those who do not do do do not delay, does not realize. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs. Members, as part of the legislative initiative that we are now discussing, it is important to note that these delays, whether they exist or are repeated and continued, could lead to harmful consequences for Portugal, which will not happen with this initiative. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, we are here today for the purpose of discussing Bill No 58 / XIV / 2. the, on the initiative of the Government, which authorises the same legislation in the field of the qualification and training of drivers of certain road vehicles affecting the transport of goods and passengers, transposing Directive ( EU ) 2018 / 645, mentioned above. In this regard, it is very important that we also highlight the position taken by the Democratic Social Party here, by the voice always unformed, but often mistaken, by Mr Carlos Silva. They spoke about road safety, an important issue, but that is not what we are discussing today. Surely the Secretary of State is sensitive to this matter, as the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group is too, but we do not fail to notice that they were wrong in the debate, because that is not what it is scheduled for. Nevertheless, we do not fail to say that this is also our concern and that much has been done in the last two governments on this subject. But they also talked about signage, pedestrians, cyclists—it seems to me! — they talked about education for citizenship, which would give a whole other debate, which is so uncomfortable,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u31	It's okay, then! There's no problem!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u32	... there was just no word for the drivers. It remains remarkable that the PSD is present here today, agreeing with what we bring, agreeing with the government initiative, talking about everything but what we are talking about, and forgetting only about the drivers, who are affected. But finally, drivers can take their illusions out. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As has already been explored, and in the matter of the competence of this House, the Government, and most of the time, under the provisions of the Constitution, has come here to apply for authorisation. However, we want to leave a word in particular for drivers, because we would not be able to make a reference to the thousands of men and women in this sector, who play such an indispensable role in the functioning of our economy and who, in particular in the most demanding moments of the pandemic we have gone through, have allowed those who have not yet had this consciousness to realize the role played by their role. Of course, the legislative initiative we are discussing today, in order to qualify and strengthen certifications, to be sure that access to the profession is well regulated, among other matters, is also the guarantee that they can make that contribution. I recall that it was precisely these men and women who allowed the fuel distribution establishments to be supplied, that allowed our trade to be supplied, that allowed the distribution to have stocks that would meet the needs at the most acute moments of the pandemic, that allowed the continued flow of goods essential to our industry's work. All this to say that these were the men and women who did not stop Portugal to continue moving as well. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group extends its public recognition. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Dear colleagues, let me conclude by saying that this is not just a change in the legal framework or a mere parliamentary pro-formity. Once approved, we believe that this is an initiative that will enable greater quality in the framework governing the general system of vocational qualification and certification of training institutions, as has already been explored in several areas, ranging from improving training content to improving safety training in level crossings, including simplification, deburocratization and dematerialization measures, among others mentioned above. In view of the above, because we consider this to be an articulation that will improve the quality of the work done and also road safety, as we have already said, for all this, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will vote in favour of this proposal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u33	For an intervention, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u34	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, there is a previous issue that we cannot fail to mention. The subjects we are discussing are not technical and administrative details of blind transposition of directives or of neutral harmonisation of legislation, nor the legislative process in the Assembly of the Republic is a bureaucratic act, indifferent to the debate and to the contributions, from the sectors to which it is intended and from the workers who see changes in the conditions in which they exercise their profession. The follow-up process in which this matter is dealt with in the Assembly of the Republic is justified by the Government, as we have heard recently, with the concern of arriving on 1 January and starting with the Portuguese Presidency of the Council of the European Union with the clear fact sheet on the transposition of directives. It is a weak excuse, when the matter in question has to do with rights, freedoms and guarantees and with the conditions under which the driver's profession in the road transport of passengers or goods is to be accessed and practised. This is where the fundamental problem of this proposal and the directive itself, within the framework of the policies imposed by the European Union: one thing is freedom of movement or the right to work without discrimination or prejudice on grounds of nationality or any other criterion; another thing is to open the door even further to deregulation, liberalisation, lowering the scope of control and ensuring safety conditions in the transport sector, even if more requirements exist for drivers trained in Portugal. And these are not related matters, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, these are central issues, from now on for road safety. On the other hand, it is not surprising that, in relation to the Government's proposal, the PSD and the CDS express their total agreement, so that they will even look for the Road Code and the trotinets to spend time. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, the problem of training, professional valorisation, stability, work and the lives of drivers and their working conditions is a central problem, and it is not opening the door to social dumping, to the mobilization of quotas by multinationals, such as nomads to the convenience of employers, who will answer and solve the problems, including the lack of drivers in Portugal, have long been identified. If we find that drivers, in the context of automatic recognition between Member States of the European Union, are confronted with a situation of occupational threat and their future, of unfair competition not only between companies but between labour quotas, then serious concerns arise about the future. When the Government points out and the PSD and CDS agree and converge towards the continuity of a training and certification system, essentially based on the so-called 'private initiative', with the State delegating, essentially, its competences in this area to the market, concerns remain, which are emphasized in the face of past experience so far. It is also found that drivers trained in Portugal, certified in Portugal, are faced with more requirements for their knowledge and training and, however, the door to other types of quotas and other types of certifications from other Member States, which we do not know or control from a concrete point of view - we assume that it will be done well - and that is unacceptable, Mr Secretary of State, as you understand, certainly. The drivers who have stayed in layoff with cuts in wages, some of whom are still in that condition, drivers who, with this bill, face new threats do not go there with praise or tribute, Mr. what they really need is respect and consideration for their rights and a general increase in wages, they do not need social dumping and are faced with new threats, such as this. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u35	For an intervention, Mrs Isabel Pires has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u36	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: First of all, I would like to congratulate the Secretary of State on the presentation of the transposition of this directive, which, apparently and from a more generic point of view, merely intends to harmonise in some way issues relating to the training of drivers of the European Union, but which also refers to matters related to road safety. However, and considering how this document is in the Assembly of the Republic, we have some concerns that we cannot fail to mention, because we realize that it would be relevant to have a period of public discussion that would allow us to perceive, in particular from the point of view of workers' representative organisations and structures, the opinion and reflections on this matter. Nor is it too much to remember — and I believe that everyone in this Parliament will be reminded of this — some discussions, in past legislatures, on transposition of directives, in particular as regards drivers, their training and also the organisation of the transport sector itself. Therefore, we are concerned that we are currently starting a process that has not yet been debated, particularly by the workers, who have been most affected by these transpositions of directives, when others of the claims of the sector have not been answered. Therefore, the question we want to leave to the Government at the moment is whether it is in fact available for a period of public consultation, which takes into account the concerns of the representative structures of workers, because I believe we cannot repeat the processes we had before with regard to the transposition of European directives which have suffered great damage to these professionals. So, this is the subject, we wanted to leave this issue, and we are sure that on the left block side we will be engaged in the debate of all possible solutions, with the focus on the part of the workers, in order to prevent problems such as those that happened before happen again, allowing to protect those who work in this sector. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u37	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr Carlos Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u38	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Bruno Dias: The central issue, indeed, has to do with the drivers, which we all welcome, and therefore follow the directive and the bill. The other subjects were related, but they were very important subjects for the economy as a whole and for society. Mr Andre Pinotes Batista — I thought he had already left but, after all, he is still here — meeting deadlines in the circumstances in which this directive appears, it is easy. In other words, the directive enters September, is discussed today and is voted in general, in speciality and in global final vote; this is easy. But now I leave a question to the government. Since he says we haven't talked about the directive, I'll take advantage of it to speak now, more quietly. Mr Secretary of State, it is important to clarify that procedures have taken on the matter of consultation with entities, and if this has occurred, since the statement of reasons does not refer to it and the existence of public consultation procedures is legally and legally binding. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u39	You have the floor, for an intervention, since you still have time available, Mr André Pinotes Batista.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u40	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Carlos Silva: I would never leave. I like listening so much! I often don't understand the things you say, because it's not easy,... [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u41	...but I really like to hear it. And it was very important, Mr President, that the PS intervention, which together with the PCP and the Block were the parties that at least made a reference to these professionals and that allowed the PSD to discuss this matter for 56 seconds. Still, we have not heard him an idea, a word, or a recognition to the professionals in this sector. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u42	I believe that there are no further entries from the parliamentary groups to speak on this matter, and I will therefore give the floor to Mr. Secretary of State, Jorge Delgado, to close this debate. Mr Secretary of State, he also has 2 minutes and 4 seconds, to which the last intervention may add 2 minutes of the intervention time for the closure of the debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u43	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I would like to begin by congratulating myself on the fact that, in a general way, we are essentially accepting the proposed law which we have tabled here, which is important for us to continue with the work of implementing the directive. With regard to the comments made here, I leave two or three notes very short, until most of the comments did not have to do with the diploma we brought here. In any case, I would like to say that, from the point of view of the concerns about childlessness, we follow all the concerns mentioned here. The government is committed to this fight. It is an area of activity in which the Ministry of Infrastructure and Housing collaborates and participates but has as its main actor the Ministry of Internal Administration. However, we collaborate actively and are committed. I am referring, in particular, to two aspects where we participate actively. We are, of course, one of the important parts of PENSE 2020 ( National Road Safety Strategic Plan ), which is under way with a set of measures aimed at reducing sinality and which has had a rather in line with what was planned. On the other hand, we have the infrastructures of Portugal, which is responsible for preserving national roads, which in fact has important and coherent work in maintaining our road infrastructures. I would add that, with regard to this diploma, and this also serves to respond to the concerns of Mr Bruno Dias, the training obligations in the area of road safety are strengthened. Therefore, from the point of view of the training of drivers themselves, there is a very direct and very relevant aspect here. He welcomed the comment made by Mr Pinotes, in the sense that he stressed — and he wanted to associate me with this emphasis — the importance of the role of drivers in the whole process we had here, and we are having, during this pandemic. For March and April, in fact, they were essential. at a time when we were all scared and without knowing very well how to deal with all this, they were essential, they were available and ready to cooperate with all entities and with the government, to ensure the distribution of essential goods and to ensure that our society was still working, which is worthy of registration. In conclusion, and with regard to the transposition of the Directive, IMT ( Institute for Mobility and Transport ) has already consulted the whole sector, including trade unions, and therefore we have the contributions and opinions of the whole sector on this matter. I shall finish as I began by congratulating myself on the widespread acceptance of the proposal we are bringing here. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u44	We will move on to the third point of the order of business, which is the general assessment of the Bill No 570 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Transitional imposition of the mandatory use of mask in public spaces. To present this bill, you have the floor, for an intervention, Mr Luís Marques Guedes.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u45	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are living a critical moment in the fight against the devastating effects of the pandemic. Devasters for the health and life of the most fragile, the most unprotected, and those for whom the most advanced age entails a natural greater vulnerability. Devasters for public health, as a whole, with the progressive failure of response to pathologie detection and treatment of non-COVID-19 diseases. Devasters for the National Health Service ( SNS), with two hundred thousand surgeries and eight million consultations to be carried out,... [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u46	... a terrible picture in which the highest national authorities pretend not to see the imminent collapse. Devasters for economic activity and employment, with an inexorable dominating effect, in which the paralysis, or the tremendous difficulties of survival of the initially desolated sectors, on a daily basis, spreads and leaves no immunity. Devastators for social and personal balances, suffering from the crisis that deepens in social, family and affective relations, structural pillars of our life in common. It's a critical moment we're going to win, because we have to win. But for that, we need clarity, truth, and trust. Do not infantilize the Portuguese with the bacoca conversation of the Portuguese miracle;... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u47	... do not punish them with the ideological prejudice of the omnipotence of the public health service; do not threaten them with authoritarian drifts that are no more than amusing maneuvers to whiten out the inaction, or disorientation, of those who hold authority; do not confuse them with successive zigzags — all at home, all to the beach; all outside the churches and cemeteries, all for political demonstrations and events;... [[Congrats from the PSD and the CDS-PP Member João Pinho de Almeida.]] ... all prevent with the flu vaccine and all community pharmacies, at the end of October, in the perfect uncertainty of the response to needs. So nobody takes you seriously. Eight months have passed since the beginning of this pandemic. We need to have, and we don't have, more people with a family doctor, crucial in this time of risks and uncertainties. We need to have, and we don't have, more intensive professionals, to be able to operationalize more intensive care beds. We need to have, and we still do not have, a consolidated plan that involves all the installed, public, private and social capacity to face this autumn/winter. We need to have, and we still do not have, a separation between the establishments that respond to COVID-19 disease and those that respond to all other diseases, the only way to transmit safety and trust to those who need health care. We need to have, and we have not, effective testing capacity, systematic and routine, at risk sites, and an effective rapid intervention capacity, which prevents the uncontrollability of the contamination networks and the escalation of the infections we have seen. We need to, sirs. Members, and we have not had leadership by example, coherent and not erratic, reliable and not based on propaganda. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u48	Some will say that we should not accentuate the failures, denounce the omissions and delays that are taking place, because this fosters collective fear and depression. Within the bounds of ridicule, some in power even accuse those who do so of lack of patriotism. Absent, by decorum, to qualify these, I want to express our frontal disagreement with those. The main weapon in this fight is trust and it only acquires if we tell people the truth: assuming failures, to correct them,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u49	... recognizing delays, in order to recover them, and in penitentiating ourselves for omissions, in order not to perpetuate them. The question of the use of masks for self-protection and protection of others is a paradigmatic example of this. They resisted the authorities for months to their usefulness; they later recognized this error and recommended their use in public spaces because of the pressure of the PSD. [[All right!]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u50	They are now given evidence of their necessary obligation in all public spaces and roads. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a matter of stoning common sense, whose recognition is only late. The proposal we present seeks to safeguard the situations in which a mandatory imposition would be disproportionate and meets objective differences that advise, in respect of this proportionality, adequate modulation of the measure in each of the autonomous regions. More than doing so in the name of its autonomy, which we very much value, it is to be able to interpret the singularity of the situation that is being observed in each region, responsibility which, of course, must belong to its own organs. Finally, we propose that this imposition should have a deadline, not indefinitely extending, without, of course, prejudice to its renewal or revocation, if reality advises it. A final word for the urgency of this measure. I propose that we do today its successive vote, in general, on speciality and overall finality, so that it may be sent without delay for the promulgation of Mr President of the Republic. I believe that, even without the law, a vast majority of people are already adopting the use of this protection. But, as long as it is not possible to impose this obligation on all, without exception, the gain of this measure will, of course, be frustrated. You've lost too much time. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u51	Mr João Oliveira has now created a problem at the Bureau because he had applied for a question to Mr Luís Marques Guedes, who clearly has no time to answer, and at the same time has entered into an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u52	Mr President, the question is very simple, so I am available to give 30 seconds of the CFP's intervention time so that the PSD can respond to it, since the answer will also be brief.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u53	Mr President, the 30 seconds do not solve the problem, because you have spent more than that, and therefore, even if you give it 30 seconds, it continues with time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u54	Mr President, we really want to ask the question.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u55	Mr. João Oliveira, as you are registered to intervene next, and as the PSD will have two minutes, in the end, to intervene, the suggestion of the Bureau is that it should include the question in your speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u56	Mr President, it is even important for the debate to be able to ask the question and obtain clarification, so the CFP provides one minute of its intervention time to the PSD in order to obtain the answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u57	Mr President, as the minute is yours, you have the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u58	Mr President, Mr Marques Guedes, before going into further discussion that needs to be done, we really wanted to ask a very specific question and that is important when we are dealing with the determination of an obligation. I wanted to understand exactly what is the physical distance recommended by the health authorities that the PSD considers.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u59	Since it was handed over 1 minute to the PSD, you have the floor to answer, Mr Luís Marques Guedes.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u60	Mr President, Mr João Oliveira, thank you for giving up time. Mr. Deputies, the PSD is not the health authority. The time to define is for the health authorities themselves to define.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u61	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr João Oliveira.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u62	Mr President, in fact, he hoped that the time allocated to the PSD could have been used for a more concrete answer. [[PSD protests.]] But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I think the answer that was given... [[PSD protests.]] I was hoping that they would deal with this issue with the seriousness it deserves. The answer given, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it does indeed reveal a difficulty with which the Assembly of the Republic is facing today. We can't ignore it! We are discussing an initiative by the PSD to create an obligation which is associated with the application of a sanction, particularly counter-order, which is not clearly defined in the PSD project, will be the responsibility of third parties to regulate. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the problem is that when we define an obligation, it must be clearly defined. The requirements of this obligation, the criteria for the application of this obligation and the supervision necessary to verify compliance with that obligation must be clearly defined. I mean, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have recovered, for this debate, what we said last week about the Government's bill, which has been withdrawn in the meantime. We have no fundamental objection to the determination of the mandatory use of masks in contexts in which it is indeed revealed — especially because of the assessment made by the health authorities — as a relevant element for the prevention of the epidemic and for the prevention of infection. We have no objection to this. But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, as we have already said last week, it is necessary to define such an obligation clearly and, above all, in conditions that citizens can understand exactly what the rules they have to observe in each circumstance and, above all, perhaps even more important than that, the conditions under which the forces that have responsibility for monitoring this obligation can do so without any doubt, without margins for discretion, without margins for abuse of power. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to raise an example so as not to go too far. This is the garden that we have next to the space of the Assembly of the Republic, which is a public space, leisure and public traffic. The fact is that the use of this space by citizens, under different circumstances, may require the verification of different distances recommended by the health authorities. The rules set out in the Social Distance Manual of the Directorate-General for Health provide that "people shall maintain, where possible, a distance of more than two metres from the other persons". But then there are specific rules, determined, for example, for the circumstance in which physical activities are developed in spaces exactly identical to those in which we circulate. As a result of the exercise of this physical activity, it determines Guideline No 30/ 2020 — in fact it is in this direction — that, in some circumstances and even in open spaces, there is another distance to be respected. Our problem, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is the creation of an obligation without being clear, in accordance with that obligation, the conditions and criteria in which it must be observed, so that the entities responsible for its supervision themselves can act properly. We have already said that last week, about the Government's proposal, and I say - today, about the PSD initiative. There are other doubts we have.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u63	Mr President, your time has already been greatly exceeded.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u64	I conclude, Mr. President. Concepts such as 'distinguishment that is impracticable' are not a given concept, it is not a good solution to impose an obligation and it was necessary that the very incompatibility with the nature of the activities should be more realized. Mr President, Mr. Luís Marques Guedes, I conclude by saying that my question had no trace but in fact had the objective of clarifying the intention of the PSD. It seems to us that, under these conditions, we cannot vote in favour of the proposal presented by the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u65	Mr. Deputies, you must conclude!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u66	It is not created the conditions which will enable us to safely say that a requirement is determined, in terms in which it can be applied, without creating a social overhaul. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u67	Mrs. Ana Rita Bessa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u68	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The coronary virus epidemic is also a test of how we exercise our citizenship and therefore all the decisions we make should be well thought-out. If we make the wrong choices or fail in the right choices, we can be yielding to our freedom, assuming that it is the only way to protect health. Therefore, moments such as these are so sensitive, important and significant and cannot be thought and proposed mild-minded obligations to feel the pulse or to provoke fans, as it seems to have been the case of the government in the agenda that it has just withdrawn, after being criticized and defeated even by its own parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u69	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u70	This should not be done because, besides, in time of pandemic and with the wear it has brought, it is important to mobilize and not divide or discredit. Each has, in fact, its role and the government also has it, being as important as our individual behaviour. From that point on, and first of all, it is up to the government to make decisions on our health system, in the best interests of the citizens, expanding the capacity of the SNS, but extending to all, COVID and non-COVID patients, the capacity of the private and social sector, through contractualization, so that access to health is not necessarily limited to all Portuguese. It would also have helped the government in good time to increase the ability and agility of the screening to contain effective contagios. And, yes, it is up to each one to take care of the health and to protect those around him. It is in this dimension that the PSD project — now only the PSD — on the transitional imposition of mask use. The PSD project, although it has already been revised twice in our positive understanding, deserves us some considerations and reservations, in line with those presented by the Parliamentary Group of the Portuguese Communist Party. The indetermination of the concept of « distancement », although defined by DGS ( Directorate-General for Health ), is one of these, as well as the indetermination of activities for which there is no use, and we deserve to be concerned when the obligation and the imposition of fines are at issue. Still, with the awareness of what we are obliging each one to, in a transitional and exceptional concession preserved in the letter of the bill and in the light of the precautionary principle in the protection of public health, the CDS will positively follow this project. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u71	Mr. Moisés Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u72	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On this subject, I would like to point out three key points. The first is the finding of the tactical retreat, which we hope will be a tacit abandonment, the wonderful idea of the obligation to download and use an application and, more than that, the idea of having the contents of our mobile phones controlled by security forces. It was an idea that actually did not coincide with the rule of law, an authoritarian and disproportionate idea and, in fact, counterproductive, because it would place citizens against supposedly public health measures and therefore would be even a disincentive to the application and implementation of these and other effective public health measures. The second point has to do with the use of masks. Yes, they can and should be used, they protect each and every one of us, but, more important than that, they potentially protect the other people with whom we cross.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u73	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u74	Therefore, masks can and should be used in public spaces, as currently happens in closed public spaces. Considering the evolution of the epidemic in Portugal and the most recent numbers, yes, they can and should also be used in public outdoor spaces, where there is more population concentration. But the truth is that the project presented by the PSD Parliamentary Group is too based on this logic of obligation, supervision, counter-ordination. It seems to us that it should be balanced in another logic, that it would be more for awareness, for communication to the population and for the provision of masks to the population. Many people already use masks on the public street, outdoors, voluntarily, and still well. But why do they do it? Why is there an obligation? No, because this one doesn't exist yet. It is because there is communication and people realize that it is important to use masks in those spaces, to protect themselves and others. Therefore, it seems to us that if we want there to be adherence to this behavior, that of the use of masks, there must be measures to raise awareness, to communicate correctly to the population and also to ensure access to these equipment. How many and how many of us do we know of people who certainly reuse the same masks indefinitely until they are almost no longer effective? Now, we have to ensure that these people have access to individual protective equipment in order to adopt this behavior. For this reason, the Left Block will present proposals for amendments to the PSD bill that will, in this sense, address the communication and awareness of the population, the primary and priority role of the security forces in the pedagogy and not in the application of surveillance with a view to counter-ordinations. We also propose the free provision, in public spaces, to the entire population, of masks and personal protective equipment. We will now introduce these proposals of speciality. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I conclude by saying that it is important that there are, of course, public health measures, but it is also important that people be involved in the communication of these measures, in order to join them voluntarily. To place the State against persons and to place mandatory measures in the face of the lack of communication or awareness of such measures may have counterproductive effects which should be avoided. The proposed amendments to this PSD project that the Left Block will present are a way to avoid these counterproductive effects. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u75	Before giving the floor to the next Member, I believe that there is a procedural problem that we should solve. We have been alerted by the services to the fact that the rule provides that the scheduler has 2 minutes at the end. It turns out that the author of this agenda was the government which, however, withdrew its proposal, only to discuss the PSD bill. It is my understanding that it has all the logic that, by analogy, we consider that, since this is the only project under discussion, the PSD has these 2 minutes at the end of the debate. So I raise the question of whether there is any opposition in the House to this form. Mr Adam Silva had asked for the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u76	Mr President, you really don't have to intervene anymore. I fully agree with you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u77	Thank you very much, Mr. You have the floor, then, Mrs Mariana Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u78	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Since March we live in pandemic mode. The measures will adapt to their evolution, to the conditions of the National Health Service, to the knowledge of the virus and to the adequacy of individual and collective behaviors, so that we can all return to the normality of the days as safely as possible. But after the confinement, the defination and the summer vacations, it came again at a time when high numbers, although expected, demand new adjustments. In addition to the declaration of the state of calamity, which is already seeking to condition some behaviors, the proposal arises to be mandatory to use the mask on the street whenever it is not possible to maintain the physical distance that is required. The Greens believe that it is necessary to insist on health safety measures in order to make the way forward to dealing with this disease that is still unknown. We speak of the respiratory label, of the importance of washing hands frequently, of not touching the eyes, the mouth and the nose and, in addition to these measures that the populations are assimilated, we also talk of the physical distance in the relationship with others, which we want to keep. We also talk about the way the mask is used, whenever it is considered recommended and everyone understands its usefulness. Since the beginning of the measures that have been taken, the Greens have always followed the legislative decisions that were technically supported by the health authorities. Visiting the website of DGS, which will be the most used instrument by the population, the mandatory use of masks on the street as provided for in the bill that the PSD presents to us today, is not included in any of the guidelines. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have serious doubts that the Assembly of the Republic should force the Portuguese to use a form of protection without having any guidance or basis from the health authorities. On the other hand, this project leaves so many loose ends that it can bring the instability and arbitraryness of the authorities. Who will assess whether or not there are conditions for walking on the street without a mask? Will it be for the interpretation of each security officer? The law, Mrs. Members, in order to be respected, must be clear and must not be subject to casuistic interpretation. For these reasons we will not vote in favour of the project that the PSD brings to the debate today to resolve the mess in which the government went last week, because as Mr Marques Guedes of the PSD said very well, I cannot help but say that the PSD is no health authority. Finally, we must remember the difficulties that several Portuguese people face on a daily basis and that could make the difference when the goal is to end the contagio chains: more housing, more and better public transport, more school transport, more working conditions in the companies, more airing in the classrooms, which will be possible only with smaller classes, more health professionals and more means for the National Health Service. Here you go, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, these are the priorities we should be concerned about. [[Congrats from the CFP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u79	For an intervention, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u80	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Since March 2nd, the first positive case of COVID-19 has been detected, a lot has changed and much has been learned in the fight against the pandemic. It changed the policy of closing schools, because it was learned that the cost for young people was too high; it changed the use of the state of emergency, because it was learned that it would kill the economy; it changed the sharing of information at the meetings of Infarmed (National Medicine and Health Products Authority, I.P. ) because the government learned that these meetings were a sign of their own disorientation. But there were two things that did not change and show that almost eight months later the government learned nothing: it did not change the fact that further action was taken without any knowledge of the scientific data on which they were based and did not change the erratic nature of the DGS guidelines. I don't have time to list them all, just to remember that some said about visits to the elderly, planes, reals, « Avantes! », tourists, football, pregnant women and minors at risk. There were dozens of inconsistent, confusing or arbitrary guidelines, but the most notorious of all concerns the use of masks. First they gave a false sense of security; then they were recommended; then they were mandatory in certain closed spaces, and now they ask us to make them compulsory on the public road. The government threw the first stone and then hid his hand. But the PSD has taken the testimonial and presents a proposal that is based precisely on such erratic DGS guidelines, a proposal that does not even attempt to substantiate scientific or empirically, a proposal that is difficult to understand and impossible to control. It does not count on the Liberal Initiative to enable rough measures that use disorientation and fear to justify new limits to individual freedoms.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u81	Mrs Bebiana Cunha has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u82	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, we began to show our appreciation for the Government's retreat with regard to the discussion of the STAYAWAYCOVID application. With regard to this subject which we are discussing here, in particular, I would like to recall the following: the NAP has always had a position that favours prevention. We have presented several proposals in this regard, since the strengthening of public health professionals, the implementation and improvement of epidemiological surveillance mechanisms at the borders, the strengthening of prevention measures in educational contexts and social equipment. We have always focused our proposals on what prevention should be. We all know that in autumn and winter there are additional measures that need to be taken, but if there is no consistency in the information and the measures defined to install-CL, there will be a climate of discrediting and tiredness. We are now running against injury at this stage, and therefore the path to the use of masks in a more permanent way may seem more difficult, requires more discipline, and what individual freedoms and guarantees are not only the only element of this equation. We are talking here about the well-being of all and of all, in a relationship that is not symbiosis but is not competitive either. We understand that this is from those times when the common good and the individual good must be allied, in which my freedom cannot be at the expense of endangering the life of the other, although we understand that it was in the prevention that everything should have been played. But in doubt, our health is protected and the health of others is protected. We understand the need for mask use in public spaces, which were already a public health requirement in closed spaces, when, and only in such situations, there are no conditions of health safety at the level of recommended distance between people. We also understand that the proposal that is brought here provides for a time, which has, in fact, been changed in the proposals that are giving entry, which has already passed from 120 to 90 days and possibly will still move towards a greater reduction of time, but, in the perspective of the NAP, this period should not be defined and the law should enter into force, being repealed when the epidemiological situation thus justifies it. What is also fundamental in ensuring the implementation of a law is that the Government does its part, either in terms of strengthening transport, or in terms of clear and consistent information that reaches Portuguese and Portuguese, so that measures such as these are understood, accepted, are not imposed, and still take a step towards correct discarding masks and betting on reusable masks, which, as we know, is also becoming a real environmental problem. [[In the meantime, President Eduardo Ferro Rodrigues took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u83	Good morning, everyone. You now have the floor for an intervention by the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr José Magalhães.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u84	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The legislative initiatives, first of the government, after the PSD, lead the Assembly of the Republic to discuss today the extension of the duty to wear masks. He already exists, created by decree-law, and will now be extended. We have that power, the question is whether it is time to use it. As for us, the answer to this question must be given with radical honesty. The radical honesty is to tell citizens that science knows more today than it did in February, but much less than it will know in the future. The worst thing political decision-makers can do is try to appear before citizens as enlightened and omniscient beings, health superauthorities who confess themselves or, on the contrary, as President Trump does, they declare themselves superior to health authorities. The fact is that the pandemic has shown that in this twenty-first century there are no effective global coordination mechanisms — the UN (United Nations) is making limited efforts, our European region would need to be more than it is in health matters. The pandemic is not dominated in any of the countries of the European Union, on the contrary, the numbers already mentioned here that translate the growth of infected people are impressive and in ascending curve. These numbers must be interpreted with care and intelligence, because there are asymptomatic people, without health problems, and men and women whose health status is especially affected by risk factors. The great mistake — and this is up to us, political decision-makers — would be to add to the plague of the pandemic the paralysis of those who can and must make decisions, sometimes under imperfect or insufficient conditions. Worse than that, in fact, it would be to have a debate with fracturing polarization, as happens tragically at this time in the United States or Brazil. This has not been the case in Portugal. The perfect world, which some imagine, does not exist. There is the attempt and error, there is the scientific uncertainty, there is the step-by-step progression. For our part, we don't feed controversy that undermines trust. Sometimes we dialogue with perfect beings, but still well, we are able to do. And there is, of course, the lucidity of the next day: « this measure should have come before», « this should have been well thought out and was not». And it is clear that when this comes from people who had the legislative initiative, it does not impress us or piss us off especially. We will also legislate without absolute certainty and without unanimous scientific chorus in favour of the proposals under discussion. We know that the emergence of innovation on means of combating COVID will allow in the near future masks with sensors that measure body temperature, heart rhythm, blood pressure and the level of oxygen in the blood. I see your interest, but don't look for them in the pharmacy because they're not yet tested and marketed. Radical honesty, I recall again, obliges three warnings to be made: first, the Government has approved, and is implementing, a wide range of restrictive measures of freedom of movement, with geographical restrictions and preventing events. They're meant to take it seriously, no one can guarantee that it doesn't have to be extended. in this context, masks are a complementary medium and only a complementary medium, no more than this. No one should expect miracles. According to notice, the measure is appropriate, necessary and proportionate, passing the indispensable constitutionality test. We are not here to approve unconstitutional solutions and the « horse mackerel» must be subjected to this essential test. The form of law is the right—in fact, it is the only right—to impose duties that limit freedoms, and this parliamentary group assumes this notion with great constitutional meaning. Third warning, in these months, the Portuguese learned a lot about masks and the country gained a production capacity that had not been months. In addition, if you go to the site of Citeve ( Centre Tecnologique das Industrias Textiles e dos Vestuario de Portugal ), you will see the huge list of masks and the entities that produce them in Portugal. And they just don't export them anymore because there are certification mechanisms and nationalist practices that require recertification in the countries where the masks are exported. The initiative does not contain a definition of what it is and what is not a mask. There are three types: respirators for medical personnel, non-surgical masks, community masks or social use. In the wording that is, obviously, the breathing masks are not mandatory, but the others can be used indifferently.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u85	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u86	I conclude, Mr. President. Secondly, the future law will not replace DGS' indications on the need to maintain social distance, hand hygiene, respiratory label and the correct way to use individual protective equipment, in line with the recommendations of WHO ( World Health Organization ). Put the equipment without hygiene your hands, touch the equipment, scratch your eyes, etc. , is to fail the necessary steps.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u87	Mr. Deputies, you really have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u88	I shall conclude, Mr President, even because I am without a mask. We are waiting, Mr. President and Mr. Members, that this measure, duly accompanied, helps the Portuguese to carry out with zeal a duty to protect them and protect us all. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u89	To close this point, Mrs Cládia Bento of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u90	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : End the debate now on the Bill No 570 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ), through which the Parliamentary Group of the Social Democratic Party proposes that the Assembly of the Republic approve the transitional imposition of the mandatory use of mask in public spaces. The epidemiological situation in our country is worsening in a worrying way. We still went over the 3,000 cases per day for the first time yesterday. in this context, the PSD is required not to do anything and wait to see but rather to be in the position of being in the front of the political struggle to the pandemic. Therefore, we present today a legislative initiative, defending the transitional imposition of the mandatory use of mask in public spaces, whenever physical distance is impractical, as part of a comprehensive approach to the containment of the expansion of contagios. As to the problems raised here regarding the definition of distancement and what outdoor activities could be performed without the use of mask, they are already discriminated against through the Directorate-General of Health. in this initiative, unlike the Bill No 62 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ), whose agenda the government has dropped, the PSD has withdrawn the possibility of masks being replaced by visors, since there are no studies demonstrating the effectiveness of the visors in the containment and reduction of the risk of contagions. in this initiative, we, PSD, still refuse other proposals such as the mandatory use of the STAYAWAY COVID application, not only because we consider inadequate but also because they easily provoked the general rejection. With this initiative, we say that it is time to bring together efforts and unite the Portuguese around a common goal, which is to combat the pandemic by SARS-CoV-2. We are all individual and important elements in the fight against the pandemic. The use of the mask is already part of the Portuguese newspaper and only so, all united, will be stronger. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u91	Mrs. Members, concluded the general debate of the Bill No 570 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ), we proceed to the joint discussion, in general, of the Bills Nos 214 / XIV / 1. a ( Citizens) — Postmortem assisted drug treatment, 71 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Amendment to the legal regime of the replacement pregnancy ( Seventh amendment to Law No 32 / 2006 of 26 July ), 223 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Seventh amendment to Law No 32 / 2006 of 26 July extending postmortem insemination situations, 231 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Seventh amendment to Law No. 32 / 2006 of 26 July, increasing from three to five cycles of second-line drug procreation treatments assisted by the National Health Service, 237 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Alter the Assisted Medicine Processing Scheme, allowing post mortem insemination to perform a clearly established parental project ( Seventh amendment to Law No 32 / 2006 of 26 July ), 247 / XIV / 1. a ( NAP) — Ensure access to the pregnancy of replacement, making the seventh amendment to Law No 32 / 2006 of 26 July ( assisted drug procreation) and 572 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Determines the circumstances in which postmortem insemination is permitted and amends Law No 32 / 2006 of 26 July on assisted medicinal product procreation. To open the debate, Mr Moisés Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u92	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, I would like to congratulate the promoters and promoters of this citizen legislative initiative, which gives us the opportunity to have this agenda and this debate which is of greatest importance. There are thousands of women and men who have joined in this legislative initiative to tell us that the law on assisted drug procreation needs to be amended, that it continues to prohibit something which should not prohibit and continues to prevent, in certain cases, the implementation of parental projects which should not prevent. In 2016, in this House, in the Assembly of the Republic, we managed to change the law of assisted drug procreation, so that it would not discriminate on the basis of sexual orientation or civil status, we managed to change this law so that it would allow all women to be allowed access to assisted drug procreation, so that parental projects that were suspended, prevented, banned, often prohibited by mere conservationism of the law could be carried out. But there were things left to do. And that is precisely what those who have joined in a citizen legislative initiative, which is also debated here today in the Assembly of the Republic, have told us that there are things left to do, which must be done now. One example—and I know that the ladies and gentlemen. Members will already know him, but it is always important to bring these examples to the political debate — this is one of the members of a couple who faces a serious illness. The couple, in the face of this disease, whose treatment or the very course of the disease may result in the sterility and infertility of one of the members of the couple, decides to preserve the gamettes of the male member of the couple. Why? Because they already had a defined parental project, they had already decided among themselves that they would like to have a child that would result from the union of the two and, therefore, in the face of this disease, they decided to preserve the gametes to carry out this project in the future. The person dies following this disease. And, despite the desire of the couple and the surviving person to exist, although there is the realization of this established parental project, it will not, after all, be able to be accomplished. Why? Because the law says: “No, they cannot use what they have preserved, after all, they cannot use the gametes they have saved to use at this time.” But why can't they, if there was a parental project between the two people and if the surviving person wants to carry out that parental project? Why, if it was for this that genetic material was preserved? Oh, my God! Why does the woman have to be pushed into a waiting list for more than a year to be able to access assisted reproductive techniques, using an anonymous donor's gamétas, when she had finally decided with her partner to preserve these gadgets to use in the future? There is no answer for these reasons, because there is no reason for these reasons. Yes, ladies and gentlemen. Members, a violence, a violence against the surviving partner of this couple, is a violence that is made to the parental project that was freely constituted. It is necessary, as we are warned, to make changes to the law of assisted drug procreation. And we're willing to do it now. For this reason, we also present a bill that goes against what the promoters of the citizen legislative initiative proposes. As we are prepared to make the changes available to the same law as well, to make the pregnancy replacement available again. This is an answer that we owe to many women who hope and despair to access the one that is the only way to realize their maternity project as well. In the past, we have managed to ensure that the regime of the pregnancy of substitution is out of illegality. He's legal and possible today, but he's, as you remember, suspended. It is necessary to bring this regime into line with what was the Constitutional Court's decision in the past. And the Left Block also presents a bill to meet this decision of the Constitutional Court, to make the regime of replacement pregnancy available again, so that it will leave the suspension and so that, here too, parental projects and maternity projects can be realized and no longer postponed. And that's what we're talking about, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. We're talking about letting people carry out the freely established projects. We have nothing else to say but: they must be free to do so. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u93	The next item is Mr Pedro Delgado Alves of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u94	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The legislative initiatives we are discussing today must, in the first place, promoters of the citizens' legislative initiative, which today allowed the agenda of this debate, which are in the galleries and whose courage and determination, allowing us to put this issue back on the agenda, we must first welcome and thank. [[Congrats from PS Members.]] The history of this matter, as mentioned in the previous intervention, is not today. Assisted drug procreation has, over the years, been deepened by the law in force, and this theme in particular, the one that motivates this agenda, i.e., the possibility of post-mortem insemination, has already been the subject of proposals for amendment to the law, submitted by the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group and other parliamentary groups, notably in 2012, 2015 and 2016. Unfortunately, in general, it was not possible to gather the majority necessary to produce this change, which, as we hope to have the opportunity to demonstrate, is revealed by the most obvious justice and linearity, in view of what has already resulted from the law of assisted medicinal procreation. So let's go to the substance. The law, today, already admits the post mortem insemination, so it is already expected that embryo transfer can take place, so it is not an unknown figure, to which the law turned its back on its initial writing. Moreover, when the genetic material comes from an anonymous donor, there is also no obstacle in the law to which this anonymous donor may have died and, therefore, there is also no obstacle to insemination taking place in this context and at that time. That is why, indeed, what we have is a unfortunately arbitrary option of the law, which determines that, because of the insemination procedure not yet at a certain stage of its development, it is not possible to use these assisted reproductive techniques—and this even when there is a common parental project, even when there is a clearly agreed project by both parties. And that is precisely what we want to prevent it from continuing to happen. Unfortunately, there are many and dramatic circumstances that may determine the need to resort to insemination in these contexts: in cases where the collection of genetic material takes place to prevent the occurrence of infertility due to certain treatments and, of course, in the most serious cases, in which the death of the person who provided genetic material may occur because of severe disease that was at the origin of that same collection of genetic material. In essence, this debate is once again the debate about why we have legislation on drug procreation and assisted medicine, why we resort to science in order to achieve the individual freedom of people, the happiness of people, and to ensure the sexual and reproductive health of all those for whom it is within its reach. It is for this personal realization and for this happiness of our fellow citizens that we must develop the law, improve the law and review the law, whenever necessary and, especially, when no third party interests are injured, especially when it is not at stake but the life and future of people who freely choose to make this decision. Of course, we know that the legal issue is not simple, that it will need work in the field of expertise, that there are issues to be guarded, namely ensuring how consent is provided, defining the deadline for decision-making, defining the maximum time limit for insemination, defining how often it is possible to make use of preserved genetic material and, if necessary, verifying the position in the successive plane, which may arise from the appearance of a concept that was not initially defined at the time when the succession is opened. However, in view of the existence of a legislative initiative of citizens and draft laws of the Socialist Party, the Left Block and the Portuguese Communist Party, we believe that it is possible to achieve this result, in the field of specialty, and to have a change of law on this point, at this point where consensus is greater. We know that there are other issues under discussion today, but if legislation can already be adopted in this case, without having to define what is more complex — and I will go there — in terms of the pregnancy of substitution and confidentiality, of course we will be doing our legislative function well. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As for the other draft laws submitted, including those of BE and the NAP, it should be noted that both are in the right direction, in order to deepen the legislation in this area. There are decisions of the Constitutional Court that oblige the legislator to review these issues — and to review them in accordance with which the decisions of the Constitutional Court themselves point to a path. It is true that there have been identification of unconstitutionalities in these two themes, i.e. in the pregnancy of substitution and in the anonymity of donors, but they are not unconstitutionalities insurmountable, rather, it is clear that the Constitutional Court points out the way to balance rights and duties that should be in the definition of this same legal regime. Therefore, it is with the attempt to make this follow-up and to improve the legislation we hope that, in the specialty, it will be possible to take this step, however, knowing that these are two more complex themes and that, perhaps, parliamentary activity will take a little longer. We hope that the remaining debate will be productive and enlightening and we will also have the opportunity to speak on other initiatives under discussion. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u95	Mrs Ana Rita Bessa of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u96	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS presents today a bill proposing an amendment to Law No. 32/2006, in order to increase from three to five cycles of second-line drug-assisted procreation treatments, shared by the SNS, and we insist on this proposal, already repeatedly rejected, for reasons which I am going to detail. Infertility is a problem that, we will all agree, contributes to low birth in Portugal. It is estimated that there are about 300 000 infertile couples, representing about 15 % of the population of reproductive age. The SNS shares to 100 % three cycles of second-line PMA treatments (assisted drug procreation ). However, in most cases the pregnancy rate is quite low compared to the number of treatments performed and one of the main causes indicated is precisely this limit of cycles paid by the SNS. This is because, after the three attempts have been exhausted, the only alternative is to use a private clinic, which is uncomplicated for most families, since each second-line treatment cycle will cost between 5000 and 8000 €. The more opportunities there are, within the age limit provided for in the 39-year and 364-day law, which, it should be noted, the CDS does not intend to change, and the sooner each cycle is started, the greater the possibility of achieving a successful pregnancy. in this sense, it is important that the government take steps to reduce the highest waiting lists that in December 2019 were in about one year, from the moment couples entered the list of the first treatment cycle, and it is necessary to add at this time all the previous ones that take place between consultations, examinations and diagnosis. And I remember that if pregnancy does not occur in the first cycle of treatment, which is frequent, it turns to the waiting list to be able to access the second cycle and then to the third cycle. It's years of waiting, wear and suffering. The current situation therefore generates a great injustice: the waiting times are too long and the times between each cycle also, which leads to the initiation of treatments later, thus reducing the success rate. And many infertile couples will obviously not have financial capacity to continue treatment in the private sector. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, on the ILC (legislative citizen initiative) and the draft laws of the Socialist Party, the Left Block and the PCP, I mean that the CDS is not insensitive to the specific case of Mr.Angela Vieira Ferreira, present here, that I greet, and that gave rise to this legislative initiative of citizens. I know I'm not indifferent. We realize that, in view of the current law of WFP, that the CDS did not approve, there is discrimination — I would say iniquity — here already exposed by the honourable Members. Mr Moisés Ferreira and Mr Pedro Delgado Alves. at the same time that we recognize this discrimination, I repeat, in the light of the current law, and with which we do not agree, we understand that there are other values to be weighed, and that are explained in the opinions of the National Council of Ethics for Life Sciences and the National Council of Assisted Medicine Processing. Presented in this context, the Socialist Party bill is the one that, in our view, would be closer to a balanced legal solution, but on it we maintain heavy reserves: it defines the project to be lawful to insemination with semen of the deceased person or the post mortem transfer of embryo, not clearly distinguishing the two situations, which raise ethical issues that are different and critical to the CDS. The previous condition is the existence of a clearly established parental project in writing, but, contrary to what is done in other countries, it does not oblige a guarantee formalism of this consent, in the form of a will or a public writing, and determines that the post-mortem insemination is lawful after the period considered adjusted to the appropriate weighting of the decision, not basing that decision with minimum and maximum deadlines. A final word regarding the initiatives of the Bloc and the NAP on the pregnancy of substitution. The position of the CDS in this regard is known and has not changed. We do not follow these initiatives! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u97	For an intervention, Mrs Bebiana Cunha from the PAN Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u98	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We now welcome the initiative of these citizens and their citizens, which poses the challenge for us to debate this issue. The current legislation allows a woman, within the scope of WFP, to use the genetic material of an anonymous donor, not knowing if she is alive when performing the procreation technique. But the same principle ceases to apply if the donor is the life partner himself of this woman, someone with whom she shared a life plan, with whom he consciously agreed that he was the father of this baby. A baby who has the right to know his story and to know his genetic heritage. It is legitimate that the first petitioner feels that, when he can use WFP to have a child, he can do so through another donor, but that he no longer has that right when the donor is someone with whom he has lived and established a relationship of affection and who has left that express will.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u99	Madam Member, I would ask you to interrupt your speech. It is very loud, so I ask the honourable Members and the honourable Members. Members standing to sit or leave the Chamber in order to meet the minimum conditions for silence so that the speakers are respected and each other respected. Madam Member, please continue.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u100	Thank you very much, Madam President. As I said, this woman no longer has that right when the donor is someone with whom she lived and established a relationship of affection and who left that express will. Article 22. the law of the assisted drug procreation, maintaining the 2006 writing, prohibits post mortem insemination and in vitropost mortem fertilization. In an attempt to explain, it is argued that this being, still a project, should be entitled to a stable and adequate home, but that is what Mrs and Mrs. Members, it would be concluded that single-parent families are unable to provide an adequate home of stability. That's it, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is a false assumption, it is a dangerous assumption, it is a prejudice, it seems from the assumption that these people will no longer develop emotional ties with other people in the future. What concerns us, as a society, that a child genetically born to a father cannot live in a family reconstituted by the mother? It's not like that, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in so many marriages that haven't resorted to LDCs techniques? In the field of specialty, the NAP will present proposals, in particular with regard to the right of succession. A child conceived through a post mortem technique, resulting from a known but meanwhile deceased donor, brings a difficulty that needs to be guarded. And perhaps this is the greatest reason why the law has not yet foreseen it. The future baby, not yet conceived, would not be, before the law, heir to the deceased father. It seems to us that this amendment will require a moratorium because if, on the one hand, it is important to ensure the successive rights of those who have not yet been born, it also seems to us that this right should not violate the rights of the living heirs. The question of mourning and the need to ensure that the whole process is carried out in a healthy way to avoid contaminating the decision to be taken may and should be raised. Taking advantage of the challenge of this citizens' legislative initiative, we are again bringing forward a proposal for the resolution of the pregnancy of substitution in order to safeguard the issues of unconstitutionality that have been raised. That is, and very briefly, in the NAP proposal, the replacement pregnant woman is able to revoke consent, up to 20 days after birth, before the compulsory registration of the child; persons born through these procedures are able to access the information that concerns them, provided they are 18 years old or older; the pregnancy of substitution performed after the formalization, in writing, of a joint requirement of the persons concerned, addressed to the National Council for the Processing of Assisted Medicinal Products, cannot result in restrictions or impositions on pregnant women who act against their rights, freedoms and dignity; and finally, the possibility of monitoring the pregnant woman by the beneficiaries, during some moments of the agreed pregnancy, in order to ensure the development of an affective link from the beginning of the therapeutic processes to the delivery of the child.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u101	Mr Paula Santos of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u102	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, we welcome the citizens who have taken the initiative to present to the Assembly a legislative initiative of citizens to propose the amendment of the law regulating assisted reproductive techniques in order to allow post-mortem insemination. If today we are discussing such a sensitive but relevant issue in the plenary session of the Assembly of the Republic, I should like to say this about the intervention and participation of the citizens. The CFP wanted to make its contribution to finding a solution that included post-mortem insemination in the law, and that is why we brought the debate to a legislative initiative. The evolution of technical and scientific knowledge enabled extraordinary advances in medicine and life sciences. The evolution of infertility treatments is a good example of this. Access to assisted medical procreation techniques and their regulation was an enormous advance in terms of sexual and reproductive rights, while opening up new perspectives in scientific research and a new opportunity to improve people's health and well-being.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u103	Madam Member, I ask you to interrupt a little bit. Once again, I ask the Members and the Members. Ladies and gentlemen standing by and talking about respect for who is intervening. Please continue, Mrs Paula Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u104	Thank you very much, Mr President. PMA techniques are responsible for the realization of the dream of many families diagnosed with infertility to have the so-called child. From 2006 to today, the law regulating assisted reproductive techniques has been subject to changes. One of the most significant changes was the extension of techniques to all women. WFP techniques are not an alternative form of reproduction, but the clinical treatment for a disease, infertility, and we understand that non-toolalization of life, human body and reproductive organs should be safeguarded, not allowing the use of these techniques for unwanted purposes. It is in this sense that the principle of the law is enshrined in determining that the techniques of LDCs are a subsidiary, and not alternative, method of procreation and that the use of techniques can only occur by diagnosis of infertility. However, the law provided for an exception from the beginning, which is the possibility of using LDCs techniques for the treatment of serious disease or the risk of transmission of genetic, infectious or other diseases to children. However, a second exception was introduced: permission to women, regardless of the diagnosis of infertility, to access LDCs techniques. Thus, women are guaranteed their right to maternity and their right to health, using donor gamétas. The legislative initiative of citizens alerts to an injustice present in the law and considers, I quote, "of extreme cruelty and discrimination that a woman who initiates a WFP process during the illness of her husband or companion, having kept her semen and with prior consent signed, cannot give continuity to the desire of the couple and a carefully and jointly weighted life project. Do not keep on seeking. ” It adds that «this woman may, however, resort to unknown donor genetic material, which may be alive or dead». Today, the law already allows « the post mortem transfer of embryo to carry out a clearly established parental project in writing before the father dies ». This means extending the possibility of post-mortem insemination, making it lawful. Therefore, we propose that the law allow for post-mortem insemination in cases where an assisted reproductive process has been initiated and that, due to the illness of the husband or companion, and having this cry-preserved his semen and with prior consent signed, in the event of his death, the woman may follow up the desire of the couple and a joint and reflected life project together. We also believe that it is necessary to ensure, in all this process and in the legislation to be approved, the dignity of the people and the best interest of the child who is born. We have already expressed our readiness to contribute not only to the deepening of the debate but also to find the most appropriate solution to the citizens' claim. We also believe that the response capacity of public drug breeding centres assisted in the SNS needs to be strengthened so that the rights enshrined in the law are effective. There are numerous difficulties in accessing the techniques of LDCs, which are evident in the high waiting times and in the low number of public drug breeding centers assisted as well as in its asymmetric location in the territory. These are difficulties that come from behind but that have been worsening. Already in 2015, at the initiative of the CFP, a resolution by the Assembly of the Republic on ensuring the accessibility of infertility treatments was adopted, which recommends to the Government the extension of the number of public drug breeding centres assisted. In addition to the need to implement this resolution on the part of the Government, it is also necessary to strengthen the number of health professionals in the field of reproductive medicine and its multidisciplinary nature, in order to remove waiting lists and ensure access to assisted reproductive treatments. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u105	For an intervention, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u106	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Assisted drug procreation is an issue that involves tension between rights, since the right to have children cannot be disconnected from the child's right to a dignified life and, among other dimensions, includes the right to have a family. Fortunately, the concept of family has evolved and it is now widely accepted that a child can be educated by a couple regardless of gender or by one person and find there his or her family nucleus. A family that respects their dignity and cares for their best interests. It is therefore possible and even desirable, in accordance with what I said, to speak in the right to have children, a right that must be respected and guarded. Still, what is being discussed here today is more specific than the right to have children. The right to have children is discussed with the person who has been chosen, according to the same person and in a shared kinship project. This is because to the widowed woman, whose seed of the deceased husband has been preserved by express and written intent of artificial insemination, such insemination is prohibited. Another woman who travels to an anonymous donor, who may already have died, is already allowed. This is unacceptable discrimination and our vote is intended to correct it. We also welcome the proposals that bring other amendments to the law on assisted drug procreation, in particular with regard to pregnancy of substitution, in order to make this law operational again.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u107	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u108	I shall conclude, Mr President. Scientific progress daily brings new degrees of freedom and responsibility to the desire to be a mother or father, and when it comes to defending freedom here will be the Liberal Initiative to do so.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u109	Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Greens has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u110	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Techniques for the production of assisted medicinal products return to plenary today, this time at the initiative of a group of citizens, who, on behalf of the Greens, take advantage of the possibility of legally dedicating themselves to artificial insemination with a deceased spouse's semen. With this citizen legislative initiative, and on this subject, we also discussed other initiatives from various parliamentary groups. However, both the LDCs and the replacement pregnancy are subjects to which The Greens have come to give great importance and which has led us, even in the last legislature, to present a bill to extend the eligibility conditions and the universe of the beneficiaries of the LDCs techniques, and which, like projects of other political forces, was at the origin of Law No. 25 / 2016, which also regulated access to replacement pregnancy. In particular, with our proposal, there was a need to respond to two problems resulting from Law No 32/2006: on the one hand, the restrictive nature of eligibility conditions, which ended up limiting WFP only the subsidiary method and linked only to cases of infertility, treatment of serious illness or risk of transmission of diseases; and on the other hand, the discriminatory nature that stemmed from the fact that only married persons or in fact together can be beneficiaries and only if couples were made up of different sex. Now, as we know, these Green proposals have ultimately merited acceptance and either the restrictive rule as the discriminatory rule has been removed from the legal text. Turning to the proposals under discussion today, I would like to say that, globally, they seem fair and timely and, in our view, they are improving the legislative architecture relating to the techniques of LDCs and the regime of substitution pregnancy. Thus, it also seems to us that a woman who initiates a WFP process during the illness of her husband or companion, having cryopreserved her semen, and with prior signed consent, should in fact be able to continue the desire of the couple, to a carefully and jointly weighted life project. The same is true of the other situations that these proposals set out. As regards the legislative initiative of the CDS-PP, which proposes the increase of three to five cycles of treatment of the second line of LDCs shared by the SNS, this is, in our view, a healthy effort to remove an injustice resulting from the fact that many infertile couples after the third cycle shared by the SNS, are deprived of financial means to continue the treatment and therefore we also follow this legislative initiative of the CDS-PP. Finally, with regard to the draft amendments to the replacement gestation system, essentially what is intended is to conform the Legal Regime of the Replacement Management with the Constitutional Court's judgment, with regard to certain rules also of Law No 25 / 2016, which we have voted favourably and therefore also deserve our agreement, because the proposed amendments seem necessary to comply with the regime of replacement gestation with the said judgment, until this decision of the Constitutional Court, in our view, does not present unconstitutionalities that are absolutely insurmountable. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u111	For an intervention by the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sandra Pereira has the floor. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u112	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, today we are discussing legislative initiatives on assisted drug procreation, but of course they have different objects, and they can be grouped as follows: some, are about substitution pregnancy; others, about post-mortem insemination; and another, about the CDS, about the treatment cycle. It is good to see, Mr President, that these are three different subjects and would send the common sense that had not been grouped into one and the same debate, but, having been, we still accept their joint debate, although without the depth that the importance and the ethical and legal complexity of the matters in question would justify. With regard to the pregnancy of substitution, these legislative initiatives—and this has already been said—have attempted to resolve a legal impasse created by the declaration of unconstitutionality of certain rules relating to the irrevocability of the consent of the pregnant woman, but, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the present solution creates a lot more problems than those that solve. In the bills of the NAP and the Left Block, the decision to deliver the child is pending up to 20 days after his/her birth and therefore Mrs. Members, this alone represents a sentence that makes it impossible for the pregnancy itself to be replaced. As the popular giraffe says, "it is worse the amendment than the sonnet". To make the child's sonship dependent, that is, whether the child is the child of the beneficiary couple or the pregnant woman, according to, unique and exclusively, the child's will, which will always exercise it after birth, besides being a clear invitation to conflict, is, of course, a serious violation of the fundamental rights of the child, with which the PSD can never deal. With regard to the initiatives on post-mortem insemination, I would, of course, like to congratulate the many citizens who have addressed the Assembly of the Republic on a legislative initiative, and I will do so in the person of the first subscriber, Mrs. Angela Ferreira, who is present here, to whom I would naturally like to greet. In these and other initiatives on this matter, it is to allow children to come to be born of a deceased father. Now, Mr. As and Mrs. Members, the PSD Parliamentary Group, after a mature and thought-prone reflection—because we do not cease to be sensitive and supportive to the specific case that brought us here—the perspective on these matters cannot and should not stop exclusively on the right of women to pursue these parental projects. Also, ladies and gentlemen. Members, but not only, there must be an integrated view of women's rights and, of course, of the rights of children, the best interests of children, the right to be born with father and mother, which is a right that even has legal coverage. And the question that matters is this: do these children or do they have the right to be born with their father and mother? Do we really want to allow the birth of a child the child of a father who has already died? Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, all children have the right to have a father, and this father is not a mere donor. In fact, the spirit of the law clearly distinguishes a donor from a father. I didn't want the law in force to treat the donor the same way a father treats. Father is another thing: Father gives history, gives it name, assigns heritage rights and successive rights. See, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the impact and unpredictability these matters create on successive law. Father is, by definition, a person present in the life of a child since his birth, and that is a right of all children. [[Protests by BE Mésos Ferreira.]] Despite the respectability and solidarity that such parental projects deserve us, they cannot be above the rights of children, who will always be the object of our greatest protection as a society. [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u113	I'm asking the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, let the honourable Member intervene. And I'm asking the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen who continue to sit down. If you want to talk, talk outside! Continues in the use of the word, Mrs.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u114	Thank you very much, Mr President. Finally, I give a word for the legislative initiative of the CDS. The PSD will, of course, follow it, because it accompanies its concerns, without prejudice to the fact that, in the specialty, we will do a serious job and we can improve it. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u115	To close the debate, for one speech, Mr Pedro Delgado Alves, of the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u116	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I had -I had initially registered to leave a note on the project presented by the CDS, just to explain why we cannot follow it. It seems to us that the law of assisted drug procreation is not the most appropriate place to introduce a link in relation to cycles that are monitored in the SNS. The current solution, which refers to a decision and evaluation in the SNS, seems to us more appropriate and, on the other hand, there is indeed the risk that, increasing to five cycles without a guarantee that the probability of success is high, we may even encounter the difficulty of being making it difficult and increasing the duration of the waiting lists of those contexts in which even procedures have not begun and in which this reality may exist. By giving this note, I cannot fail to respond to Mrs Sandra Pereira's speech, to say that she was not waiting for an intervention coming directly from 1955,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... taking into account that the legislation on assisted drug procreation has been amended in 2016 and now allows for the access of single women to WFP. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD MP Sandra Pereira protests.]] But more: since the beginning of the legislation provides for post-mortem insemination and it is surprising that the honourable Member, who has been rapporteur of the petition and of the citizens' legislative initiative, has not noticed that the law already provides that post-mortem insemination is possible and that what is at stake...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u117	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u118	I shall conclude, Mr President. What is at stake, I was saying, is only discretionary and arbitrary access to post-mortem insemination. [[PSD MP Sandra Pereira protests.]] Therefore, with all due respect, Mrs Deputies, your intervention does not fit in this debate, does not fit in the 2002 debate and would not fit in an earlier debate. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD MP Sandra Pereira protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u119	Ladies and gentlemen. Members are in room 127 Members, exceeding the number which has been decided on by 121, so I ask the leaders of the parliamentary groups to ensure that there is respect for the rules we ourselves have adopted. There must be Members of the various parties going to their offices and just coming back in a little while, when there are votes. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of this debate we will enter the fifth item on the agenda, of which the assessment of the General State Account for 2018. You have the floor to speak by the Government, the Secretary of State for the Budget, Cláudia Joaquim, who is fulfilling. Please, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u120	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The General State Account is today under discussion, at a very particular moment and context that seems to make this discussion extemporaneous, but if we think a little, it is not. The 2018 State General Account shows us the evolution, consistent and sustained, of a trajectory that began in 2016 and was consolidated in 2019. An evolution that reflects the fulfilment of all budgetary targets during this period, with a positive evolution at the level of implementation, consolidating the trajectory of improving public accounts, which culminated in the first budgetary surplus in the history of Portuguese democracy in 2018. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We were able to leave the excessive deficit procedure at the beginning of the legislation, with sustained growth from the economy to the beginning of the pandemic ; with a decrease in public debt - I recall the decrease in debt weight, as a percentage of GDP (gross domestic product ), from 131 % in 2016 to 121 % in 2018, a significant reduction of 10 percentage points, and 117 % of GDP in 2019 ; and with a decrease in interest charges. However, it should be noted that the budgetary results presented here have not been obtained at the cost of Portuguese incomes, on the contrary. They were accompanied by measures over the years to restore and strengthen Portuguese incomes, increase employment, greater rights and better social protection. The 2018 General State Account, as well as the 2019 General Account, already delivered to the Assembly of the Republic, confirms the success of the measures implemented by the Government in recent years. The bet on improving income, either by the gradual increase in the minimum wage, by defrosting careers or by the increase in pensions contributed to a large extent to the results of the General Accounts of the State of 2019 and 2018. This is accompanied by a reduction in the weight of GDP taxes over the period. We demonstrated that it was possible to change the paradigm, with positive results in the public accounts and in the lives of Portuguese, reducing the weight of taxes and simultaneously increasing income and social protection. [[Congrats from PS MP Sonia Fertuzinhos.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in 2018, the budgetary deficit of public administrations was 0, 5 % of GDP, less than half of the value provided for in the State budget, thus reaching the lowest value since 1973. The increase in revenue from public administrations contributed to the improvement of this balance by around 0, 8 percentage points of GDP, which made it more than double the increase by 0, 3 percentage points of actual expenditure. It is important to highlight the increase in gross fixed capital formation by EUR 402 million and, conversely, the decrease in interest charges by EUR 481 million. Although a negative budget balance had been found, the primary balance was positive at 3 % of GDP and in 2018 we saw an improvement of around 1, 1 percentage point, which was higher, in double, than the Stability and Growth Pact. This movement also demonstrates that the Government has pursued a countercyclical policy, given the positive change in this indicator during the period of economic expansion. As I mentioned earlier, fiscal consolidation has enabled the reduction of the public debt ratio as a percentage of GDP to be followed, thereby increasing market confidence and contributing to national financial stability. In line with previous years, the total late payments in central administration decreased significantly, with a reduction of more than 40 % in 2018 compared to 2017, which continued in 2019. At the same time as this decline, there was still a reduction in the average payment period, which is 60 days. The Government's great effort to receive a large part of the Court of Auditors'recommendations should also be highlighted in order to improve the quality of public finance information. In fact, around 59 % of the recommendations made in 2018 were accepted, of which 76 % correspond to the reliability of the financial, financial and heritage statements. Finally, I highlight the ongoing reforms with regard to public finances: the implementation of the SNC-AP ( System of Accounting Standardization for Public Administrations), and in 2018 some 991 entities already provided accounts through this scheme; and the implementation of the Budget Framework Act, with an impact already on the State Budget for 2021, in the State Budget report and on the maps of the law and information, with more detailed information or new information, such as the framework of invariant policies or multi-annual structured investments. The implementation of the Budget Framework Act is also a priority and we are working towards strengthening UniLEO (One Implementation Unit of the Budget Framework Act) and its resources. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, returning to the beginning of my speech, it is not extemporaneous the discussion of the 2018 State General Account and much less the discussion of the very positive evolution of the Portuguese public accounts from 2016 to the beginning of 2020. We are all, in Portugal and around the world, living a single moment of a global pandemic, with impacts and consequences yet unpredictable, but we have no doubt that the starting point of Portugal, when the pandemic began, in terms of public accounts, is and will be fundamental! We have had a positive public account situation and will continue to make all the difference in the capacity to respond to the consequences of the pandemic, in the adoption of employment support measures and Portuguese incomes, in a responsible and sustained way. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u121	Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u122	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The narrative that it was possible to increase income, increase pensions and, at the same time, increase public investment, lower taxes, reduce public debt and reduce late payments fell on land with the 2018 State General Account and also dropped the myth of the economic miracle announced by the Government of the Socialist Party at the beginning of the previous legislature. In 2018, we saw a return of income and an increase in pensions. That is absolutely factual, but since there are no miracles, it is worth saying that this has, of course, been achieved with the greatest tax burden of all time. In 2018, revenue collected in taxes and contributions reached EUR 71, EUR 4 billion, corresponding to 35, 4 % of GDP, i.e. the highest burden of democracy and even dictatorship, if we want to go back in time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u123	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u124	This makes it even more relevant because it was the government itself which, at the beginning of its term of office, guaranteed that in 2018 the tax burden would suffer a reduction in the order of 2 % of GDP. But the government has not only imposed the highest tax burden of all time, it has laid down funds in public investment, generously budgeted but always very captivated, remaining for a mere 61 % of the materialized in 2012, i.e. just over half of the verified in troika time. With the maximum tax burden and the level of public investment at least, what did the Portuguese receive in return? They also received public services at least. Indeed, the year 2018 was marked by chaos in public transport, with the removal of thousands of trains; by the lack of teachers and operational assistants; by schools without money for heating;...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u125	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u126	... by deteriorating health care; by delays in medical consultations, by ambulances of INEM (National Institute of Medical Emergency ) stopped due to lack of personnel; by hospital units to be carried out by patients in monkeys, due to lack of beds. The year 2018 was marked by the largest number of complaints against the State in the Public Prosecutor's Office, with particular emphasis on complaints about delays in pension decisions, which grew 39 %. And what about the public debt? What about late payments? Public debt rose in absolute terms to EUR 1870 million and excuses the government to argue that what counts is debt as a percentage of GDP. from a market financing perspective, the evolution of nominal debt is also important, since it represents an additional total amount to the annual debt dues that the State has to collect from new investors each year. As regards the amount of late payments, it is noted that at the end of 2018, it can be higher than EUR 31 million compared with the last year of PSD / CDS-PP governance. Here, with the aggravating as mentioned by the Economic and Social Council, in a note of concern, to have witnessed an increase in the number of entities with an average payment period of more than 60 days, which increased from 16 in 2014 to 52 in 2018. In other words, there was a rise of 225 %. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the numbers are bad, but there are other bad things in this General State Account and the opinion of the Court of Auditors, whose President, at that time, was recently dismissed, is simply overwhelming, pointing out materially relevant errors that affect their viability and transparency. Despite all this, the government and the PS have as their medals the fact that in 2018 the economy grew by 2, 4 % and the deficit remained by 0, 5 % of GDP. We cannot honestly celebrate a growth in the economy of this magnitude, knowing that all 15 cohesion countries, that is, those who have per capita incomes below the European average and to whom we can compare, have simply grown more than we do.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u127	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u128	As we also see no reason to conclude a budgetary adjustment based essentially on a maximum tax burden, as it was on a minimum public investment, on at least one public service, on the historically low interest bonus and on the Banco de Portugal dividends. Honestly, we can't. No one can. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u129	It is the turn of the CFP Parliamentary Group, and you have the floor for an intervention, Mr Duarte Alves.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u130	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : The discussion of the 2018 State General Account, on the day when we started the discussion of the State Budget for 2021, allows us to make an important exercise for the discussion that we will have today afternoon and the next days. It allows us to make a counterpoint between the reality of the country in 2018 and the reality that we currently live as a result of the pandemic and the economic and social situation that has settled down. In the State Budget for 2018, significant advances were made, associated with the PCP initiative, which continued the path of reintroduction of income and rights that had been withdrawn from the Portuguese people by the PSD / CDS government. Progress which was fundamental to achieving the economic results achieved. In 2018, measures were taken such as the extraordinary increases in pensions, that of extraordinary support for long-term unemployed, that of the full replacement of the Christmas and holiday allowance, that of the replacement of rights in the Public Administration, with the full payment of extraordinary hours ; that of the elimination of cuts in unemployment benefit ; that of the extension of the gratuitousness of school textbooks. Measures such as the increase in IRS steps (tax on income of natural persons) or the increase in minimum existence have led to an effective reduction in tax, and today it is necessary to comply with the commitments made at the level of IRS, for a real relief of taxation on lower and intermediate income. In 2018, the increase in national minimum wage, even if limited, did not lead to greater unemployment or bankruptcy. On the contrary, it was the increase in income, through wages, of social benefits, of tax policy, which contributed decisively to the dynamism of the national economy. Also now, it must be by valuing the incomes of those who work or work that responds to the situation we live in. But other lessons can be taken from 2018 to the present. As in 2018, there were more decisive advances, also in 2020 we noted a set of limitations that are now even more clearly incompatible with the necessary responses to the situation in the country. Public investment cannot continue to be the adjustment variable used by the Government to meet its obsession with the accelerated reduction of the deficit. In national accounts, the 2018 budget provided for a public investment of EUR 4500 million. It tells us the General State Account that the investment was, after all, EUR 3800 million, representing more than EUR 700 million of difference. And it is in these 700 million that we see the difference between the government deficit of 0, 7 % and the deficit of 0, 4 % reached at the end of the year. In other words, the budgetary margin resulting from a positive economic situation influenced by income recovery measures was channelled not to public investment, where it was needed, but to speed up the deficit. It would have been much more useful to invest this margin in the SNS, in public school, in infrastructure, in support of national production, so that the country was in better conditions today. But we also have lessons to learn at the level of PPPs (public-private partnerships), which, in the opinion of the Court of Auditors on the General State Account, are pointed out as having large discrepancies between public charges and private charges. And this disproportion continues in 2020, especially if we look at road PPPs, where even in time of confinement the profits of the large dealers remained at the expense of public resources, which would have been resolved if the CFP proposals had been approved. Mrs. Members, whether in the low level of public investment, in the continuation of the drain of public resources for economic groups, through PPP, New Bank, tax benefits, among others, either in the lack of response to public services problems in the SNS and in public school, what the budget execution of 2018 reveals is that, in order to respond to the country's structural problems, it is necessary, and today even more clearly, to break up with the taxes and constraints of Brussels and assume an alternative policy of development, sovereignty and social progress. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u131	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u132	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This liberal minute will travel in time. These are us in almost 2021 and here we are discussing the 2018 State General Account. The government, that, does not travel in time, is stopped in time. Parade, deaf and mute, of course, with regard to the recommendations of the Court of Auditors. of the 57 recommendations contained in the opinion, 45 came from previous years, some years well before. An echo of the past that the Government is anxious not to listen to, accepting only 10 recommendations of these years. After dealing with the Budget Framework Act for years, including that in which we are now, it is now the General Account of the State that does not comply with basic budgetary principles or the legal provisions on budgetary implementation. The Court of Auditors states that there is no linkage or consistency between the various documents in the budgetary procedure ( the Stability Programme, the Great Plan Options, the Reports of the State Budget and the General Account ), neither in the objectives nor in the measures nor in the results. Consolidation procedures remain incomplete, there are still errors in accounting for revenue and expenditure values due to the down-to-dates of the classifiers, no state assets portfolio and no inventory of state real estate. All matters raised several times, to which the Government 'hears to market' and which lead a common citizen to ask, and rightly so, that they have the reliability of the public accounts. Because of the lack of transparency, complexity, insistence on error, the vote of the Liberal Initiative will obviously be against the 2018 State General Account.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u133	Mr Inês de Sousa Real, of the NAP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u134	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The first big issue that we can not fail today to bring to this discussion around the 2018 State General Account, which has not only delayed, as we well know, contrary to what is the popular saying, that what it takes does not fail, and which has, in fact, several shortcomings pointed out, is that of financing to the bank in Portugal. And in this respect we stress the opinion of the Court of Auditors, which stated that, between 2008 and 2018, the bank received a net total of EUR 18 billion and EUR 292 million in public support, which amounts to precisely 9 % of the 2018 GDP. These public support shall take the form of acquisition of equity and bonds, lending and collateral provision. What happens is that government after government, budget after budget, there is no money for what really interests citizens, for example, to value careers, for the adaptation of the territory to climate change, for fire prevention, health, the fight against poverty and, for example, energy poverty, housing for all and for all, policies for young people, in the name of respect for the limits of the deficit, but, on the contrary, there is indeed money for bottomless pockets, to finance the mismanagement of the bank and for the tax bubbles that so far persist for the polluters of this country. The second big issue that we would like to point out in relation to the General State Account has to do with the application of the Law of Commitments itself, in late payments in the health sector. The public health crisis that was caused by the COVID-19 came to explain how negative that legislation is, which, in the opinion of the NAP, created various constraints in the Public Administration, which, in a fundamental area such as that of health, undermines the proper functioning of the services, translating into lack of resources, equipment, increase of the average waiting times, among other aspects, thus affecting the efficiency and effectiveness of access to the National Health Service. We therefore advocate not only an appropriate budget for the SNS, which has been, in fact, sub-invested so far, but also the creation of an exceptional regime for the National Health Service, within the framework of the Law of Commitments and Late Payments. The limits imposed by this law have led the Court of Auditors in recent years to refuse contracts for the purchase of medicinal products, the purchase of goods and services for food, the treatment of clothing, maintenance contracts, the realization of complementary means of diagnosis and investments in health units, even leading the Court to state in a 2019 decision that there was « a real systemic problem to be urgently resolved by the legislator ». In view of these criticisms and concerns of the Court of Auditors, which we cannot fail to follow, there is in fact a conclusion to be withdrawn from the analysis of this General State Account of 2018 : it continues to be affected by materially relevant errors, situations of inconsistencies of convergence with the legislation itself, and it seems to us that there has to be a more appropriate assessment of public policies regarding the financial resources that are planned and then properly justified and appropriate expenditure.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u135	Mr Cecilia Meireles now speaks for an intervention by the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u136	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This budget which the Secretary of State has classified as the budget which has fulfilled all the goals, I would say, some goals, but has not met others. And I would like to speak a little bit of the unmet goals of this Budget, until, being here, in the 2018 Account, we have to admit that the failure to meet some of these goals will not be exactly surprising and, therefore, even to realize that the Left Block and the PCP, which are now very surprised because the PS apparently does not meet some of its programmatic standards and the promises it makes in the Budget, I think it is worth remembering here some standards, and standards that have been visible at least until now every year. First non-metal pattern: the goal of tax revenues. The tax revenue in 2018 increased more than twice as much as expected in the State budget. It is true that this happened not only in 2018, but is the example of a goal that has not been met. in the same way, another classic example is that of capital or investment expenditure. Although it increased significantly, it continued to represent only 61, 2 % of the 2012 value, maintaining a low implementation rate of the approved budget ( 54, 6 % of the implementation rate ). This is true in 2018, as it had already been true in 2017 and it was relatively true again in 2019. It also tells the Account that the limits set for some budgetary programmes have been exceeded, essentially as a result of the situations of chronic subordination — basic and secondary education and health — and the option to centralize in the Ministry of Finance an increasing volume of appropriations, such things that now seem to surprise very much the PCP and the Left Block, but that were true throughout all the budgets that you see. Ex. approved. And because the Secretary of State said that at the beginning of 2018 we had left the procedure due to excessive deficits, and it is true, I would also like to recall the following: Mr. ex-Minister of Finance, Mr. Mário Centeno, explained something that seems quite obvious: he explained that the design of the New Bank sales model, which involved, of course, what is in practice a public guarantee and which, under this guarantee, implies transfers over the next four years, was a design made precisely to allow Portugal to exit from the excessive deficit procedure. It is only a pity that, at the time, if you have forgotten to say this, and it is even more unfortunate that your partners, who have allowed the approval of these Budgets, seem to have taken almost four years to realize this obvious thing. It is that the public guarantee of EUR 3890 million was even to be paid and was not just there to see or, in this case, to American see. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u137	Mr António Gameiro, from the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u138	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira, let's see if we understand each other. You came to this House saying that in 2018 we had the biggest tax burden ever, but you forgot to say... [[Protests by PSD MP Jorge Paulo Oliveira.]] ... which were the taxes that increased in the State budget for 2018. None! None! None! No tax has been increased in Portugal in 2018! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u139	It was 34!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u140	I think the PSD Parliamentary Group is wrong, because in fact it confuses revenue results with tax burden and forgets that the revenue result has settled and was essentially justified by the increase of 154 000 Portuguese employed between 2017 and 2018. It was 154 000 Portuguese with jobs that led to more IRS; there was more economic activity and therefore there was more VAT (tax on value added) ; there were more companies... [[Protests from PSD Members.]] ... and therefore there was more IRC (tax on the income of the public). Therefore, this increase in IRC, VAT and IRS is justified by the attitude of restoring income, placing income in the hands of people and thus increasing private consumption and the capacity of the Portuguese economy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u141	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u142	We therefore do not accept this qualification, because it is not rigorous. The General Account of the State of 2018, moreover, represents a historical result of the management of public money and a responsible and rigorous budgetary management. [[Rice from PSD MP Jorge Paulo Oliveira.]] With the 2018 budget, 154 000 jobs were actually created, reducing the unemployment rate from 8, 9 % to 7 %. It was possible to present an economic growth rate of 2, 1 % and an export growth rate of 3, 5 %. In 2018, after due corrections of the effects of the cycle and the impact of temporary and non-recurring measures, it was found that the structural balance of potential GDP improved by around 1 % compared to the previous year. It should be noted that this improvement represented more than twice what was required by the Stability and Growth Pact and proved the implementation of a countercyclical policy, in the proper sense, resulting in a deficit of 1, 2 % in public accounts and a deficit of 0, 4 % in national accounts. It was a historic execution. Of course, the Court of Auditors made repairs, recommendations and emphasis to the General State Account, as it always does, but revenue from central administration and social security increased by 5 %, 1 % when expenditure only increased by 4 %, 4 %. The consolidation process is, in fact, still lacking improvements. The fact that LEO (the Law on the Budget Framework) is delaying implementation and has a new system of accounting standardisation, which needs to be widely disseminated and, above all, acquired and implemented by the various public services, does not, for example, allow the realisation and inventory of state mobile goods to be ensured in an integrated strategy. It is true that tax revenue has increased over EUR 893 million, thanks to Portuguese and its work. It is true that the bonded debt stock by the Tax Authority continued to grow to EUR 663 million. But it is also true that the limit that was set for the expenditure of the central administration was met. In fact, the limits were exceeded in six budgetary programmes, but for example flows with public and business sectors improved by more than EUR 4500 million in favour of the State. The financial flows for autonomous regions totaled EUR 880 million in that year, and the financial flows for local authorities exceeded, for the first time, more than EUR 5590 million in that year. In 2018, GDP continued to grow and in the face of difficult budgetary management circumstances the debt ratio clearly decreased from 121, 5 % to less than 118, 1 %. In fact, we have done a work done by the Government in favour of the Portuguese people, which has allowed the average payment period to fall: not only has it fallen in absolute value, in millions of euros, as the payment deadline has been down to less than 60 days. The total consolidated amount of children, of which the right so much complained in that year, was decapitated more than 70 %. For the maximum expenditure ceiling set out in the multiannual budget programming framework in 2018, we verified an implementation rate of more than 98 %. As regards the responsibilities assumed by guarantees provided, a further reduction was found : in 2018, the total amount was less than 6, 4 % compared to 2017, and above all 28, 1 % compared to 2012.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u143	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u144	Of course, Mr. President. We accompany UTAO (Technical Budget Support Unit) in the idea that it is time for the General State Account to include a self-assessment exercise. Once again, we draw attention to the following: the accountability of governments is essential, but Parliament is looking at 50 days on the State budget and only 50 minutes on its account. We must reflect on this fact. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u145	Mrs Mariana Mortágua, from the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor to speak for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u146	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: The General State Account is important to examine compliance with budgetary options. Many days ago to discuss the Budget : we have made commitments on budgetary policy measures, investment objectives, expenditure targets, social security policies, we have spent a lot of time discussing these measures, discussing their scope, discussing whether or not it increases the budget of each heading and of each ministry. Then it is important to understand whether what we have discussed and the commitments we have made have been fulfilled and implemented, and the General State Account allows us to make this discussion. It is true that in 2018, very important measures were taken to recover income: they were updated and increased pensions, that the PSD/CDS government had frozen; it was reduced the IRS, that the PSD/CDS government had increased; they were restored Christmas subsidies, which had been cut at the time of the PSD and CDS; social support, which had been cut in the past. We know that this recovery of income has happened and we know how important it has been, along with the increase in the minimum wage, to improve the economy and for GDP to grow. Finally, we had the economy growing. Because of this growth in GDP and because of employment growth, there is an increase in tax revenue, compared with the budget, of EUR 1507 million. Interestingly, this increase in revenue is direct taxes, IRS and IRC, and not indirect taxes, according to data from the General State Account, unlike the very common narrative that this is the result not of the increase in taxes, but of the increase in employment. In fact, social contributions were also above what would be expected. But if we're going to talk about deviations from what had been budgeted, there's another heading that was far below what had been budgeted. The investment, or rather, capital expenditure in gross fixed capital formation was EUR 1174 million less than what had been budgeted. The Government repeated promises on public investment and left to execute EUR 1174 million of public investment. These deviations, either the revenue that was not expected — in which EUR 1500 million appears without being budgeted — or the expenditure that is budgeted, but then suddenly it does not appear, put another much more serious problem, which has been recurrent and which we have come to point out over the past few years, which is a problem of transparency on budgetary choices. It is the problem of knowing whether or not we can trust the budget that we are voting on and implementing it. The lowest deficit in history, which the Socialist Party has placed on posters and outdoors, has occurred as a result of a deviation of EUR 1170 million in the face of what had been entered in the Budget. The lowest deficit in history was not included in the Budget. What was included in the Budget was more investment, or less tax, worth EUR 1170 million and, in some ways, there is a deviation in the implementation of the Budget which leads to a much lower deficit than that which had been foreseen. Then, by analyzing the accounts, we see the investment that is not executed, the current expenditure that is not executed, other current transfers that are not executed, together with another problem, which are the expenses with staff, yes, always budgeted, but in which, then, there are EUR 400 million above what had been budgeted. Therefore, there is a chronic subordination, too, that brings very little transparency to the entire budget process. Therefore, in addition to economic policy conclusions on income recovery, inadequacies or inadequacies of what has been approved in the Budgets, there is a very clear conclusion : the budgetary procedure is not transparent and the fulfilment and implementation of the Budget are not transparent by the Government, nor are they close to the decisions taken and the numbers included in the report. This, unfortunately, has been a recurring conclusion over the last few years. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u147	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u148	Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u149	Mr President, it is to make an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u150	About the conduct of the work? What do I look like?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u151	It is to request the distribution of a document to the House, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u152	Please tell me what the document is, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u153	Mr. President, it is a note from the National Institute of Statistics, which, contrary to what Mr. António Gameiro said, indicates that the tax burden in 2018 was 35, 4 % and therefore confirmed that it was the greatest ever. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u154	Thank you very much, Mr. The services will deal with this. For the end of this debate, Mr. Secretary of State of the Budget, Cláudia Joaquim.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u155	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, I would just like to point out that the General Account of the State of 2018 has entered the Assembly of the Republic on 2 July 2019. Therefore, if we are not discussing it earlier, it will have been by other circumstances other than the government. On the issues identified by the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to highlight some of them. Starting with the question of tax burden, I very much appreciate the distribution at the request of Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira of the 2018 tax burden document. It is important to look at the weight of social security contributions in the tax burden. We have had this discussion, not long ago, in the Committee on Budgets and Finance, when I had the opportunity to explain this matter and even question whether an increase in contributions to social security is something negative, since it is associated with an increase in the protection of Portuguese and their social security conditions in terms of social protection. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Therefore, if it is not a problem for the honourable Member to have more contributions to social security, because they mean more employment and more salary, then perhaps the most appropriate exercise is to purge the contributions to social security in this exercise. Then perhaps you can use another very important indicator, which is the weight of GDP taxes, which has actually decreased. Furthermore, as Mrs Mariana Mortágua had the opportunity to say, the year 2018 was precisely a year in which there was a reduction in taxes in the IRS, with an amendment to this tax. Therefore, Mr President, we have come back to the same conversation, but we have also come back to the same explanation. It may bear fruit in a future discussion on the subject of tax burden. With regard to late payments, he made the following statement: « Late payments were lower in the last year of governance of the PSD / CDS government. Do not keep on seeking. ” Perhaps there is an important exercise to be done also in this account, which is to ask what was the weight of the integration of bankers'funds, which were channelled, on the option of the Government of then, to pay the debt of the SNS, which made the State budget pay the pensions of the former bankers and of the current bankers with funds that could be used by the integration of the funds. [[P.S.'s applause.]] If we were to withdraw this money, which was to pay the SNS debts, it might not reach the same conclusion. If you analyze the social security account, you will have the opportunity to see the annual transfer to pay the pensions of the bankers, which may not have been by the State budget every year and for many years, but it may have been by the fund that the banks had and which, with the integration, were also integrated into the State. It is an exercise that may also be important to do. With regard to materially relevant errors, which are obviously a concern of the Government, I would like to point out that a very great effort has been made in this regard. However, I note that during 2012 only 52 % of the recommendations were accepted and in 2015 only 53 % were accepted. So if it's comparison, then let's do them all. With regard to public investment, it is important to take into account a first aspect, which is that, in national accounting, public investment is accounted for only at the end, but not in budgetary accounting. When we speak in public investment, it is important to take into account how long the execution or completion of a large work takes, by the very vicissitudes of the Public Contracts Code, the procedures for awarding, the start of the work. In fact, this is to be reflected, in fact, just looking at the implementation of the investment in 2020, which we expect to have a very significant increase in the year 2021. In 2016, when the government then took possession, the public investments initiated did not exist. In fact, it takes some time, unfortunately. It could take a long time... [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Cecilia Meireles.]] Yes, Mrs Cecilia Meireles, we are with much more investment at the moment. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u156	Mr. Nelson Peralta will give us some information.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u157	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is only to announce that you have entered the Bureau, and it has been admitted, the Draft Resolution No 741 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN).
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u158	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We are going to start the period of the vote, which is going to be a complicated process today. I therefore ask the benches to cooperate as closely as possible with the Bureau and the Bureau will seek to do the same with regard to the various benches. Let's start with a problem, because there's 132 Mr. Members in the Chamber, although every moment, as has been confirmed, can only be 121 Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. So before the votes begin — of course, we have quorum, the number I have just mentioned enough — I ask the benches to take action so that they are only present in Room 121. I have the information that you are present in Room 65 PS Members and 46 PS Deputies, just to give a small example of what needs to be corrected before we start voting. In the meantime, I'm seeing more Members coming in than going out, which is complicated. [[Pause.]] I call again on the parliamentary groups to ensure that they are no more Members in the Chamber than the maximum number established - and I am addressing the PS and PSD in particular. However, I am going to announce the diplomas on the agenda that do not have time for debate: Bill No. 556 / XIV / 2. a ( PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PEV and PAN ) — First amendment to Law No 103 / 2019 of 6 September ; the Budget of the Assembly of the Republic for 2021 ; Proposal for a Resolution No 2 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Convention between the Portuguese Republic and the Republic of Kenya to Eliminate Double Taxation in Income Tax Matters and Prevent Fraud and Tax Evasion, signed in Lisbon on 10 July 2018 ; Proposal for a Resolution No 3 / XIV/1. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Convention for the Creation of the Square Kilometer Array Observatory, signed in Rome on 12 March 2019 ; Proposal for a Resolution No 4 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Agreement between the Portuguese Republic and the Republic of Croatia on Defence Cooperation signed in Lisbon on 10 July 2019 ; Proposal for a Resolution No 6 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Protocol to the Convention on Forced or Compulsory Labour, 1930 adopted by the General Conference of the International Labour Organization at its 103. the session, held in Geneva on 11 June 2014 ; motion for a resolution No 11 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Agreement between the Portuguese Republic and the United States of America on Share of Lost or Equivalent Valued Goods signed in Lisbon on 17 December 2019 ; and Proposal for a Resolution No 13 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Agreement on Air Transport between the Portuguese Republic and the Kingdom of the Netherlands on Curacao, signed in Lisbon on 25 June 2019. Let us then proceed to the vote. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, since in the first vote Members of the same parliamentary group will be voting differently, we will proceed to a first vote with those who are in the Chamber at the moment and then those who are in the Chamber leave to give rise to the other Members, so that the vote will be completed. This is the vote on draft resolution No 679 / XIV / 2. a ( Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees ) — Proposals for a referendum on the penalty of death on request. I ask who votes against. [[Pause.]] the Members present voted against PS, BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, Non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and 3 PSD ( António Lima Costa, Catarina Rocha Ferreira and Monica Quintela ). I'm asking who's away. [[Pause.]] There were no abstentions. I ask who votes in favour. [[Pause.]] of the Members present, they voted in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP and the IL. I'm asking the ladies now. Members leaving the Chamber to give rise to the other Members, who will occupy the unemployed terminals. [[Pause.]] I'm asking the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen who have entered the sitting room, so that we can begin to complement the vote that is taking place. Do not worry about registering presences, because soon, when there is an electronic vote, there will necessarily be an electronic record. We shall then proceed with the vote. I ask who votes against this draft resolution. [[Pause.]] the Members present voted against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the PEV, the Non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and 6 PSD ( André Coelho Lima, António Maló de Abreu, Isabel Meireles, Márcia Passos, Rui Rio and Sofia Matos ). I ask who votes in favour. [[Pause.]] of the Members present, they voted in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP and the IL. I'm asking who's away. [[Pause.]] There were no abstentions. Mrs. Members, the final result was the following: the draft resolution was rejected with votes against the PS, BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, non-registered deputies Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and 9 PSD ( André Coelho Lima, Antonio Lima Costa, Antonio Maló de Abreu, Catarina Rocha Ferreira, Isabel Meireles, Márcia Passos, Monica Quintela, Rui Rio and Sofia Matos ) and votes in favour of the PSD, CDS-PP and IL.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u159	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u160	To what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u161	Mr President, it is to announce that I will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u162	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, today we have a very complicated, very difficult agenda. The gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen who want to make a fa-CL statement of vote will do so. If you start now to announce that you will present statements of vote, we will waste a lot of time just to hear this conversation, which, I'm sorry, doesn't make much sense. If you insist very much, we lose a few more minutes to inform the Bureau of the submission of written explanations of vote. But I was asking you not to do this today.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u163	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u164	Please, Mr. Pedro Cegonho.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u165	Mr President, I shall make a written statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u166	All right, Mr. Deputies. by the way, the Bureau's appeal was not sufficient.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u167	I also call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u168	Please, Mrs Jamila Madeira.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u169	Mr President, I would like to ask the Bureau about the conduct of the work. As Mr President knows - and I know that the effort is everyone's effort - the Members who took part in the second stage of the vote did not even know exactly what they were voting for, because it was not announced. in this vote it is no longer possible to correct the situation, but I ask that when Members who were not present at the beginning of the vote, the title of the diploma being voted should be repeated. I think that's due.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u170	I announced the draft resolution that was being voted on.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u171	No, I said when I was the first group of Members to vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u172	Mrs. Member, I understand and will do my best to improve the work during the conduct of these tasks,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u173	I'm sorry, but we have that right. It is a right that helps us when it comes to knowing what we are voting on.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u174	... but I also ask that there be cooperation on the part of the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. We shall proceed to the vote, in the speciality, of the final text, presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, on Bills Nos. 505 / XIV / 1. a ( PSSD ) — extends the vote in advance to the voters who are in compulsory custody in the context of a situation of serious serious risk to public health, taking the twenty-second amendment to the Electoral Act of the President of the Republic, adopted by Decree-Law No 319 -A / 76, of 3 May, to the tenth amendment to the Electoral Act for the Assembly of the Republic, adopted by Law No 14 / 14 / 79, of 16 May, of 16 May, to the tenth amendment to the Organic Law No 1 / 1 / 2001 of 14 August, which regulates the election for the holders of the organs of local authorities of local authorities, to the seventh amendment to Law No 15 / 15 / A / A / 98, of 3 April ( Organic Act of the Referendorendored Body Act ), to the first amendment to the Regional Referen Regional Referen Regional Referen Regional Act of 14 August, to Act No 15 / 15 / A / A / A / A / A / A /, and 4, and 4 /, and 4 /, and 4, and 4, and 4, and 4, and 4, and 4 June to 12 February and 12 February and 12 February and 12 February and 14 and 14 and 12 February and 12 and 14 and 14 and 14 and 14 and 14 and 14 and 12 and 14 and 14 and 14 and 14 and 14 and 14 and 14 and 14 for, and 14 for, and 12 and 12 and 14 and 12 and 14 and 14 and 14 and 12 and 14 and 14 and 14 and 14 and 14 and 14 and 14 and 14 and 14 and 14 and 14 and 14 and 14 and 14 for, and 14 for, and 14 and 14 and 14 and 14 and 14 and 14 and 14 and 14 and 14 and 14 and 14 and 14 and 14 and 14, and 14 and 14 and 14 and 14 and 14 and 14 and 14 and 14 and 14 and 14 and 14 and 14 and 14 and 14 and 14 and 14 and 14 and 14 and 14 and 14 and 14 and 14 and 14 and 14 and 14 and 14 and 14 and 14 and 14 and 14 and 14 and 14 and 14 and 14 and 14 and 14 and 14 and 14 and 14 and 14 and 14 and 14 and 14 and 14 and 14 and 14 and 14 and 14 and 14 and 14 and 14 and 14 and a ( PS ) — establishes an exceptional system of early voting in the election of the President of the Republic for electors to whom compulsory confinement has been decreed, due to the SARS-CoV-2 epidemic and the COVID-19 disease, at their respective home or at another location defined by the health authorities other than in hospital establishment. First of all, we shall vote on a proposal by the PS and the PSD amending Article 4 ( 3 ( d ). that of the final text. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the CDS-PP abstention.]] [[(d) the residence of the place where it fulfils the compulsory confinement measure to which it is subject, which must be located in the geographical area of the municipality where it is registered in the electoral census or in the neighbouring municipality;]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u175	We shall vote in favour of the plenary of the indexary votes held in the special session. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the CH was recorded.]] We shall move on to the overall final vote, which is a vote that requires the absolute majority of Members to be effective in their duties and to use the electronic vote and, therefore, we will have to repeat the process. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Members, let us then proceed to the final overall vote of the final text, presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on Bills Nos 505 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — extends the vote in advance to the voters who are in compulsory custody in the context of a situation of serious serious risk for public health, taking the twenty-second amendment to the Electoral Act of the President of the Republic, adopted by Decree-Law No. 319 -A / 76, of 3 May, to the tenth amendment to the Electoral Act for the Assembly of the Republic, adopted by Law No. 14 / 79, of 16 May, of 16 May, to the tenth amendment to the Organic Act No. 1 / 2001, of 14 August, which regulates the election for the holders of the organs of local authorities, to the seventh amendment to Law No. 15 -A / 98, of 3 April ( Organic Act of the referendum system of the referendum system of 12 February ), to the first amendment to the legal regime amendment to the legal regime of the regional referendum in the Autonomous regional referendum in the Autonomous referendum regime in the Autonomous region of the Azores of the Azores, adopted by the Organic law No. No. No. No. 2 / No. 2 / 2015, No. No. a ( PS ) — establishes an exceptional system of early voting in the election of the President of the Republic for electors to whom compulsory confinement has been decreed, due to the SARS-CoV-2 epidemic and the COVID-19 disease, at their respective home or at another location defined by the health authorities other than in hospital establishment. I ask who votes against. [[Pause.]] I wonder who they abstained. [[Pause.]] I ask who votes in favour. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Members, we will also proceed to the final overall vote of the final text, presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on Bill No 547 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Other provisions of the electoral laws for the President of the Republic, the Assembly of the Republic and the bodies of the local authorities, the organic laws of the referendum regime and the local referendum and the legal regime of the electoral census, extending the vote in mobility and simplifying and uniforming cross-border provisions for the execution of electoral and referendum acts. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed equally. I ask who votes against. [[Pause.]] Who's away? [[Pause.]] Who votes in favour? [[Pause.]] Let's continue this vote... Mrs Clara Marques Mendes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u176	Mr President, just to say that I voted in favour of the previous vote, but on my computer nothing appeared so that I could signal my vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u177	Your position shall be recorded, Mrs Deputy. Mr Capoulas Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u178	Mr. President, the exact same thing happened on my device.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u179	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr Adam Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u180	Mr President, on a methodological point alone, I would ask Mr President to clarify the following: there will now be a rotation of Members to make the electronic vote and then it is a normal vote. Right?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u181	Exactly, Mr. Deputies. I now ask you to speak to me. Ladies and gentlemen leaving so that the Members outside can come in. [[Pause.]] I'm asking the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, please sit on terminals that have not been used before. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, please register, because we have been informed by the Services that, in order to avoid any problems in the electronic vote, it is appropriate for us to do so. Members shall register before the vote. It is contradictory to what I had at first, that the registration was done automatically with the electronic vote, which seemed perfectly normal to me, but it is life! Let us, then, continue the vote with this new group of Members... Mrs Lina Gomes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u182	I'm sorry, Mr President, but I'm not being able to register.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u183	All right, Mrs Deputy, you will then communicate your sense of vote. Let us then begin with the final overall vote of the final text presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on the Bills Law No 505 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — extends the vote in advance to the voters who are in compulsory custody in the context of a situation of serious grave risk for public health, taking the twenty-second amendment to the Electoral Act of the President of the Republic, adopted by Decree-Law No. 319 -A / 76, of 3 May, to the tenth amendment to the Electoral Act for the Assembly of the Republic, adopted by Act No. 14 / 79, of 16 May, of 16 May, to the tenth amendment to the Organic Act No. 319 -A / 76, of 3 May, of 3 May, to the seventh amendment to the Electoral Act for the Assembly of the Republic of the Republic, adopted by Act No. 14 / 79, of 16 May, to the tenth amendment to the Organian Act of 16 May, to the tenth amendment of the Organian Act No. 2 / No. 2 / 2015, of 12 February, of February, and to the fourth amendment of 12 February, and to the fourth amendment to the Rules of 12 February, and to the United Kingdom of February, and of February, and to the fourth amendment, and of 12 February, and to 12 February, and to the fourth amendment, and to the 12 February, and to 12 February, and to the Rules, and to the fourth amendment, and to the Rules of, and to the United, and to the Rules of, and to the United, and to the United, and to the United, and to the United, and to the United, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, and of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of a — establishes an exceptional system of early voting in the election of the President of the Republic for electors to whom compulsory confinement has been decreed, as a result of the SARS-CoV-2 epidemic and the COVID-19 disease, at their respective home or at another location defined by the health authorities other than in hospital establishment. I ask who votes against. [[Pause.]] Who's away? [[Pause.]] Who votes in favour? [[Pause.]] Let us now proceed to the final overall vote of the final text, presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, on draft Law No 547 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Other provisions of the electoral laws for the President of the Republic, the Assembly of the Republic and the bodies of the local authorities, the organic laws of the referendum regime and the local referendum and the legal regime of the electoral census, extending the vote in mobility and simplifying and uniforming cross-border provisions for the execution of electoral and referendum acts. I ask you to vote against it. [[Pause.]] Who's away? [[Pause.]] Who votes in favour? [[Pause.]] These projects have all been approved and the results of the votes will be placed on the electronic table. The final result for Bill Nos 505 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) and 549 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) was as follows : in a comprehensive final vote, the final text obtained the votes of the absolute majority of members in effective office, with 202 votes recorded in favour ( PS, PS, BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira ), 5 votes against ( CDS-PP ) and 2 abstentions ( PS 1 and PSD ). The final result for the Bill No 547 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) was the following: in a comprehensive final vote, the final text obtained the votes of the absolute majority of members in effective office, with 188 votes in favour ( PS, PS, BE, PAN, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira ), 5 votes against ( CDS-PP ) and 11 abstentions ( PCP and PEV ). We will now continue the votes in another register, which no longer requires electronic votes. In the meantime, I ask Vice-President Antonio Filipe to replace me and I give the floor to Mrs Ana Paula Vitorino.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u184	Mr President, I could only register when the votes were already being held. I voted in favour of both.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u185	The honourable Member shall add to the number of votes in favour indicated by the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u186	Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u187	There are a few others. Ladies and gentlemen, who did the same thing? Say your names, please, so it'll be registered.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u188	Mr. President, the same has happened to me.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u189	Thank you, Mrs. Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u190	Mr. President, the same has happened to me.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u191	Thank you, Mrs. Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u192	Mr. President, the same has happened to me.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u193	Thank you, Mrs. Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u194	Mr. President, the same has happened to me.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u195	Thank you, Mrs. Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u196	Mr. President, the same has happened to me.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u197	Thank you, Mrs. Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u198	Mr. President, the same has happened to me.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u199	Thank you, Mrs. Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u200	Mr President, I would like to say that I voted in favour but it was not possible for technical reasons to do so at the right time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u201	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u202	Mr President, as can be confirmed by the electronic outcome, Mr Ricardo Vicente had difficulty in making one of the votes, and he gave the indication of one vote and the other, for electronic reasons, failed to do so. This indication remains, but if Mr President understands that it is necessary for him to return to the plenary to make that statement, he will do so.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u203	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. There is no problem with the results of the vote. Mrs Ana Miguel Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u204	Mr President, just to inform you that my vote is not recorded.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u205	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u206	Mr President, my vote is not recorded either.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u207	Mr President, in the second vote I was unable to make the electronic record.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u208	Be registered. We will continue the votes, but first I will give my place to Vice-President Antonio Filipe, whom I thank for this replacement. [[At this moment, he took the presidency of Vice-President Antonio Filipe.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u209	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, are we in a position to proceed?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u210	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u211	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u212	Mr President, after welcoming the Bureau, I would like to inform the Bureau that the Liberal Initiative will present a statement of vote on draft resolution No 679 / XIV / 2. a, that we started voting this morning.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u213	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u214	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u215	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u216	Mr President, I have noted now, and only now, that I have not been registered in the previous votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u217	Be registered now, Mr. Deputies. [[Pause.]] I see Mr. Hugo Carneiro is asking for the floor. To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u218	Mr President, it is only to inform the Bureau that I will present a statement of vote on the euthanasia referendum.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u219	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs. Elza Pais asks for the floor. To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u220	Mr President, I do not think I was registered in the second vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u221	You are now registered, Mrs. Deputy. I should also like to speak to Mr Cunha. To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u222	Mr President, I am not registered either.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u223	You are now registered, Mr Deputy. Mrs Olga Silvestre, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u224	Mr President, to inform you that I am not registered either.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u225	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. She also asks Mrs Clara Marques Mendes for the floor. To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u226	Mr President, I have already signaled earlier that the voting table did not appear here, but now I have found that I am really missing, I am not registered either.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u227	Mrs. Deputy, you're on your way. There is still a request for a word from Mr Pedro Coimbra. To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u228	Mr President, it is also to inform that in the second vote I did not register by the computer system that did not allow it.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u229	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. May I also speak to Mrs Joacine Katar Moreira. To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u230	Mr President, I believe that the last vote is not recorded either.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u231	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the records have been made and, in any event, I believe that there is no change in the final outcome on the basis of the statements made by you. Ladies and gentlemen have done it. Let's go on then. The following diploma is Bill No. 570 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Transitional imposition of the mandatory use of mask in public spaces. There is a request, submitted by the PSD, requesting the successive vote, in plenary, in general, in the specialty and at the global end of the Bill No 570 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Transitional imposition of the mandatory use of mask in public spaces. We shall vote on this request. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, CDS-PP, PAN, IL and non-registered MP Cristina Rodrigues, votes against the PCP and abstains from BE, PEV and MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] If the general vote is adopted, we shall immediately continue to vote in the speciality. Let us then, in general, vote on Bill No. 570 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ). [[The vote was taken in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues, the vote against the IL and the abstentions of the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the Non-registered Vice-President Joacine Katar Moreira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u232	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u233	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u234	Mr President, it is for an appeal to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u235	You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u236	Mr President, I should have done that a little while ago, but I wasn't in time. Although there is no change in the final outcome of the vote, it seems to me that, when one Member says that he has not been able to register himself, he should indicate what his sense of vote was because, despite being indifferent to the final meaning of the vote, it is important that he remain in what direction the vote of each of the Members was, because the Members are responsible for their votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u237	Mr Deputy, unless otherwise indicated, that Member voted in accordance with the way in which his seat was voted—unless otherwise indicated—I believe that this is the only criterion we can follow. in this case, I believe that the question arises only with regard to the vote by Mrs Joacine Katar Moreira for the Bill No 547 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ), which was the second to be voted on. If the honourable Member wishes to indicate the point of vote, it is clear.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u238	Mr President, I voted in favour.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u239	We now vote in the specialty, the Bill No. 570 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Transitional imposition of the mandatory use of mask in public spaces. To that end, we have a supplementary script. I wonder whether we can vote in bloc or whether we can vote in article to article. [[Pause.]] They indicate to me that the vote on the speciality should be made article by article. We therefore vote for Article 1. the draft law. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN and Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues, the vote against the IL and the abstentions of the PCP, the ENP and the Non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We voted for Article 2. the draft law. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN and Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues, the vote against the IL and the abstentions of the PCP, the ENP and the Non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We shall proceed to the vote on the proposal by Mrs Joacine Katar Moreira, who amends Article 3 ( 1 ). o. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the PSD, the BE and the PAN were rejected, votes against the IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the PCP, the CDS-PP and the ENP.]] [[It was as follows: 1 — The use of masks by people over 12 years of age for access, circulation or permanence in public spaces and roads whenever the physical distance recommended by the authorities is impractical.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u240	Let us now vote on Article 3 ( 1 ). the draft law. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN and Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues, the vote against the IL and the abstentions of the PCP, the ENP and the Non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We now have the vote on Article 3 ( 2 ( a ). the draft law. If there is a possibility of aggregation, this would be useful for everyone.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u241	Mr President, we can vote on all Article 3 ( 2 ). o.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u242	Do we vote for all paragraph 2?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u243	I beg your pardon, Mr President, it will not be possible after all.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u244	We therefore vote Article 3 ( 2 ( a ). the draft Law No 570 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ). [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PCP, ENP and IL abstentions.]] We turn to the vote on Article 3 ( 2 ( b ). the draft law. [[Submitted to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN and Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and with abstentions from the PCP, the ENP, the IL and the Non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We vote Article 3 ( 2 ( c ). o. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PAN and Non-registered MP Cristina Rodrigues and PCP, CDS-PP, PEV, IL and MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We also vote on Article 3 ( 2 ( ( d ). the draft law. [[Submitted to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN and Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and with abstentions from the PCP, the ENP, the IL and the Non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We shall vote on Article 3 ( 2 ). the draft law. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN and Non-registered MP Cristina Rodrigues and PCP, ENP, IL and MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] The vote was followed by a proposal submitted by BE for the addition of Article 3. o -A. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, ENP and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the PSD, CDS-PP, PAN and IL.]] [[It was as follows: Article 3a Free distribution of masks in order to ensure the access of the entire population to certified masks, the Government, through public institutions and entities, shall, to the extent available, distribute it free of charge in public spaces and streets.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u245	We voted on the proposal by the NAP to add Article 3. o -A. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the PSD, the CDS-PP and the IL.]] [[It was as follows: Article 3a Free availability of reusable masks The Government, in accordance with the terms to be defined as being able to pass within 5 days from the date of approval of this law, ensures the free availability of reusable masks to all persons who are in public spaces and roads and who are in a situation where this law is not complied with.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u246	Let us now vote on the proposal put forward by BE for the addition of Article 3. o-B. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the CH was recorded.]] [[It is as follows: Article 3b Awareness campaign for the use of masks is carried out awareness campaigns, in the media and with the population, on the importance of the use of masks in public spaces and roads, in order to ensure spontaneous adherence of the population to this and other measures of individual and collective protection.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u247	We are now voting on the proposal put forward by the NAP for the addition of Article 3. o-B. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the CDS-PP abstention.]] [[Article 3b Sensitization for the conscious and responsible use of masks With a view to ensuring the information, understanding and compliance responsible for the use of masks in the context of measures to combat SARS-CoV-2, the Government, in conjunction with local authorities, promotes institutional campaigns to educate and raise awareness among the population regarding the importance of the use of masks in public spaces and roads, as well as to encourage the use of reusable masks and for the correct discard of non-reusable masks.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u248	Having also approved this proposal, there will then be a need to renumber these two articles.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u249	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u250	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u251	Mr President, this article concerns the previous article, although it has a slightly different wording. Therefore, in the final wording it would eventually be the merger of the two, because they are dockable and susceptible to it. However, there will be a request for a waiver of final wording, so perhaps until the end of the vote, it would be useful to make the comparison of a single version, which might be ready at the end of the morning vote, since the two proposals were approved.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u252	Sir, I think we have a little problem here. It is that then, if there is no bass for final editing, we may have the problem of there being a discrepancy in the wording. Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, I have the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u253	Mr President, I would like to point out to the House that since the wording of the two proposals, both the Left Block and the PAN, is basically the same, in these cases, the general rule, and in matters of greater substance, the vote on the second proposal is adversely affected. That is why, and for the purposes of final drafting, the drafting of the proposal submitted by the NAP would be adversely affected.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u254	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u255	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u256	Mr President, we cannot agree with the proposal of the Left Block, since the wording is not exactly the same. However, we are actually available to find a joint text, taking into account that both have been voted on and approved. So, by the end of the session, we have nothing to prevent the drafting of the standard from being harmonized.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u257	You have the floor, Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u258	Mr President, trying to square the circle, I think what is missing in the Left Block proposal is the final thrust of the NAP proposal, which determines the incentive to use reusable masks as well as the correct discard of non-reusable masks. If we could agree and vote on this in the proposal from the Left Block, both of them would be approved by now.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u259	Mr. João Oliveira also asks me for the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u260	Mr President, it is to be clear that this was in fact a process of discussion on the subject under conditions, given the importance of the matter we are dealing with. But objectively we have to vote on a text in which we know what we are voting on, two texts cannot be approved and then there is a 'cut and glue' in which no one knows exactly what is being dealt with.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u261	Mr Pedro Delgado Alves made a concrete proposal. Since the proposal submitted by BE and then the proposal submitted by the NAP were approved, this implies an addition to the text approved in the first proposal, that of BE. Therefore, the solution will be, in the circumstances in which we are, to consider approved the paragraph contained in the NAP proposal, in relation to the BE proposal, and this will have to be the final wording. We shall now vote on the proposal by BE, which amends Article 4. the draft Law No 570 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Transitional imposition of the mandatory use of mask in public spaces. [[Submitted to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN and Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and with abstentions from the PCP, the ENP, the IL and the Non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira.]] [[Article 4 of the Role of the Security Forces and Municipal Police The monitoring of the fulfilment of the obligations provided for in this Act is the responsibility of the security forces and municipal police, and they are primarily responsible for raising awareness and pedagogy for the importance of the use of masks in public spaces and roads where social distance cannot be maintained.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u262	The vote on Article 4 shall therefore be adversely affected. the draft law, so we proceed to the vote on Article 5. o. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, CDS-PP, PAN and non-registered MP Cristina Rodrigues, votes against BE, PCP and IL and abstentions from the ENP and MP not registered Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We shall now vote on Article 6. the draft law. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PSD, CDS-PP, PAN and Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues, votes against BE, PCP, PEV and IL and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We shall proceed to the vote on Article 7. o. [[The vote was put to the vote, with the votes in favour of PS, PSD, CDS-PP, PAN and Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues, the vote against IL and PS Member Isabel Rodrigues and the abstentions of BE, PCP, PEV and Non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We are now voting on a proposal by the PS to amend Article 8. o. [[Submitted to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PSD, CDS-PP, IL and non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues, votes against the NAP and abstained from BE, PCP, PEV and MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] Therefore, the votes of the proposed Article 8 Amendment NAP. Article 8. the constant of the bill is damaged. We shall vote on the proposal submitted by the PS to add an article 9. o. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PS, the PS, the CDS-PP, the PAN and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues, the vote against the IL and the abstentions of BE, the PCP, the ENP and the MP not registered Joacine Katar Moreira.]] Finally, we shall proceed to the comprehensive final vote of Bill No 570 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Transitional imposition of the mandatory use of mask in public spaces. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PS, the PSD, the CDS-PP, the PAN and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues, the vote against the IL and the abstentions of BE, the PCP, the PEV and the Non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u263	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u264	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u265	Mr President, given the simplicity of this diploma and the urgency of the matter, as mentioned earlier, the PSD requires the final drafting waiver and the deadline for submitting complaints against inaccuracies of the bill.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u266	Mr João Oliveira had also asked for the floor in the meantime. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u267	Mr President, I just wanted to announce that we will deliver a statement of vote from the CFP in writing on this vote that we have just done.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u268	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We shall then proceed to the vote on the oral application submitted by Mr Carlos Peixoto of the PSD, requesting the final drafting waiver and the deadline for submitting claims against inaccuracies in respect of the Bill No 570 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Transitional imposition of the mandatory use of mask in public spaces. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PSD, CDS-PP, PAN, IL and Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and Abstaining from BE, PCP, PEV and MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] Thus, there will be exemption from final drafting and from the deadline for submitting claims in respect of Bill 570 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ). We are now going to move on to the main vote script. We begin by voting on the Draft of Deliberation No. 11 / XIV / 2. a ( PAR) — Suspension of parliamentary committees' work during the budgetary procedure. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the CH was recorded.]] Then we vote on draft resolution No 732 / XIV / 2. a ( PAR) — Suspension of the period of operation of the Parliamentary Investigation Committee for the State to act in the award of support in the 2017 Fire sequence in the Interior Pinhal Zone during the period of assessment of the State budget for 2021. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the CH was recorded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u269	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u270	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u271	Mr President, I apologize for being extemporaneous, but we have not recently made a request for the final draft of the final text concerning the two draft laws on electoral matters that we voted on at the beginning, since the work of the committees is suspended, it is a way of ensuring that they can immediately follow. Therefore, I now make this request regarding the final text on the two approved bills, by electronic vote, and which are identified in the script.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u272	All right, Mr. Deputies. Mrs Inês de Sousa Real also asked for the floor. Do you intend to intervene on the same matter?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u273	No, Mr. President. Despite being extemporaneous, I take advantage of this interruption of work to announce that we will deliver a declaration of vote in writing regarding the overall final vote of Bill No 570 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ).
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u274	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We shall then submit to the vote of the House the oral request, submitted by the PS, requesting the waiver of final drafting and the deadline for submitting claims against inaccuracies in respect of the final text, submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, on the Bills No. 505 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) and 549 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) and for the final text submitted by the same Commission on Bill No 547 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ). [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, CDS-PP, PAN, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and Abstaining from BE, PCP and ENP.]] We shall then vote in general on Law No 35 / XIV / 1. a ( ALRAM ) — In defence of the right of hearing of self-government bodies of the Autonomous Regions — First amendment to Law No 40 / 96 of 31 August. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the CH was recorded.]] The bill that has just been voted down to 1. the Commission. We turn to the general vote on the Bill No 36 / XIV / 1. a ( ALRAM ) — Committees of Inquiry of the Legislative Assemblies of the Autonomous Regions — First amendment to Law No 48 / 2014 of 28 July. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the CH was recorded.]] This bill also falls to 1. the Commission. We shall now vote for an application submitted by the PS, requesting the resignation of the Committee on Labour and Social Security, without a 30-day vote of the Proposal for Law No 57 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Transposing Directive ( EU ) 2018 / 958 on a proportionality test to be carried out before the approval of new regulation of professions and the Proposal for a Law No 59 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Simplifies the procedures associated with the recognition of professional qualifications by transposing Directive 2005 / 36 / EC. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the CH was recorded.]] Therefore, these bills are down to 10. the Commission for 30 days. I wonder if we can vote on the next initiative together, in general, in the speciality and in the overall final vote. [[Pause.]] If there is no opposition, we shall vote together, in general, in the speciality and in the overall final vote, on Law No 58 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Authorizes the Government to legislate on the qualification and training of drivers of certain road vehicles for the carriage of goods and passengers by transposing EU Directive 2018 / 645. [[Subject to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of PS, PSD and CDS-PP, votes against the PCP and ENP and abstentions from BE, PAN, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We will now vote, in general, on Bill No. 214 / XIV / 1. a (Citizens) — Treatment of post-mortem assisted medicinal products. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, BE, PCP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against PSD and CDS-PP and abstentions by 5 PS (Eurídice Pereira, Filipe Neto Brandão, Isabel Rodrigues, Maria Joaquina Matos and Romualda Fernandes).]] This bill goes down to 9. the Commission. We proceed to the general vote on Bill No 71 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Amendment to the legal regime of the replacement pregnancy ( Seventh amendment to Law No 32 / 2006 of 26 July ). [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of PS, BE, ENP, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against PSD, PCP and CDS-PP and abstentions from the PAN and 5 PS (Eurídice Pereira, Filipe Neto Brandão, Isabel Rodrigues, Maria Joaquina Matos and Romualda Fernandes).]] This bill also drops to 9. the Commission. We will generally vote for Bill No. 223 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Seventh amendment to Law No 32 / 2006 of 26 July extending the situation of post-mortem insemination. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, BE, PCP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against PSD and CDS-PP and abstentions by 5 PS (Eurídice Pereira, Filipe Neto Brandão, Isabel Rodrigues, Maria Joaquina Matos and Romualda Fernandes).]] This bill goes down to 9. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u275	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u276	Mrs. Member, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u277	Mr President, I would like to announce that I will make a statement of vote in writing on my behalf and on behalf of Mrs Cecilia Meireles.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u278	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We now vote, in general, the Bill No. 231 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Seventh amendment to Law No. 32 / 2006 of 26 July, increasing from three to five cycles of second-line drug procreation treatment assisted, shared by the National Health Service. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and BE were rejected, in favour of the PSD, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the ENP, the IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and NAP abstentions.]] We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 237 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Alter the regime of assisted medicinal product procreation, allowing post mortem insemination to perform a clearly established parental project ( Seventh amendment to Law No 32 / 2006 of 26 July ). [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, BE, PCP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against PSD and CDS-PP and abstentions by 5 PS (Eurídice Pereira, Filipe Neto Brandão, Isabel Rodrigues, Maria Joaquina Matos and Romualda Fernandes).]] This bill goes down to 9. the Commission. We now proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 247 / XIV / 1. a ( NAP) — Ensure access to the pregnancy of replacement by amending Law No 32 / 2006 of 26 July ( assisted drug procreation ). [[Submitted to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of PS, BE, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against PSD, PCP and CDS-PP and abstentions by 5 PS (Eurídice Pereira, Filipe Neto Brandão, Isabel Rodrigues, Maria Joaquina Matos and Romualda Fernandes).]] This bill that has just been approved is also low to 9. the Commission. Now, we generally vote for Bill No. 572 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Determines the circumstances in which post-mortem insemination is permitted and amends Law No 32 / 2006 of 26 July on assisted medicinal product procreation. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, BE, PCP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against PSD and CDS-PP and abstentions by 5 PS (Eurídice Pereira, Filipe Neto Brandão, Isabel Rodrigues, Maria Joaquina Matos and Romualda Fernandes).]] The bill we just voted down to 9. the Commission. We will now vote for the General State Account for 2018. [[Subject to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of PS, BE, PCP and ENP, votes against the CDS-PP and IL and abstentions from PSD, PAN and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u279	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u280	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u281	Mr President, I would just like to inform you that I will present, on my own behalf and on behalf of Mrs Margarida Balsairo Lopes, a statement of vote on the projects related to assisted medicinal procreation.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u282	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We shall now proceed to the vote, in general, on a bill signed by all parliamentary groups. I wonder if we can vote on it together in general, in the field of expertise and in the overall final vote. [[Pause.]] If there is no opposition, then we shall vote together, in general, in the speciality and in the overall final vote, the Bill No. 556 / XIV / 2. a ( PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, and PEV ) — First amendment to Law No 103 / 2019 of 6 September. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the CH was recorded.]] We shall vote on resolution No 2 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Convention between the Portuguese Republic and the Republic of Kenya to Eliminate Double Taxation on Income Tax and Prevent Fraud and Tax Evasion, signed in Lisbon on 10 July 2018. [[Submitted to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PSD, CDS-PP, PAN, IL and Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and Abstaining from BE, PCP, PEV and MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] The overall vote on the motion for a resolution No 3 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Convention for the Creation of the Square Kilometer Array Observatory, signed in Rome, on 12 March 2019. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstention of the IL.]] We shall now vote in a global vote on Resolution No 4 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Agreement between the Portuguese Republic and the Republic of Croatia on Defence Cooperation, signed in Lisbon on 10 July 2019. [[Submitted to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PSD, CDS-PP, PAN, IL and Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and Abstaining from BE, PCP, PEV and MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We turn to the overall vote on the motion for a resolution No 6 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Protocol to the Convention on Forced or Compulsory Work, 1930, adopted by the General Conference of the International Labour Organization at its 103. the Session, held in Geneva, on 11 June 2014. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the CH was recorded.]] We shall vote on resolution No 11 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Agreement between the Portuguese Republic and the United States of America on Share of Lost or Equivalent Valued Goods signed in Lisbon on 17 December 2019. [[Submitted to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PSD, CDS-PP, PAN, IL and Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and Abstaining from BE, PCP, PEV and MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We continue with the overall vote on the motion for a resolution No 13 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Agreement on Air Transport between the Portuguese Republic and the Kingdom of the Netherlands on Curacao, signed in Lisbon on 25 June 2019. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the CH was recorded.]] We will vote for the Resolution Project No 700 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN ) — Recommends that the Government intercede for displaced refugees from the former Moria camp ( Greece ). [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the CH was recorded.]] The general vote of Bill No. 196 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Change the composition of the National Council of Firefighters, enabling the representation of the Portuguese Association of Volunteer Firefighters ( 1 ). the amendment to Decree-Law No 45 / 2019 of 1 April ). [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PS and CDS-PP abstentions.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill we just voted down to 1. the Commission. We now vote, in general, the Bill No. 203 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Change the composition of the National Council of Firefighters, regulated by Decree-Law No 45 / 2019 of 1 April ( 1 ). the amendment to Decree-Law No 45 / 2019 of 1 April ). [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PS and CDS-PP abstentions.]] This bill also goes down to 1. the Commission. We proceed with the general vote on draft resolution No 592 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends to the Government the approval of the National Strategy for the Prevention and Treatment of Anemia and consecrated on 26 November as the National Day of Anemia. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the CH was recorded.]] The draft resolution is down to 9. the Commission. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I wonder if we can vote together on the remaining draft resolutions on the same subject as the draft resolution we just voted on. [[Pause.]] As there is no objection, we will vote together, in general, the Resolution Projects Nos 680 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Consecrates the date of November 26 as the National Anemia Day and recommends that the Government approve a National Strategy for the Prevention and Treatment of Anemia, 691 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Recommends that the Government study the creation of a national strategy on anemia and 720 / XIV / 2. a (BE) — Recommends that the Government establish a national plan to combat anemia. [[When put to the vote, they were adopted unanimously and the absence of the CH was recorded.]] These draft resolutions are down to 9. the Commission. The vote was followed by the vote on the budget of the Assembly of the Republic for 2021. [[The vote was taken in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and IL.]] We shall vote on a request by the CFP, of a lawyer, of the plenary, of the vote, in the specialty, of amendments tabled by that party on Articles 9. a and 10. the Law No 55 / 2012 of 6 September, as set out in Article 5. o Law No 44 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Transposing Directive ( EU ) 2018 / 1808, of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 November 2018 on the provision of audiovisual media services. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the CH was recorded.]] Mrs. Members, with the approval of the request we have just voted on, as is customary, each parliamentary group has two minutes to decide on the matter, if it so wishes. If possible, I would ask that the time grid be affixed to our table so that we can control the timing of the interventions. I begin by giving the floor to the proposer. Therefore, Mrs Ana Mesquita has the floor on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u283	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Advocates brought to plenary by the CFP address fundamental questions on the financing of Portuguese cinema. We defend that the State must be responsible for the financing of the ICA (Instituto do Cinema e do Audiovisual, IP ) and the Cinemateca and propose that it do so with general revenue from the State budget, not only setting up an operating budget, but also an investment budget, with basic revenue for film creation, which goes beyond the existing rates. Unfortunately, this proposal from the CFP was rejected in the specialty. So let us bring it here today, because it is crucial for the encouragement to create cinema in our country. We propose that audiovisual service operators on request, on subscription, pay an annual rate, but not 1 %. We believe that this rate must be at least 2 % of its relevant income. But as this is not enough, we still propose that there should be increases in other rates already planned and that it should be extended to audiovisual services on request or to non-linear audiovisual services. And this is the case of the proposal that we make of an increase to 5 % of the rate of advertising display and an increase of 3, 5 € of subscription of the annual rate of access to audiovisual services, which is the charge of operators. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the speciality process we live in in the Commission has been clearly insufficient and has left serious contradictions in the final text. Nevertheless, it is possible to improve, in particular, with the proposals of the CFP to be approved, and to give an incentive here to what is cinematographic production in our country, which cannot remain abandoned and which cannot only be referred to at rates which will hardly be charged, in the way that the Socialist Party, the Government and the various parliamentary groups have not approved the CFP proposals in the field—have left the final text. So here are the lawyers that would certainly contribute to the increase of cinema in our country and have an incentive. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u284	Mrs Beatriz Gomes Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u285	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Since the discussion of the State Budget for 2020 that the Left Block has put forward proposals to strengthen public investment in cinema and audiovisual media, extending revenue sources to new digital platforms, proposals which the Socialist Party has rejected until the last hour. When he realized the impact and indignation caused by the tax “barla” that offered these multinationals, the PS partially retreated, but much remained to be done. In the context of the economic and social crisis, the review of the Cinema Law was the perfect opportunity to guarantee new means to the sector and to enable it to resist and recover, by increasing the rates to increase the financial capacity of the ICA and the Cinemateca, but also of the National Cinema Plan (PNC), the Portuguese theatre and cinema network (RTCP) and the film network. All these proposals were rejected by the PS and the right. It was a missed opportunity. The Left Block will resubmit proposals for its review. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u286	Mr. José Magalhães has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u287	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: One absolutely certain thing is that the idea of creating a rate of 1% started from the Socialist Party. There is no doubt whatsoever. This was the result of a debate we had in the Commission, it is original at European level —...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u288	But it's little!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u289	...I don't know if you've noticed, but you're gonna have time to do it — and, on the other hand, we've got improvements. And I'm just sorry that, since we proposed that there should be a lapse of copy paste practised by the services, the PCP has opposed this, which has as a consequence...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u290	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u291	Madam Member, it is not 'no, no, no', that is what I am saying! In other words, it is absurd in this matter that, by a whim and by a beer, the law leaves here with a standard put in the wrong place. This standard refers only to that rate as provided for in paragraph 5 which does not apply to operators of audiovisual services on request with a low turnover or with low hearings. That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u292	It's nothing like that!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u293	Mrs. Deputy is the author of a lapse. It is a great reason for pride and honour only the traditions of the PCP. We therefore find it to be absolutely regrettable!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u294	Sorry, that's what you guys did!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u295	And we will also have an opportunity, at our own place, by perhaps even a budgetary knight, to correct this without any problem. in this regard, I would just like to point out that the system we have created is a mixed system. It is not a bureaucratic system, it is not a system that confers all powers and only powers to an ICA jury, which must, in fact, be rethinked. It is a solution that we thought, we will, listen to sector n times, with a process that is all on the Internet.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u296	It was under pressure!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u297	Therefore, anyone who wants to know and analyze each of the proposals presented are there in full, as this debate will also be. And, in this matter, each one remains in his own. We regret that we have not reached any more consensus, but you can present a project by tomorrow morning, with another solution, and insist on it. [[Protests by the MP of the PCP Ana Mesquita and the MEP of BE Beatriz Gomes Dias.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u298	Mr. Paulo Rios de Oliveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u299	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: To join an incompetent minister and a non-existent Secretary of State, we had a politically incipient bill. What has come to Parliament was in fact to waste the great opportunity that was brought to us by this directive, a great opportunity for Portuguese cinema and audiovisual. The work done in Parliament was highly meritorious and in which the PSD was involved, trying to introduce some ambition and respond to the industry's hopes and expectations. In addition to trying to improve the document, we made a serious effort not to make it worse, which forced us to lead a number of proposals, particularly from the so-called 'left'. Therefore, the final result we have is not the final result we would like to have, it is not the document that the PSD would like to present, but we are sure that the document we are voting today is much better — which was not difficult either — than what the document offered us. But here you are, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the last thing we are going to do at this stage is make the document worse by accessing these claims, since the PSD has never accompanied the taxation of the way the CFP suggested it. We will therefore vote consistently against it. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u300	No further registrations are being made, we shall proceed to the vote. I wonder if we can vote together on the various proposals for amendments to the CFP. [[Pause.]] With no objection, we shall vote in particular and together on the proposals submitted by the CFP to replace Article 9. the amendment to Article 10 (1), (2), (4) and (5). the Law No 55 / 2012 of 6 September, as set out in Article 5. the final text on the Proposal for a Law No 44 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and other non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and the non-registered MP Cristina Rodrigues.]] [[They were as follows: ‘Article 9 [...] 1 — The State shall ensure the financing of incentive and support measures for the development of film art and audiovisual sector, in accordance with the terms laid down in this Law and in the diplomas which regulate it, by collecting fees, establishing investment obligations and establishing a operating budget and an investment budget within the budget of the State, allocated to the Institute of Cinema and Audiovisual (ICA, IP) and to the Portuguese Cinema - Cinema Museum (Cinemateca, IP). 2 — The formulas for financing the operating budget of the ICA, IP, and Cinemateca, IP, shall be approved by decree on an annual basis and shall ensure all structural costs of those entities. 3 — The investment budget shall be entered annually in the State budget and its value shall be equal to the forecast of the value earned by the levying of the rate provided for in Article 10 for the same year, in addition to that. Article 10 [...] 1 — Commercial advertising displayed in cinemas, audiovisual commercial communication broadcast or transmitted by television operators or, by any means, transmitted by distribution operators, audiovisual commercial communication included in audiovisual services on request and video sharing platforms, as well as advertising included in electronic programming guides, whatever the display platform, broadcast or transmission, is subject to a rate, called the display rate, which constitutes the advertiser’s charge, of 5% on the price paid. 2 — Operators of subscription television services, audiovisual service on request or non-linear audiovisual service are subject to payment of an annual fee of three euros and fifty cents for each subscription for access to television services, which is a charge of operators. 3 —... 4 — Paragraph 1 shall apply to broadcast or submitted audiovisual commercial communications and, television services, without audiovisual services on request and on video sharing platforms and on programmes by those broadcast or made available, even if these services are under the jurisdiction of another Member State, in respect of profits made on the national market. 5 — Audiovisual service operators upon request for subscription are subject to the payment of an annual rate of 2% of the relevant profits of those operators.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u301	Let us now proceed to the overall final vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on Culture and Communication on the Proposal for a Law No 44 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Transposing Directive ( EU ) 2018 / 1808, of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 November 2018 on the provision of audiovisual media services. [[Subject to the vote, the votes against the PCP, the ENP, the IL and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and the PSD, BE, CDS-PP and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues were adopted with votes in favour of the PS and PAN.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u302	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u303	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u304	Mr President, it is only to announce that I will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u305	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u306	Mr President, it is in order to request the waiver of final drafting and the deadline for complaints regarding this final text.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u307	Mr President, we shall vote on this request later.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u308	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u309	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u310	Mr President, it is to announce that we intend to make an oral vote at the end of the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u311	All right, Mr. Deputies. Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u312	Mr President, it is to announce that we will deliver a written statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u313	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr. Paulo Rios de Oliveira, do you ask for the same word?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u314	Yes, Mr President, it is also to announce that we will deliver a written vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u315	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, do you ask for the same word?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u316	Yes, Mr President, we will deliver a written vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u317	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mr Pedro Delgado Alves, for what effect do you ask for the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u318	To announce, Mr President, that we shall deliver a written statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u319	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs Joacine Katar Moreira asks for the same word?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u320	Yes, Mr President, I will hand over a written vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u321	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We shall now vote on the oral request submitted by Mr Pedro Delgado Alves ( PS ), requesting the waiver of final drafting and the deadline for submitting claims against inaccuracies in respect of the final text, submitted by the Committee on Culture and Communication, on the Proposal for a Law No 44 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ). [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PSD, CDS-PP, PAN, IL and Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and Abstaining from BE, PCP, PEV and MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We shall proceed to the comprehensive final vote of the final text, submitted by the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members, on draft Law No 471 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Amend the Annex to Law No 52 / 2019 of 31 July by harmonizing the content of the Single Declaration of Income, Heritage, Interests, Incompatibilities and Impediments with the respective form. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PSD and IL and abstained from BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u322	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u323	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u324	Mr President, it is to announce that I will present a written statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u325	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mr Pedro Delgado Alves, ask for the floor, for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u326	Mr President, it is in order to request the waiver of final drafting and the deadline for complaints regarding this final text.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u327	We shall then vote on this oral request by Mr Pedro Delgado Alves ( PS ), requesting the waiver of final drafting and the deadline for submitting claims against inaccuracies relatively from the final text, submitted by the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members on draft Law No 471 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ). [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PSD, CDS-PP, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and abstains from BE, PCP, PAN and ENP.]] Let us now proceed to the overall final vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on Labour and Social Security on draft resolutions Nos 279 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — A rigorous study on the reality of child labour in Portugal, with a view to its total eradication and 289 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government prepare a national study on child labour. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the CH was recorded.]] Mrs. Members, the vote is followed by the vote on the opinions of the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members, whose offices are identified in the vote script. [[When put to the vote, they were adopted unanimously and the absence of the CH was recorded.]] Now it is time to give the floor to Mrs Ana Mesquita of the CFP to give an oral vote on the final text tabled by the Committee on Culture and Communication on the Proposal for a Law No 44 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Transposing Directive ( EU ) 2018 / 1808, of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 November 2018 on the provision of audiovisual media services. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u328	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : The legislative process concerning the proposed government law implementing the directive on the provision of audiovisual media services has been completed today. The CFP voted against the initial vote and now also in the final vote. It was a faster process than the shadow itself. Who did you serve and serve all this haste? It is that she is an enemy of the defense of Portuguese cinema and symbolizes the abdicating of sovereignty and submission to market interests and to the large groups operating in it. The enormous contradictions and inadequacies that marked the Government's bill have not been corrected in the final text. Did things go wrong? But they were voted on. The problem was the rush of the PS and of all who gave way to the request for postponement proposed by the PCP on more than one occasion. There were those who said — and we still hear that today — that the government's text was so bad, so bad that it could not get worse. But this is not true, because, in some respects, it gets effectively worse. Yes, it is in favour of multinationals and online platforms, severely penalizing Portuguese cinema and independent production, which are amputated from their free creation and are subject to the foraties imposed by the co-productions of those who have all means and only seek to accumulate more and more and more profit. The result is a confusing, contradictory final text that does not allow the resolution of the major problems that have been identified. This is because the proposals that helped to solve them, in particular the CFP proposals, were systematically rejected by the PS and the PSD, which gave the hand in the field of specialty. All the proposals presented by the CFP in defence of producers, directors, national works, the increase in the percentage to be applied in investment obligations, the exclusion of the possibility of interference of audiovisual service operators, on request, in cinema production through co-production and many more were rejected. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, lose free artistic creation, gain the market in its most neoliberal dimension. I am sorry that this is precisely the objective to be achieved by those who have dynamized and approved this legislative initiative. In fact, the rejection of the CFP proposal which we have now brought to plenary and which defends that, beyond the rates and obligations of investment, there must be a fundamental dimension that characterizes a real public service of culture.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u329	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u330	I will finish, Mr. President. And this means general statements from the State budget that finance the ICA, the Cinemateca and public support for film creation.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u331	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u332	We can tax large groups and multinationals, but justice will never be done as long as our taxes are to cover the holes of the bank, to PPP (public-private partnerships) ruinous and there is not a penny for public service of culture on the part of the cinema. It is this battle, in defense of the arts and culture, that the CFP will continue to block with all those with us who want to take that path. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u333	Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, you asked for the word for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u334	Mr President, asking for the pardon of the Bureau, I mean that the CDS Parliamentary Group has identified a mistake in its votes. Unfortunately, in an electronic vote on the final text on Bill No 547 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ), the five members of the CDS voted against when they should have voted in favour. I wonder if it is still possible to change the sense of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u335	Madam Member, it is at least possible to register in the Journal of the Assembly of the Republic that this delay has existed. Therefore, this politically has its meaning. Mr Pedro Delgado Alves also asked for the floor. To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u336	Mr. President, also apologizing for being extemporaneous, it was to request the waiver of final drafting and the time limit of claims in respect of the Bill No 58 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ), previously approved.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u337	We shall then vote on the oral application submitted by Mr Pedro Delgado Alves ( PS ), requesting the waiver of final drafting and the deadline for submitting claims against inaccuracies in respect of the Bill No 58 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Authorizes the Government to legislate on the qualification and training of drivers of certain road vehicles for the carriage of goods and passengers by transposing Directive ( EU ) 2018 / 645. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the CH was recorded.]] A short time ago I quickly referred to the case file on the Ethics Committee. However, the procedures should be identified, so I ask Secretary Nelson Peralta to take note of these opinions, which need to be voted on. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u338	Mr. President and Mr. Members, three opinions have been received from the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members. The first is to authorize Mr Ascenso Simões ( PS ) to intervene in the course of proceedings under IGAI ( General Inspection of Internal Administration ). The second is to authorize Mr Paulo Pisco ( PS ) to intervene within the scope of the procedure to run terms in the IGAI. The third is in order to authorize Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro ( PS ) to intervene in the course of proceedings to be brought under the terms of Judge 1 — Central Criminal Court of Santarém — Court of Justice of the Comarca de Santarém.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-23.u339	Of course it is the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members and not the Committee on Ethics. That correction will also remain. Mrs. Members, the next plenary session will take place on Tuesday 27, beginning at 3 p.m. on the agenda of the general debate of the Bill No 60 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Major Options Act for 2021 - 2023 and Bill No. 61 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Approves the State budget for 2021. The session is closed. [[It was 14 hours and 18 minutes.]]
