ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 2 minutes.]] Mrs. Authorities, I ask you to open the gallery doors to the public. Before we get on the agenda, Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha will read the file. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u2	Mr President, very late for everyone. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members have entered the Bureau and several legislative initiatives have been admitted. I refer, first, to Bill Nos 220 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Regulates the right of association of the staff of the Maritime Police ( First Amendment to Law No 9 / 2008 of 19 February ), 221 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Amends Decree-Law No 96/89 of 28 March, which establishes the International Register of Madeira Ships, which falls to 7. the Commission, and 222 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Prohibition of night flights except for force majeure, which falls to 11. the Commission in connection with 6. the Commission. They also entered the Bureau, and were admitted, Resolution Projects No. 271 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government promote the review of the Albufeira Convention, present the results of the analysis of the adequacy of the current hydrometeorological monitoring network and make public the results of the monitoring of the implementation of the plans in the 2016-2021 hydrological planning framework, as well as the strategic assumptions that will define the significant deepening of bilateral cooperation for the planning cycle 2021 - 2027, which falls to 11. the Commission, 272 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Need to resume the requalification works of the High School John of Barros, Corroios, 273 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Revoks the transfer of works of art from the National Car Museum to the hotel group Vila Galé, which goes down to 12. the Commission, 274 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Moratorium for the installation of intensive and superintensive olive and almonds, which falls to 7. the Commission, 276 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Information, intensive and urgent, to the public about the coronavirus, which goes down to 9. the Commission, 277 / XIV / 1. a (PEV) — For a new health center in Upper Seixalinho, in Barreiro, 280 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — by the speedy construction of the new Hospital de Lagos, 285 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recommends to the Government the hiring of gestal-language interpreters for public services, which falls to 13. the Commission, and 286 / XIV / 1. a ( CFP ) — Recommends that the Government take measures to ensure the economic and financial sustainability of Community pharmacies, which falls to 9. the Commission. I am now announcing the results of the elections that took place last Friday. As regards the election of two judges to the Constitutional Court, the following result was found: they voted 219 Members, and 93 votes were recorded, 96 white votes and 30 null votes. in these terms, the proposed candidates are considered not elected. As regards the election of the President of the Economic and Social Council, the following result was found: they voted 219 Members, and 110 votes 'yes' were recorded, 82 white votes and 27 null votes. in these terms, the proposed candidate is considered not to be elected. With regard to the election of seven votes (and alternates) to the Supreme Council of the Magistracy, the following result was found: they voted 219 Members, with 138 votes 'yes' recorded, 63 white votes and 18 null votes. in these terms, the proposed candidates are considered not elected. Finally, Mr. President and Mr. Members, the draft resolution No 231 / XIV / 1 was withdrawn by the proposer. a ( PCP ) — for the speedy construction of the new Hospital de Lagos.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u3	Let us then turn to the agenda, which is part of the debate with the Prime Minister, under Article 224 ( a ). the Regiment, on prevention and containment of the epidemic COVID-19. To open the debate, Mr Prime Minister has spoken.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: at this time when the world faces the threat posed by the coronavirus, I want to appeal to all Portuguese people to the surveillance and adoption of responsible behaviors, but also a message of serenity and confidence in our public health authorities and in the National Health Service ( SNS ). As you are aware, Portugal has recorded, at the beginning of this week, the first positive cases of the COVID-19 disease and, of course, my first word is of solidarity to those who are ill or infected with the virus and also to their relatives, friends and all those with whom they have contacted. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Since the first hour, everything has been done to ensure an adequate response and to ensure that we prepare ourselves as best we can to deal with this epidemic. That was what we did, of course, in the return operation of the Portuguese who were in Wuhan and then in creating conditions for them to remain in prophylactic isolation for 14 days, as well as in diplomatic support to our fellow citizens who were on the boat docked in Japan. However, the Directorate-General of Health has been setting up a progressive and proportional response device. On 31 January, a task force for the disease was established and three reference hospitals were immediately activated: Curry Cabral and Dona Estefânia, in Lisbon, and São João, in Porto. Yesterday, I had the opportunity to visit the latter, having found the professionalism, normality and sense of responsibility with which you are responding to this situation. [[P.S.'s applause.]] INEM ( National Institute of Medical Emergency) booked ambulances dedicated to the transport of patients suspected of having contracted the virus. The Health Line 24 was strengthened with more than 100 nurses and a new Medical Support Line ( AML ) was created, which has proved essential in clarifying and advising health professionals, as well as in validating suspected cases. The National Council of Public Health, a body vital to the framework of decisions to be taken in the face of large-scale outbreaks, and the Directorate-General for Health has been issuing a set of technical guidelines on prevention, control and surveillance measures to be adopted at this stage in various areas of action, including as regards workplaces or maritime and air transport. on flights from China and, more recently, Italy are also already implementing some preventive measures, including the collection of passenger contacts with a view to their location if necessary. With five positive cases up to now, we are still in a phase of epidemic containment, although this is already an extended containment. This means that the initially mobilized means have been progressively strengthened. Thus, four second-line hospitals have already been activated and there are six other hospitals in a state of readiness. About 2000 isolation beds are identified which can be made available, 300 of which are in intensive care. There are already eight laboratories that have been able to test the new coronavirus. The National Health Service has a strategic reserve of 2 million masks and other personal protective equipment, to which is added a stock of 1, 6 million masks of the Portuguese Red Cross, which are intended to be used essentially by health professionals and people infected or in a state of evaluation, since their use by the general population is not advised. The drug stock of the National Health Service was also strengthened by about 20 %. But besides the health system, there are other areas in which it is important to be prepared. Therefore, last Monday, a commission was published determining that all public services draw up, within five working days, specific contingency plans in the light of the technical guidelines defined by the Directorate-General for Health. The National Civil Protection Commission met yesterday in order to assess the level of readiness and to define the prevention, preparation and response actions that all competent entities must adopt in the various possible scenarios of the evolution of this epidemic. This Commission is now in permanent operation, to monitor the progress of the situation and to take appropriate action at any time. in other words, we also wanted to safeguard the labour rights of those who, for public health reasons, cannot or should not appear in their respective workplaces, by decision of a public health authority, continuing to receive their entire salary, both in the public sector and in the private sector. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are aware of the negative impact the current epidemic may also have on the behaviour of the world economy, particularly in the tourism sector. The Eurogroup, which met today by teleconference, is closely monitoring economic and financial developments, together with the European Commission and the European Central Bank, with the availability to use the full flexibility of the Stability and Growth Pact ( CFP ), in order to have a coordinated response to the euro area level. In Portugal, we will disclose by 15 April the new growth estimates for 2020 and subsequent years, and we will not fail to reflect this risk in the projection to be presented. In any case, it is important to remember that the Portuguese economy was the one that best resisted economic slowdown last year, even though it was the economy whose growth has accelerated most at the end of the year, which enables us to face the current situation with serenity. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The Minister of State, Economics and Digital Transition had already had the opportunity to meet with the main business associations to make a point of view and seek ways to minimize the effects of this epidemic. To date, the economic impact on Portuguese companies has been moderate or reduced. Significant breaks are not expected in the supply chains of components, until China is already taking up its industrial activity. Only in the tourism, travel and events sector has there been a search breakdown and some cancellations, the impact of which will truly depend on the duration and severity of the epidemic outbreak on a global scale. We will therefore continue to monitor the situation and, if necessary, we are in a position to launch a line of credit for company treasury support in the initial amount of EUR 100 million. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The priority of public health at the moment must be the prevention of the risk of contamination with a view to the containment of the epidemic. The protocol of action may vary depending on its severity and the evolution of the epidemic in our country, from hospitalization to prophylactic isolation at home, or even quarantine by determination of the competent authorities. I would like to recall that both the Basic Health Act 34, and Law 81/2009, provide for the exceptional possibility of the «... separation of persons who are not ill (...) in order to prevent possible spread of infection or contamination. Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” There is therefore sufficient legal framework for the adoption of the measures that are necessary to prevent the infection in a Community transmission scenario of the virus.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u5	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u6	Such measures must, of course, always observe the principle of proportionality, being adopted gradually and only in case of need, even because the worst virus is even that of the social alarm.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u7	All right! That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u8	In this regard, I would like to praise the civilism that the Portuguese have shown and the sense of responsibility they have been able to deal with this phenomenon. I would also like to thank all the efforts and mobilization of health professionals, which I have been able, in fact, to witness directly on several occasions over the past few days, and to express full confidence in their work. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is therefore with a sense of risk but with confidence that we must live this moment. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u9	You have the floor to ask Mr. Prime Minister Mr. Rui Rio of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u10	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, I have heard your speech, which was an optimistic intervention—I will not say irritantly optimistic, but it is optimistic—and I hope, of course, that you are right and that things are as you are saying. however, if the situation gets worse, obviously it will be an exponential phenomenon, therefore, it will quickly grow very much. What we have heard does not exactly coincide with what Mr. Prime Minister mentioned here. We've heard there's no materials in hospitals. I just said I don't know how many million masks in stock, but what we've heard is that there's a lack of material. What we have heard is that there is a certain discoordination and a certain inability to respond to the Health Line 24 ; we read, including, that they gave advice to the people who were with the infected Chilean writer who took only the temperature and didn't need to do anything else. This is when it is suspected that, even asymptomatic, the virus can be passed on from one person to the other. He mentioned here recently that, at airports, to those coming from China and Italy, there is special care. The information we have is that this is true, in the cases of those who come from China, but for those who come from Italy, no. That is, this special care was so far only for those who came from China. So I ask you whether this is really the case and whether this care has been extended to those from Italy, since one of the biggest vulnerabilities you hear about is precisely the fact that at airports things are not working as they should. On the other hand, the Director-General of Health says that we can reach a million infected people, but we will reach about 20,000, certainly. So, knowing in advance that we will go to quite large numbers, the question I ask you is: is there really a contingency plan? If there is, what is the contingency plan? It is that what Mr. Prime Minister mentions are some measures, but they are not properly articulated, in the event of exponential growth in the epidemic. Mr Prime Minister said that there are two or three back-up hospitals—I do not know whether you spoke in two or three — but I think there cannot be only two or three back-up hospitals, there must be a plan in which all the hospitals are in the back-up. That is the point. When he talks in 2000 beds available for isolation, I hope so, but where are they? I do not see exactly where those 2000 beds might be right now. I also wonder how the link with the Armed Forces will be made, either for the Armed Forces hospitals, or for the transport of patients who have to be transported in an isolated way—and it will be complicated if, indeed, this will grow as it may grow. As for the masks, he says there are masks in stock, but we have information in the opposite direction. Is a mass production of the necessary equipment planned, which is not just the masks? The central hospitals, in which I am thinking of giving themselves exactly the opposite, are safeguarded. I wonder if the least important cases are in the back-up hospitals so that central hospitals can provide assistance to people who need intensive care? That is to say, everything Mr. Prime Minister says has an optimistic heart and I hope that it will be, but it is up to us, since he has brought this issue here. — clearly put these questions to Mr Prime Minister to say what is being done or, if not yet, so that it can be done in a timely manner. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u11	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister, Antonio Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u12	Mr President, Mr Rui Rio, my description is not optimistic, it is purely factual. It is a description of what has been done and of what the situation is at this time. Obviously, we politicians always have the temptation to want to overlap with our opinions to whom they really know. However, I think that good experience tells us that, in such matters, we should have the humility to listen to who knows and does not override our view of who knows. [[P.S.'s applause.]] For me, the Government will take all measures that are determined by the World Health Organization and, in particular, by the Directorate-General for Health. It is the one responsible for defining the degree of intervention that must be adopted in each case and that is how we will do it. Therefore, I do not discuss the advice given by those who respond to the Health Line 24, in the same way that I do not discuss the prescription that my doctor passes to me, nor what to do. I trust the doctor and I follow your doctor's advice and I must tell you that my health has been successful in this practice. If this is not the one that follows, I highly recommend that you follow the advice of your doctor or those who give you the Health Line 24. [[CH's laughs.]] Regarding the stock of existing masks, he said: there are 2 million masks in stock, there are another 1, 6 million in the Portuguese Red Cross, which, of course, are being used, as should strictly in the necessary cases, not being recommended for widespread use by the population. They are being used, above all, by health professionals, by those who are infected or by those who are in an evaluation situation. With regard to flights from Italy, since the beginning of this week which has taken exactly the same measure as it was already in force in respect of flights from China : obtaining contacts from all passengers, identifying passengers who are in a state of suspicion, all passengers who have been seated in their vicinity and their crews, so that there is an active information on the care that people should have in those circumstances. Finally, the reservation of beds at national level is 2000, distributed by the country and will be mobilised according to needs. at this time, we have five confirmed cases, we have little more evaluation situation and, therefore, the use of the whole is not justified. They will be mobilized according to your need. As you know, I was at the Hospital of St. John yesterday and had the opportunity to speak directly to those responsible for the infection service and see—through the glass—the patients who are hospitalized, having contacted the one who had the positive case. The answer that the doctors gave me was that, if there is this exponential growth, for the generality of the situations, what will be recommended will not even be hospital admission, but, on the contrary, house-guarded isolation, as happens with the common flu. Only in critical situations should there be transportation to the hospital, in case of need of hospital care, which, for now, does not happen. Patients who are currently hospitalized are not for clinical reasons, but because there is a capacity in hospitals, there is a lower risk of spreading the epidemic. This is essentially why they are hospitalized and not because of their clinical situation, which seems to be evolving positively. Finally, I believe that the Director-General of Health had the opportunity to clarify, on Saturday morning, the difference between scenarios and forecasts in the exercises of creating scenarios for the design of contingency measures in epidemiological matters. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u13	Mr Rui Rio continues to use the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u14	Mr. Prime Minister, I hope that's what you say. We're waiting. This is not the subject on which opposition is worth the effort. It is a serious matter and therefore the PSD is, of course, available to help in something, if it can, and will certainly not cooperate in the public alarm. [[PSD applause.]] Let me put another question to you on the agenda on a subject which will be discussed in Parliament this week and which has to do with the amendment to the so-called law of public-private partnerships (PPP). We all know the misfortune that some public-private partnerships have represented for Portugal. The Portuguese will pay, this year, according to the State budget which presented here, EUR 1500 million of taxes to pay income from public-private partnerships, and it has already been EUR 2000 million per year. If you look at your five budgets, you will spend the EUR 8 billion of taxes paid for public-private partnerships and, in that sense, we are not talking about anything less. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u15	The government has decided to amend the law in the sense of greater opacity and discretion. It has empowered the Minister of Finance to control future public-private partnerships; the assumptions for making a PPP are defined on a case-by-case basis and therefore have emerged from the law; the economic-financial criteria are also defined ad hoc, and are not previously defined and equal, or tendentially equal, parameters for all circumstances; much less elements are required to instruct the process and even removed, because the decree is in force, housing. To make this situation worse, the PSD has asked the Minister for Finance to explain whether he agrees with it or not — I doubt he is — but, finally, he has not come, because the Socialist Party has done everything to ensure that the Minister for Finance does not come here. We have now also learned that the quarterly PPP reports have not been published — for a year now that they have not been published. In the meantime, there is a criticism of the European Commission and the Court of Auditors itself. So my question is this: Mr. Prime Minister, what is the advantage of taking the PPPs out of the control of the Minister of Finance? What is the advantage of greater discretion and greater opacity? Why does the housing sector, in particular, have to stay out of the law? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u16	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u17	Mr. President, Mr. Rui Rio. Firstly, the Minister of Finance — because it is not the Minister of Finance, Mr Centeno — is not, in any way, diminished, from now on, because the proposals to be submitted to the Council of Ministers are the Minister of Finance. Secondly, the control by UTAP ( Technical Unit for Project Monitoring ) continues, since it is from its technical analysis that Mr Finance's proposals are promoted. There is no less opacity, because there is more publicity, since control, rather than being made by the two eyes of the Minister of Finance, is made by the eyes of all government members.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u18	We're clear!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u19	I've always heard that four eyes look better than two, but perhaps the gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen think otherwise. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Secondly, the publicity of the assessment is made at three times: at the time of the preparation of the partnership, at the launch of the tender and at the stage of award. After that, the criteria are no longer opaque. Why are they adjusted to each case? They are adjusted to each case because the criteria for making a PPP on a highway are surely different from what is required for a PPP for the construction of a hospital or any other type of activity. As regards the circumstances of housing, it is essentially justified by the urgency to respond positively to a housing crisis that exists in our country and, above all, not to create any kind of confusion—which, by misinterpretation of the law, was being created—to interpret as PPP another type of partnership to which, in particular, municipalities resort, as you know, after 12 years as an illustrious author of the city of Porto. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u20	Mr Rui Rio, from the PSD, continues to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u21	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, I can say that four eyes look better than two, until I can say that six eyes see better than four or better than two, but I do not subscribe to it as to such a large government, with so many, so many eyes, that they are already more eyes looking at something very technical and that has to be very strict. [[PSD applause.]] Financial criteria, irrespective of the sector, must of course be profitability criteria, because PPP requires a business. And what does that mean? That means they win both sides. Now, in many PPPs made by governments of the Socialist Party only one part won, which was the private part. So that's what we're trying to avoid. [[PSD applause.]] But allow me, Prime Minister, to use the time I have left to ask you another question that has also been on the news and that has to do with the Radio and Television of Portugal (RTP ), in particular with your Secretary of State of Cinema, Audiovisual and Media. As you know, the Secretary of State has sold his participation in the company Productions Fictitious, but the price to be paid will depend on who is the profit of the company. Therefore, the company's profit is indexed to business with RTP, that same Secretary of State guardianship. That is, there is a manifest incompatibility, to the extent that it, as an element that protects RTP, is that it does business with the company from which it will get a dividend if business goes well. On the other hand, the same RTP sold a plot of land for EUR 621 000 at the time when Mr. Secretary of State of Cinema, Audiovisual and Media was administrator of RTP, which is now for sale for EUR 12, 5 million. In other words, it will be worth, in four years, 20 times more than what it was worth in 2016. The question I put to you is: is the Prime Minister in this situation in the face of the news that they have come out? Are you able to give an answer to elucidate the Assembly of the Republic and the Portuguese or has not yet taken care to see? If you haven't seen it, I ask you if you'll see it, and the sincere advice I give you is that you look very carefully, because there are two cases that you cross with a Secretary of State from your government, and this is not understood linearly, right from the first. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u22	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u23	Mr President, Mr Rui Rio, first of all concerning PPPs, the law defines precisely very stringent criteria for the conclusion of PPP. in Article 14. or...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u24	Define!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u25	It's not defined, it's defined! [[Rice from the CDS-PP Deputies Cecilia Meireles and João Pinho de Almeida.]] Decree-Law No 170 / 2019 refers, firstly, to the discriminatory and detailed identification of risks; secondly, to the quantification of charges, direct and indirect, to the public sector, as well as to the impact of risks directly or indirectly affecting the public sector; thirdly, to the demonstration that the partnership presents to the public sector benefits; fourthly, to the economic foundation of the project and its financial viability, based on economic and financial studies supporting the launch of the partnership. It therefore did not become « to the thresholds », it became with criteria, in fact, duly assessed by the technical unit of the Ministry of Finance, which are present to the Public Ministry on a proposal from the Minister of Finance and whether the Council of Ministers will approve it or not, as it may be.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u26	What about the quarterly report? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u27	Secondly, given that we have little time on the quarterly report, I must tell you that today's headline has been very useful because the Ministry of Finance has released the reports that have not yet been released. [[Ah! Come on!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u28	But I'm talking about the Ministry of Finance. It is these two eyes that see better than all the others! Or aren't they? Oh, my God! Aren't they now? [[P.S.'s applause.]] And you see so well that they barely saw the headline, they immediately published the reports. [[PSD laughter.]] Mr President, in order to reassure you, for the Secretary of State of the Cinema, Audiovisual and Media, he obviously does not interfere with any contract that RTP celebrates. RTP has full autonomy. With regard to contracts concluded by the RTP, as an administrator, he was programmed, but I am sure that the Board of Directors of the RTP, in particular its President, will be more pleased to come to the Assembly of the Republic to account for the exercise of its activity and for this specific case which concerns Mr Rui Rio. Just one final word: I think the PSD has a huge help in this fight against the epidemic, which has to mobilize us all and cannot be a dividing factor between anyone, which is to alert whenever something is going wrong, so that it can correct itself, preventing something that can go wrong. This is a great help the PSD can give. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u29	Mr Rui Rio has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u30	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, I realized that Mr Prime Minister, with regard to his Secretary of State for Cinema, Audiovisual and Media, will do nothing. So in the short time that I have left, I think I can tell you that the government really needs a Secretary of State from the Cinema because Mr. Prime Minister is not watching the film very well. [[Congratulations and laughter from the PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u31	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u32	Mr President, Mr Rui Rio, thank you very much, but it was not very elegant to say that I, in fact, have to go to the ophthalmologist, which I already know and I'm looking at if I can get a chance to go. [[PS laughter.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u33	Let's move on to the second parliamentary group. To put questions, you have the floor of Mrs Catarina Martins of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u34	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, I think it is up to all of us to thank the professionals of the National Health Service, doctors, nurses, senior technicians, assistants in hospitals, health centres, laboratories, Health Line 24, INEM, who are a bit everywhere, to advise the population, to support those in need of help and to prepare the country for an epidemic we know to be here too, as is in the rest of the world. They often work under difficult conditions, feel that their careers have not been recognized and yet have not failed one minute, have been tireless. We owe them a more prepared country and hope that they will continue. We also thank all the people who, having had symptoms, especially after traveling, presented themselves, connected to the Health Line 24, voluntarily made quarantine, had the predisposition to do all the necessary tests and of course hoped that all those who are affected would have a quick recovery. Mr. Prime Minister, we welcome the subject I brought today. The information is fundamental. Alarmism is something that can destroy all the response capacity and, in its bird, information is what prepares the country. I have three simple questions to ask, after hearing it. I realized that you are waiting for public services plans and that the Directorate-General for Health has already given recommendations. We hope that public services will have all the conditions, and I remember, for example, that, in schools, often, there is no soap in the bathrooms for students. Therefore, we must have the public services prepared. I would also like to ask you about private companies, in particular whether they will have clear procedures, through the Directorate-General of Health, about how to act, because it seems to us that it is important that private companies also know what to do. With regard to the so-called ‘low medical for quarantine’, it has ensured that we support 100 % for public and private workers. However, I have two questions to ask you, the first on precarious workers, particularly workers with green receipts or workers with so-called digital platforms. What kind of procedure can we have with regard to these workers? And what's going to happen in the case of dependent people who have to be quarantined? For example, if a child has to stay at home, explain how parents will accompany this child. What procedures may exist? Finally, returning to the National Health Service and to the other health services, we know that they need more means and more professionals, and they are needed already. In order to prepare the answer, the services must already have more means and more professionals. The Minister of Health, yesterday, took note of these reinforcements in Parliament, but also realized that these reinforcements depend on the authorization of the Ministry of Finance. Mr. Prime Minister, the response to the COVID-19 epidemic cannot be held in the late costumers or in the cavities of Mário Centeno. Therefore, it seems to us that health needs not only the means but also complete autonomy. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u35	Mr. Prime Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u36	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, first of all, the technical guidelines of the Directorate-General for Health are universal and are also intended for private companies. Secondly, independent workers are also covered. Thirdly, the rules for monitoring family members remain in force and are applied. Finally, as regards the link between the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Health, there is nothing to be feared and even felt that I would praise the fact that the Minister of State and Finance, in his capacity as President of the Eurogroup, today obtained a very important decision, which is the Eurogroup's decision to use all available margins within the limits of the Stability and Growth Pact, so that there is a coordinated response from the European Union to prevent any risk of economic recession in Europe. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u37	Mrs Catarina Martins continues to use the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u38	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, it is desirable that this « within the margin», if necessary, is not exactly the conditions we need. We hope that they exist and we are, of course, here to contribute to the best solutions. I also wanted to talk to you about justice today. We know that ongoing investigations into the justice sector, particularly on judges, with cases of greater gravity, have not been accompanied by the suspension of duties of all judges in investigation. There was one who walked away voluntarily and still well. We do not want to interfere, in any way, with those which are matters of justice and we are intransigently defending the presumption of innocence, but we cannot fail to say that a justice which wants to be the force of democracy must have all the conditions of clarity and transparency and lead to justice suspending those judges under investigation. But I also wanted to talk to you about justice because in the last fortnight's debate, I noted the concern of the Left Block for the lack of evidence of investigation of the crimes reported by Rui Pinto and today we know that the Tax Authority is acting on the complaints trail of Football Leaks. Good! No one is above the law and we look forward to the results of this work. I also asked you, following the Luanda Leaks case, if the Government had guarantees that the sale of BIC would not be used for a new money laundering operation by Isabel dos Santos. The daughter of the former President of the Republic of Angola has her accounts arrested in Portugal and therefore remains the following question: where will the payment be received for the sale of the BIC? It's just, if it's not received here and it's for an offshore, the arrest is a joke. Mr Prime Minister 15 days ago suggested that we ask the questions to the Governor of Banco de Portugal. So we did, the Governor of Banco de Portugal was here this morning and actually washed his hands, said it was nothing with you. Now, what we want to know is this: how will the government prevent the judicial arrest of Isabel dos Santos' accounts in Portugal from being surrounded by this sale and that Isabel dos Santos is approaching millions of euros? I ask this because what is not normal in this case is that, while the sales take place, the Banco de Portugal says it cannot do anything, the government says it is with Banco de Portugal and we do not yet realize whether justice is moving. So we would like to know what the government is doing. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u39	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u40	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, our regime for 45 years has focused on limiting the powers of the Executive, with the separation of powers, with the multiplication of regulatory entities. Indeed, who comes to the fifteen-year debates is the Prime Minister and none of these regulatory entities.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u41	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u42	Now, the government has no instrument to enable it to intervene in the situation it is describing.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u43	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u44	Mr. Governor of Banco de Portugal will have the interpretation that he understands the powers of the Banco de Portugal. I do not want to replace Mr. Governor of Banco de Portugal and I certainly do not have the slightest vocation to be Governor of Banco de Portugal, but what I know is that the regulatory entity of the banking system is the Banco de Portugal and who can impose prudential and behavioural guidelines on banks is the Banco de Portugal, not the Government. The Government may not impose on BIC the jurisdiction in which the payment of such alienation will be made. Banco de Portugal can't? It's my understanding that can, uh...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u45	But you can!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u46	...but Banco de Portugal is sovereign in its decision. Secondly, those who have the right to request arrest may perhaps require additional measures. It is not the Portuguese Government that has the legitimacy to demand arrest, but there are those who have it and can do it. Thirdly, it is also not the Portuguese Government that can decree the universe or the terms of arrest. It is the judicial entities, unique and exclusively, that can do so. That is why I am accompanying the honourable Member on this concern and, unfortunately, I am also accompanying her on the lack of any authority of the Government to intervene on this matter. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u47	Mrs Catarina Martins has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u48	Mr. Prime Minister, how many times has the Governor of Portugal done what he could...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u49	From Banco de Portugal!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u50	...to prevent economic crime? The Governor of Banco de Portugal has never done anything! He's always been dragging. This government knows and knows the previous one. The Left Block has often defended here without account that there was more than one matter to proceed with the dismissal of the Governor of Banco de Portugal. And that is why it is unacceptable that now the government, which never did what it should have done, which was to dismiss the Governor of the Banco de Portugal, would tell us that it sees the crime happening in front of the eyes and cannot do anything, because that is the competence of the Governor of Banco de Portugal. It's not! There is also a responsibility of this Government for allowing continuity in the Banco de Portugal which has been an attack on our country and a permanent closure of the economic crime. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Mr Prime Minister, I would like to speak to you about another matter in which I hope there will be no close eyes. I was with the summerers of the Lisbon Port today. After 18 months of systematically paid wages with delay and failure to comply with the agreements established, the same company that increased prices to its customers because it had to pay more to the summerers not only did it not pay the increases that had agreed to them as it did not even now pay them the wages in time and threatens with an insolvency to open up a company next to them, with the same workers, but precarious. The Lisbon port is public and the government has to intervene. Either the companies operating in the port have the capacity to do so, to recover the port company and keep the jobs or, then, the government should withdraw the concession from them.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u51	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u52	In fact, it is incomprehensible that the same shareholders who promise an investment of more than 100 million in the port...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u53	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u54	... be those — and I conclude by this — who are unable to pay the wages. It is a fraud that is being committed against our economy, against the rights of workers. The escalation of the conflict with the summerers may be an alibi for the companies but it is bad for the country and it is up to the government to interrupt it,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u55	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u56	... it is up to the government to sit at the table the parties and reach an agreement that guarantees employment and firmly rejects this blatant fraud.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u57	Thank you very much, Mrs. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u58	What I wanted to know is when the government will act. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u59	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u60	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, regarding this situation of labour conflict, what I can tell you is that it has been accompanied by the Act (Working Conditions Authority) and the Directorate-General for Employment and Labour Relations, which are monitoring the situation as far as their competences are concerned. With regard to the previous issue, I had the opportunity to say what I had to say about the appointment of the current Governor of Banco de Portugal when the former Prime Minister called me one day at 7 a.m., informing me that on that day the Council of Ministers was going to resume the Governor. At the time, he thanked me very much for my opinion and said that the decision was the government's decision and that he liked to take the decision he had to make. From then on, since I am Prime Minister, I have the relationship with the Governor of the Banco de Portugal which I must have with all the institutions, respecting the performance of their duties, demanding that they respect the exercise of the functions of the Government and seeking to maintain the relations of cordiality and institutional solidarity that we must all maintain between institutions. at the end of the term of office of the Governor, the Government shall also exercise its powers, appointing a new Governor. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u61	It is the time of the CFP Parliamentary Group to put questions to Mr Prime Minister. To that end, Mr Jerome de Sousa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u62	Mr President, Prime Minister, the approach to the coronary virus problem must counter sensationalist and alarmist logics that generate an unproposed climate of unease. The response to this problem should, above all, lead to a strengthening of prevention measures in the public health field, linked with the creation of conditions and means for a clinical response that is required. The role of the SNS as the only and real instrument to defend the health of Portuguese is unquestionable and measures to train and strengthen public health services should be taken. It is also necessary to combat exploitation of this problem for purposes other than it. For example, statements on an allegedly necessary constitutional review are one of them. We understand that we have a constitution and laws that arrive...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u63	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u64	... so that the necessary measures can be taken to defend the health of Portuguese, including those.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u65	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u66	There are, however, questions we want to raise about other aspects. The first is to know how the government will be positioned in the face of attempts by sectors of the great patronage not only to question workers' rights, but also to seek to identify in the disease an opportunity to ensure support with public, direct or indirect money, beyond what the concrete situation represents. The second is whether the Government accepts or does not expedite public procurement rules and procedures so that public health units can quickly and effectively acquire goods or services that are necessary in response to this problem. next Friday, we will have an opportunity to discuss this problem further, with the bill that the PCP brings the debate to exempt the health sector of the law of the Commitments, but it was important to know whether the government admits or not that, in addition, steps can be taken to ensure that hospitals and health centers do not have to remain, for example, dependent on the shopping center to purchase masks or other clinical material that they may need.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u67	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u68	I will finish, Prime Minister, with an example. In relation to international flights, control and quota measures were announced for passengers and crews. But with regard to international passenger transport drivers and even those carrying cargo, I would like to ask you why these exceptional measures have not been taken. I think it is worth thinking about this, because it is certainly possible to resolve and respond to these concerns that have been transmitted to us by drivers. [[PCP and PEV MP Mariana Silva applauded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u69	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u70	Mr President, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, there are international technical indications which have also been reproduced by the Directorate-General for Health for the different sectors of activity. Then there are some specific measures for air transport or maritime transport, but for others there are general rules and recommendations which the Directorate-General for Health has been issuing, according to needs. With regard to the speeding up of the contracting measures, there will be no obstacle to contracting and there will be no difficulties in contracting or in the lack of budgetary resources which will no longer be adopted which, in particular, prove necessary. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that the country has already had a legislative arsenal for different states, from the medical emergency to the state of alert, which simultaneously results in the suspension of a set of rules, in particular in terms of hiring. Finally, on the issues of compulsive hospitalization, which have raised great debate, I have already had the opportunity to mention in my speech that both in the Health Bases Act itself and in the so-called "Public Health Act", which is Law No 81/2009, is expressly envisaged for the adoption of containment measures in the circumstances in which this is justified.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u71	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u72	And we will take these measures according to what is strictly necessary. For now, it is not yet, but if it is, we will have to adopt it, and I must adopt it progressively, so that it will all run for the best. I would like to underline the enormous civicism that people infected or at risk of being carriers of the virus have had, accepting either quarantine, or prophylactic collection, or above all a good practice that has been followed, which is that there is growing contact through the SNS 24, whether through digital channels, through telephone, to the detriment of the race to health centres or hospital emergencies. This is very important, because it is important not to forget that, although we are very focused on the coronavirus, the truth is that all other diseases continue to exist. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And more: hospitals are much more pressured by other diseases than by the coronavirus itself. Therefore, this should be taken into account, because the National Health Service has to respond not only to this situation, but also, above all, to the real situations that are happening, which continue to occur every day, because the other diseases have not disappeared with the appearance of the coronavirus. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u73	Mr Jerónimo de Sousa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u74	Mr President, Prime Minister, it is true that there are other diseases that bring us to our attention, but now I would like to raise the issue of Lisbon airport. [[Laughing.]] The government has insisted that those such as the PCP who oppose the Portela + Montijo solution are hindering progress and development by questioning a fundamental and ongoing work. We ask: is it not true that the construction of the new airport in Lisbon on the grounds of the Alcochete Shooting Camp was decided in all national instances, after a debate of decades on the best location and before a general consensus? [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u75	Is it not true that this consensus was broken with the privatisation of ANA ( Airports and Air Navigation ) when the new owners decided that it was best for them, for their profits, for their strategy, to extend Portela airport and make Lisbon the only European capital with an international airport to grow within it, subjecting highly populated areas near the Montijo terminal? Why did the PS government subject itself to this imposition, to this change of design, to this change in relation to what was decided? It now calls blocking forces to the authorities and the Members who defend the national interest, but the fact is that three years ago they accepted Vinci's impositions without defending the national interest.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u76	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u77	Another issue we have heard a lot about is the lack of resources to build the new airport in Lisbon. Nothing more false! We ask: isn't it true that it will be built with the revenues generated by ANA? Isn't it with ANA's revenue that multinational Vinci will pay for the ongoing works for the enlargement of Portela? Isn't it with ANA's revenue that multinationals will pay for the works in Montijo? Was it not with the ANA revenues that the airports of Redstones, Madeira and the Azores were modernized and that terminal 2 was built? It is that only profits in 2018 were EUR 268 million, which will still grow, regardless of the extension of airport capacity. It is true that the PSD/CDS government has offered ANA to multinationals, in a terrible business for the country that has brought some billions into the French multinational vaults to change our sovereignty. But it is also true that the PS government does not want and does not want to reverse this privatisation, and that is why it is hostage to multinationals.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u78	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u79	Mr. Prime Minister, the development of the country is all that the stairway of Montijo does not allow to do. Why does the government continue to refuse support...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u80	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u81	I shall conclude, Mr President. Why does the government continue to refuse the support of the PCP to do what the country has already decided to do: move forward with the phased construction of the new international airport in the terrain of the Alcochete Shooting Camp? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u82	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u83	Mr. President, Mr. Jerónimo de Sousa, for 60 years the country has been discussing the location of the new airport in Lisbon.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u84	And never solve it again!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u85	You've been arguing for 60 years! For each location, 17 studies were conducted. There are multiple good reasons to be in favour and multiple good reasons to be against. This discussion lasted for years, until finally in 2014/2015 a decision was made. We can discuss whether the solution was good or bad, but it was taken. Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, when we arrived at the Government, it is recalled that I had defended, and I continue to defend, that large public investments should be the subject of as broad a consensus as possible, preferably with a minimum of two thirds and even approved in this Assembly of the Republic, because they are decisions that do not take effect only within the framework of a legislature and every government that arrives cannot question the decision of the previous governments. I have actively participated in the debate and am very comfortable because I have been struck by a solution and have suffered a defeat as to the solution I have defended. I lost that debate. Now I'm not gonna reopen it. That is what we responsible for when, four years ago, we took possession, i.e. not reopening the file and continuing it at the point where it was, with the decision that had been made: Portela + Montijo.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u86	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u87	I will not discuss again whether it is better or worse than other solutions, because there was a time to discuss the location and now there is a time to discuss the execution. The first condition we put: it was necessary that, from the environmental impact study, this solution would be viable. The environmental impact study was conducted and the Environmental Impact Declaration was issued, and the decision was positive with conditioners. There will be a second phase, which is the phase in which ANAC, the National Civil Aeronautics Authority, will receive the project and pronounce itself on its previous viability, in particular responding to the viability of the aeronautical point of view, its exploitation, its safety, the size of the track, the risks of conflict with avifauna, with all these dimensions. As in the past, we said that this solution would not have continued if it had been plunged from the point of view of environmental impact, obviously it would also not have continued from the point of view of safety. But these are decisions that are not political. The one taken in 2014 / 2015 is imminently technical, and we will abide by the technical decision to be taken by ANAC. There is another dimension of the problem. The honourable Member rightly says that there are populations that are affected by this solution. It's indisputable. The maintenance and operation of Portela airport reaches a large part of the city of Lisbon.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u88	And not just!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u89	The installation of the airport in Montijo, according to the Environmental Impact Study, affects a parish of the municipality of Moita, the Union of Freguesias de Baixa da Banheira and Vale da Amorieira and laterally two parish of the municipality of Seixal.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u90	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u91	I shall now conclude, Mr President. Today, I spoke with the six chamber presidents who are directly involved in this process and had the opportunity to mark a working meeting with Mr. President of the House of Moita for the next day 16, in the morning, and Mr. President of the Chamber of Seixal for the next day 17, in the morning, to discuss in particular what answers we can give to eliminate, if possible, mitigate, if necessary,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u92	Thank you very much, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u93	...the negative effects of this solution on the populations of these municipalities... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... and to enhance this solution from the point of view of economic development not only of the country, of the region, but also of its councils, which is entirely legitimate. We must focus on solving the problem of people, but especially in view of the fact that there is a national interest that is no longer a priority of the government today, it is a national urgency.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u94	Mr. Prime Minister, you have long exceeded the time you had.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u95	We must have a solution to respond to what the honourable Member has said in recent days — and well! — as an airport that is bursting through the seams. That's what we can't keep. We need to have a solution as urgently as possible, because the solution is already delayed. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u96	It is the turn of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group. To put questions, Mr Telmo Correia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u97	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, at the beginning of his speech and now in response to the CFP, he referred to an issue which seems very important to us. As a very serious matter and which we are dealing with in all seriousness, I would ask you, if possible, to make it clearer, even more clear. in its understanding, the adoption of measures such as compulsory quarantine or compulsive hospitalization, based on the Health Bases Act and Law No. 81/2009, is absolutely possible, depends on nothing more, nor on constitutional amendment or clarification of the law. Is that your understanding or not? Mr President, from our point of view, it is clear that any amendment that is necessary requires a special decision, a special time and even, if necessary, an exceptional compromise for which the CDS will obviously be available. I ask you to be objective and clear in the answer, even if you have already mentioned this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u98	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u99	Mr President, Mr Telmo Correia, I will read point (b). the 2 of Base 34 of the Health Bases Act, which states that, in order to defend public health, it is in particular the responsibility of the health authority, among others, to determine « the compulsory admission or provision of health care to persons who otherwise constitute a danger to public health; ». I shall read Article 17. the, paragraph 1, of Law No 81 / 2009 of 21 August : « According to the condition(... ), the member of the Government responsible for the health area may take exceptional measures, which are indispensable in the event of an emergency in public health, including the restriction, suspension or closure of activities or separation of persons who are not sick,... » — that they are not sick! — '... means of transport or goods, which have been exposed, in order to prevent possible spread of infection and contamination. Do not keep on seeking. ” Therefore, our analysis is « yes». I would say even more: in addition to these measures which are expressly provided for in the two diplomas I have referred to, I remember that the spread of contagious disease is a crime, even though by negligence it is provided for in the Criminal Code. Even if these specific rules did not exist, surely the legal framework allows the adoption — also for this crime, as for any crime, in general — of the measures necessary to prevent and prevent the consumption of a crime, even if it is not for negligence. Therefore, Mr President, we have been practically co-workers of course and, if legal science is still what it was, I believe I can answer that yes, that the legal framework currently in force is sufficient to take the necessary measures. But I want to say more: I have seen, above all, a huge sense of responsibility on the part of people who are infected or who are at risk of being infected,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... which have not entered this legal discussion and have heeded the medical indications or the National Health Service. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u100	Mr Telmo Correia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u101	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, since the legal framework is clear, this subject implies, however, information, leadership and competence and I must say, Mr Prime Minister, that when we ask for tranquility not always what has come to us inspires this tranquillity. And the examples are obvious. one day, the need for isolation and removal referred to by the Minister of Health is denied by the Directorate-General of Health. Next, it is the Directorate-General for Health that says that capacity is exhausted in terms of beds and then the Minister says that, after all, it is not exhausted.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u102	Well, well! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u103	And I am not even talking to you about the most grueling example, which was the interview with the Express, in which you have an obligation to inspire tranquility speaks to us in 1 million infected and 20 % of serious cases. in my opinion, this is not the best way to inspire tranquility. What we want to know, Prime Minister, is whether everything is being done or not. I therefore ask: is funding necessary? Is that enough? The means are enough.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u104	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u105	Does the Prime Minister know, for example, that in the Medical Support Line, LAM, which was created, there are doctors who say that they ask for information and that it takes 2 to 5 hours until they have an answer, and that patients are in a room, often without the necessary conditions, waiting for that same decision? I also ask you why, for example, in Portugal after these contradictions, we are not taking control of all countries where the virus is relevant — in particular, we are not doing so, as much as I know, for South Korea, which is one of the countries with the largest number of contagations — and why have we not adopted, from the outset, creating here the idea that we have lost practically one and a half months or more, for example, thermal control at airports? Why isn't technical control at airports done? It's an important question.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u106	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u107	I welcome your statement on the line of support for the treasury. However, I ask you whether there should be no diversification plan in terms of value chain. In other words, in spite of what Mr Prime Minister says, there are, in addition to tourism, companies from sectors such as textiles, whose raw materials come from Asia, particularly China, that if they do not receive the raw material, stop, if they do not produce, if they do not sell and if they do not sell, obviously enter into collapse.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u108	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u109	It is a very important matter. Still on this subject and the subject of the day, I would leave these questions to you. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u110	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u111	Mr President, Mr President, first of all, we are following up on the problem of supply chains in the sector. The indications that exist are positive, given that important part of the Chinese industry has resumed its work and therefore there may not be a breakdown of these chains. Secondly, we do not have direct flights to South Korea. Thirdly, thermal control is not recommended by the medical authorities, even because it is quite misleading. If I've taken a Paracetamol, I probably don't have a fever, but I may also have a fever for another reason, which has nothing to do with contamination. Finally, as far as contradictions are concerned, I do not think there really is. If you carefully read the interview with the Director-General for Health, you will find it very clear about what he says...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u112	But that title...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u113	The title wasn't her who did it, as you know!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u114	That's why I should never have said that!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u115	You have been in politics for many years for probably having seen titles about your words that do not actually correspond to what you want to convey.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u116	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u117	The Director-General had the opportunity to clarify the meaning of the technical concept « attack rate », which was clearly and erroneously interpreted in that headline. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u118	Mr Telmo Correia continues to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u119	Mr President, Prime Minister, with regard to thermal controls, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, for example, London, Prague, Bratislava, Istanbul, Dubai, 20 of the major American airports, Singapore, Toronto, are all carrying out thermal controls. They must be all wrong. V. Exa, surely, will be absolutely true! Mr. Prime Minister, changing the subject and the subject. I asked you a while ago what you thought about euthanasia. at the time, I didn't want to say anything about it. It is too late, because in the meantime we already realize that the Socialist Party will try to take this issue up to the approval of a euthanasia law. With the country and the problems we have, with a National Health Service with less funding than 10 years ago, in which we often have elderly abandoned in hospitals, for us, to move forward in this matter, particularly when we haven't done everything in terms of palliative care, is a mistake and is shocking. Therefore, Prime Minister, what I ask you is whether you are available for a serious investment in palliative care, including in teams, in number of beds, in a network funded in a sustainable manner and under national coverage. Palliative care today does not even have national coverage, so to speak. Last question I wanted to ask you to comment on is the following: recently, a letter signed by general officers on the reservation came to the public — if it were on the asset, they could not do so, as it is evident — which denounces an unsustainable situation in the Armed Forces, particularly in the Army.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u120	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u121	I'm really finishing up, Mr. President. I ask you, Prime Minister, what is the answer the Government has on this matter, as you intend — if you intend — to try to reverse this very serious situation in our Armed Forces. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u122	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u123	Mr President, Mr Telmo Correia, telegraphically, because time is urgent in terms of thermal control, I draw your attention to the fact that only one of the 27 Member States of the European Union has taken this measure at airports. Do you know what it is? Italy. The other 26 adopted the same position as Portugal. I wanted to reassure you by telling you that it will never depend on me. It will depend, solely and exclusively, on the technical advice of the public health authority, which is the Directorate-General for Health, which, when it is understood that this control must be done, will be-CL- it and, when it is understood that it should not be done, it will not be. For me, I follow the technical guidelines that have been given. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As for palliative care, I have had the opportunity to answer to your predecessor 15 days ago, which I again take advantage of to congratulate you on your relocation...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u124	You see how consistent we are!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u125	In fact, it goes towards coherence and continuity of leadership. With regard to the issue of defence, I want to tell you that we are implementing it normally, implementing the Military Programming Act and implementing the plan we have in terms of effective response to the effective needs of our Armed Forces. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u126	It's the time of the NAP. Mr André Silva has the floor to ask questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u127	Mr President, Prime Minister, new situations such as coronavirus require constant evaluation and follow-up so that the best measures are taken in each scenario that is taking place. Health professionals are, together with the families of infected people, the elements most exposed to the virus. The exercise of these professionals, which we recognize by effort and dedication, has been difficult due to lack of support in training, lack of protective and diagnostic equipment or difficulty in ensuring spaces for containment and isolation, especially in close health contexts. These questions are added to the difficulties identified in obtaining response by the Medical Support Line. So at a time when it is known that the number of cases is likely to increase, when will the government resolve the lack of materials and equipment? What guarantees can the Government give that all health structures of proximity to populations will have adequate spaces for the containment and isolation of potential cases? at this stage, the priority of action must be the interruption and limitation of the contamination chains and, for this, it is necessary to ensure that people do not expose themselves and do not expose others. It is essential that all possible information mechanisms be used about prevention and action measures, ensuring that all people are reached. So, Prime Minister, we would like to know whether it is considered that the effective transmission of this information to all citizens is being guarded. at this stage, it is also urgent to ensure that hospitals respond to situations of greater instability and severity and that there is monitoring and monitoring in people's homes, whenever possible, avoiding the increase of contact points. Mr Prime Minister, how will the Government ensure these preventive and proximity responses? [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u128	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u129	Mr President, Mr André Silva, I shall begin by the end. The Portuguese response is, in fact, the best demonstration of how the information has reached them, because, contrary to what would be expected, before the news avalanche on this subject and the risk of alarm, the Portuguese have maintained a rather serene attitude. Even yesterday, I was able to confirm that the pressure on emergencies has been lower than in other epidemic situations and that, on the contrary, there has been increasing use of information through the Health Line 24. The response is not in the existence of proximity isolation sites. We have three reference hospitals, we have four second-line hospitals and we have six hospitals in state readiness. Hospital admission will only be necessary in future for cases that require effective hospital care. of the present cases of hospitalization, in none of them is justified, for strictly clinical reasons of people's health, fortunately, hospital admission. Now, at a time when hospitals still have conditions, because the pressure, fortunately, is not much to accommodate people, obviously, there is a better risk of spreading than they are at home. in the future, what I was told by the doctors, even yesterday, was that if you significantly increase the demand and the need for hospitalization, hospitalization will be reserved for clinically serious cases, those that require even hospital care, and the others will be advised to be treated in your own home, as we all treated the flu that we have already had. Therefore, we need to have the notion that we do not need to multiply resources or multiply resources, which we have, according to the technical analysis that is made, adapt the means to needs and gradually, as they are evolving. That is how we should act and that is how we can ensure that we have the means to respond when there is a need in time and time. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u130	Mr André Silva continues to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u131	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, another topic I would like to bring you is about Montijo airport. The PS who refuses to change the law to allow mandatory fortys for public health reasons is the same PS that wants to change the law to be able to build airports where ANA wants to. I recall, Mr Prime Minister, that, in response to the many criticisms that the environmental movement and the NAP have been making throughout this process, the Government, the Prime Minister and the Minister of the Environment have always responded that they would not interfere with technical and legal issues and that, if the law permits, they would advance with the construction of the airport and if the law did not allow, they would respect the law. But now, by the way, the law argument that has always served to protect APA (Portuguese Environment Agency) and ANA no longer serves. When you don't like the law, you change! on this subject, the Socialist Party is practically alone. It only has the support of the CDS which, if it is said, is nothing to you in this matter. The CDS, which here in this Chamber last year, depended on the Montijo airport's solution of performing a strategic environmental assessment, in January and February, began to defend the location in Alverca and now, in March, it already says that, after all, it is worth everything, which can be in Montijo, without environmental guarantees, changing the law. Perhaps in April, when the CDS leader goes to Ovibeja, change his mind again! This is the portrait: PS and CDS together against local power in changing a law that only benefits the interests of ANA! And in this case, even the Social Democratic Party of Dr. Rui Rio, a party that fights to be government, shows to be more responsible... [[Protests of PS Members.]] ...and be able to meet the role that is required of you. [[Congratulations on the PAN and on the PSD.]] I'd like to, Mr. Prime Minister... [[Continuation of PS Deputies Protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u132	Mr...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u133	Mr. President, I have to be able to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u134	Mr President, let me reassure the Chamber a little and then continue and culminate.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u135	Mr. Prime Minister, one last issue on labour harassment. From time to time, we are confronted with cases of moral harassment in a work context that reveal inoperance and inability on the part of the State to guarantee the rights of those who work. As an illustration, I will say the following: Recently, it was reported that a worker from a retail company who was forced to remain standing during the working hours because, allegedly, he refused to terminate his employment contract.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u136	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u137	Mr Prime Minister, would you like to ask you two questions: is the government in the possession of data to be able to accurately perceive the phenomenon of moral harassment in the context of work in our country? Is the Government available to allocate more human and material resources to entities with supervisory powers in this area or not? [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u138	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u139	Mr President, Mr André Silva, I believe that the reason why it is not necessary to change the law to allow quarantines has been clear recently because since the Basics of Health Act No 81/2009 and I can add, to the Basics of Civil Protection Act, all these diplomas have the sufficient legal framework to determine these measures is not necessary to amend any law. As for the local authority, I must say that I have all respect for it. Moreover, after having been 21 years of stateless — a member of a municipal council, a councilman of the opposition and president of the chamber — it was lacking that, after having had 21 years of political life as an author, he did not respect the local power! Even today, throughout the morning, I had the opportunity to meet with the six chamber presidents of the territories that are affected from the point of view of the environmental impact and the limitations of the buildings, the two reasons that justify the intervention of the municipal chambers at this stage. of these six municipalities, there were two who spoke against the decision that the previous government took about the location of the airport, the other four did not show against that decision. I heard the ladies. Presidents and I fully understand the concerns they have. In fact, I think it is entirely legitimate for a camera president, whose role is obviously, first and foremost, to defend the interests of his municipality, to defend the interests of the population of his parish, whether of 4000 people, as the environmental impact study says, is 30 000, as one of the camera presidents told me they were, to do it. Of course, it is up to Mr President of the House to defend these interests and it is up to the Government not to ignore the interests of these 4000 people and to try to respond to the problems. If there is a noise problem, we should try to respond to this impact; if there is another environmental problem, we should try to respond to that impact. however, as you will understand, it is not possible, with regard to an airport, a railway or a hospital, that is not a national decision, as it was, with regard to options that are of national public interest, such as the location of an airport.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u140	You want to finish, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u141	Obviously, this is not the question currently being raised, because this has already been decided in 2014 / 2015. What is now at stake is only the chambers, which have already spoken in the context of the environmental impact study, speak on two topics: limitations on the right to buildability and environmental impacts on their own territory. That's what cameras have to be heard about, and that's what we have to work on. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u142	Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor to ask questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u143	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, I would like to say that the Greens also have confidence in the National Health Service and its professionals, who are, in fact, doing their best to respond to this serious problem of the coronavirus and are doing so, as is required in these circumstances, without facilitating or alarming. But we also think that this threat has shown two absolutely irreversible facts: first, the stronger the SNS is the most appropriate answer; second, we cannot count too much on the private sector in the field of health for collective threats. This means that it is indeed necessary to invest and seriously value the National Health Service. Mr Prime Minister said from the rostrum that the rights of persons in terms of remuneration or remuneration were guaranteed. I observe the office—which has yesterday's date but, I think, it was published today—and what I see is that quarantine is equalized to hospitalization. However, if there is a loss of remuneration at the hospital, of course, there will also be a loss of remuneration in this case — and I am saying what I have read in the office. But there is still another difference in this order between those who are quarantined and those who have contracted the disease, because they still have an increased penalty for those who are hospitalized. Therefore, we have some difficulty in realizing what Mr. Prime Minister wants to say when he says that people's remuneration rights are guaranteed. Mr Prime Minister, I would also like to bring again the question of the new airport to the debate, because since Montijo is increasingly distant, it seems to us that it is time to start thinking about a real solution to airport problems. We are talking about a real solution, Mr. Prime Minister, that is, we are talking about a solution that is now responding to the two problems that are being addressed with the construction of the new airport: on the one hand, responding to long-term airport needs and, on the other hand, withdrawing the Humberto Delgado Airport from the city of Lisbon. Then, of two, one : either the government decides to study the location that responds to these problems better, bearing in mind the public interest, bearing in mind the development of the country and bearing in mind the impacts on the environment and on the health of people, i.e. conducting a strategic environmental impact assessment, such as, in the case of Montijo is mandatory by law; or the government decides by the location to point out the existing studies, i.e., the Alcochete Shooting Camp. on our part, although we prefer the first solution, we understand that any of these hypotheses would be better than the Montijo option, from all points of view. I wonder what the government is opening up to start thinking about an alternative to Montijo.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u144	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u145	Mr President, Mr José Luís Ferreira, it was even to strengthen the National Health Service which, as you remember, we strengthened the initial SNS allocation in the State Budget for this year in more than 941 million euros. When this Budget finally comes into effect, the National Health Service will have the greatest initial allocation of all time, because it is even a robust SNS that we need. Secondly, regarding their reference to hospitalization situations, as you know, these casualties begin to begin immediately on the first day, while in disease situations they only begin to count on the third day. That is, in hospitalization situations, people will begin to receive right from the first day of discharge and not from the third day. The most important part of this is to have been, exceptionally, adopted for people who are in quarantine or who are in a decision-making position of a health authority, which is also expected, exceptionally, for situations of low tuberculosis, in which payment, including in the private sector, is also 100 % or 80 % depending on the family aggregate. And until there is no discussion about what is added to the family, the decision made was that it will be paid to 100 % and the final point, because what matters is that people have all the conditions to be able to comply with the instructions of the health authorities, in order to contain this epidemic as effectively as possible. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Turning now to the topic of the airport, Mr Deputies, I know that there are a few more passionate topics to discuss in our country than in public works and, in particular, that of this airport, and discussions can be insurmountable. We are still discussing whether to give priority to the expansion of the metro to Loures or to develop a quick electric line and have already read an article from an illustrious university professor who comes to say « neither metro nor electric; railway road ». On any subject, you will find that there are always numerous wise opinions on all solutions. I have already had the opportunity to participate very actively in this debate on the Lisbon airport, either as a member of the Government, or as a Member of Parliament, or as President of the House. Unfortunately, my position has been defeated, but this does not give me legitimacy to reopen the discussion, because after 60 years of discussion, studies, contradictory opinions, there is a time when there is enough discussion and simply to execute what has been decided. That's right! [[P.S.'s applause.]] So what we have to do now is run. With all honesty, Mr President, four years ago, when we arrived at the government, we said that we would not do what others had done, that it was to question what the predecessors had decided, and that we would humbly continue to what had been decided.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u146	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u147	Mr. President, I conclude now. That decision was taken four years ago. Now, if at that time we didn't question what had been decided in 2014 - 2015, is now, four years back, that we're going to question it? Oh, my God! What would be the point of that, honourable Member? [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests from PCP MP João Dias.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u148	Sooner or later it'll have to be!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u149	You must conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u150	I conclude, Mr. President. Mr President, time does not go back, but it does not stop either. So we cannot stand still, we must follow the time and do what has not yet been done. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u151	Mr. José Luís Ferreira, you still have time to use, if you like, but Mr. Prime Minister can no longer answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u152	Mr. President, thank you. Even so, I ask you to use the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u153	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u154	Mr. Prime Minister, we are not really talking about public works with this passion, because this public work was guided by private interests, as you well know. Mr. Prime Minister, let me tell you yet that it was 60 years to discuss and study, but there was not a single study that pointed out Montijo as an ideal place for the construction of an airport.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u155	All right! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u156	More, you need to solve the problem of Humberto Delgado Airport. Montijo not only doesn't solve it as it still prolongs it over time, so this airport is being subjected to expansion works. So we're going to have the Lisbon airport for another eternity, because this new airport doesn't solve its problem. Mr Prime Minister, if it is to be done, decide whether the location of the airport, or taking into account a strategic environmental assessment or where the studies indicate. That's not the way it is. [[PEV and PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u157	To ask questions, you now have the floor of Mr André Ventura.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u158	Mr President, Prime Minister, arrived here today and said that the Government will take all the measures proposed by the World Health Organization. It is true, but in January, the World Health Organization said that we would have a pandemic and a worrying situation and its Director-General of Health replied: "It is excessive, it is not worth speculating about this. The possibility of a global epidemic is greatly reduced. » This was said by your Director-General of Health. I ask you: when you come to talk about 1 million infected, lack of beds and the question of the Minister of Health, how can you maintain your confidence in this Director-General of Health? Are you going to maintain confidence in the Director-General for Health or not? [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u159	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u160	Mr President, Mr André Ventura, this is not my Director-General of Health, but the Director-General of Health of the Portuguese Republic. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Secondly, Mr President, we are experiencing an epidemic, we are at risk of a pandemic, and one thing is certain: in the middle of the battles the generals are not changed; the battles are stopped, the battles are won. And that is what we will do with the Director-General for Health. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u161	Mr André Ventura continues to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u162	When the battles are running badly, sometimes it is appropriate to make changes, Prime Minister. [[PS protests.]] By the way, I wanted to ask you a question, asking you an answer as clear as possible. One journalist accused him of making calls for a writing to fire him, and said until that had happened several times while he was a minister. Mr Prime Minister, for those who defend freedom of expression, as I know you defend, I must ask you this: is it true that you have called this essay so that journalist Ana Leal should be fired?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u163	It seems that last week someone did this because of the Leaders Conference! Who would it be?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u164	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u165	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, it's a lie! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u166	Mr André Ventura continues to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u167	Mr President, Prime Minister, I would like to ask you a final clarification — today are very telegraphic things — this time quoting your predecessor Socialist Prime Minister José Socrates, who welcomed many socialists, who said the following about his decision: "We cannot say that the salvation of the planet is the mission of our lives and at the same time building a new airport near a protected area. There is only one reason why the decision of this socialist government is justified, that of hatred and political blindness. Do not keep on seeking. ” This is not said by me, it is not said by the Left Block, by the PSD or PCP, it is said by the former Prime Minister of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u168	So what? Oh, my God! Everyone has the right to their opinion. What's the matter?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u169	You have to finish, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u170	I will finish, Mr. President. [[Protests by PCP MP João Oliveira.]] Mr. João Oliveira, you also want to defend the Eng.o José Socrates?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u171	Finish your row!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u172	Mr. Prime Minister, I'd like to...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u173	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u174	Mr President, I would just like to say this: in some way, Mr Prime Minister has responded to these words from his socialist predecessor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u175	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister, Antonio Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u176	Mr President, Mr Andre Ventura, not only do I not call to ask for the resignation of journalists, but I also respect freedom of opinion, even that of those who were my predecessors. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u177	Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor to ask questions to Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u178	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, the fight against coronavirus is something that must mobilize and unite us all, and not divide.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u179	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u180	in this sense, I sincerely hope that the more optimistic scenario that Mr. Prime Minister here has drawn is confirmed, but if unfortunately not so, I want you to know that you can count on the help of the Liberal Initiative. It will certainly be modest, but I can assure you that it will be committed and creative.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u181	That's nice.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u182	But we will not forget how to deal with this crisis, and there are signs that may not be as positive as the citizenship and serenity that the Portuguese have shown. Mr Prime Minister, we will not forget, for example, that the State may be preferring to make a loan line supporting the treasury of EUR 100 million instead of instructing the state agencies to pay hourly, which would be worth far more than these EUR 100 million. [[Protests by PCP MP João Oliveira.]] We will not forget that, in the case of low prophylactic payments, it is possible to treat public officials and private sector officials in the same way, without discriminating them as happens, for example, with working hours, with minimum wages or with the age of retirement. It is possible to treat everyone the same way. We will also not forget that it has already been admitted by several leaders who will be able to use the beds of the infectiology service of private hospitals in case of risk to the health of Portuguese. Mr. Prime Minister, Portuguese health is at risk every day when, through ideological blindness, these and other beds are not used to end surgical waiting lists or specialist consultations. But this will be a conversation for another time, once this crisis is over. Until then, what matters is that we do, and you can count on us. We will have time to return to our dues between liberalism and socialism.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u183	Have you noticed the importance of taxes and social security contributions?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u184	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u185	Mr President, Mr President, first of all, I am pleased that you do not consider the virus to be an ideological option of socialism, but simply a reality of nature. [[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u186	I didn't remember that!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u187	Secondly, I would like to say that I have not drawn an optimistic scenario. I do not draw scenarios, who plot scenarios are the competent authorities. We act according to the recommendations and directions we receive. I simply described what has been done and what is the state of the situation today. I don't know what the situation will be in a week and I think none of us will be able to do it, but epidemiological studies have a scientific basis that allows them to plot scenarios, forecast and adjust contingency plans according to the different scenarios that can be drawn. As regards the issue of equal treatment, this is indisputable. The private sector simply follows the good practices of the public sector in remuneration and rights. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u188	by the PS Parliamentary Group, you now have the floor of Mr Maria Antonio Almeida Santos to ask questions to Mr Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u189	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in good time Mr. Prime Minister addressed the issue that has dominated the world, that of the new coronary virus epidemic. I welcome you for bringing this issue to debate, but I also welcome the Portuguese people, including health professionals, for the degree of maturity with which they have been able to deal with the threat of this pandemic, balancing freedom with responsibility.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u190	All right.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u191	The epidemic of the new coronary virus continues to increase outside China, and today there are 90,870 cases confirmed by the World Health Organization. Portugal now has five confirmed cases. It was expected, it was inevitable, with the globalization of the world economy, there was also a correspondence to global and global problems. Mr Prime Minister, we know that the Portuguese have already gone through various epidemics and that Portugal has had the means to respond and has been able to do so. All plans worked in an exemplary way and Portugal was even an example mentioned in past epidemics. Therefore, prevention and containment strategies worked. We are well aware and therefore we are confident that this time everything is in place so that we can have that ability installed to face this new pandemic, although — now, yes, a recent one — we do not yet know much about this new virus. The Minister of Health, yesterday at the Parliamentary Committee on Health, explained to us and informed us, in fact, in a comprehensive manner, of all the existing responses. of the measures that I wanted to emphasize here, which are evolutionary and adaptive, we are going to know what we can do and know what our country already has, continuing to evolve to adapt to the situation. The accumulated experience of the past, the installed capacity has strengthened — and strengthened — our confidence. The back-up hospitals, for the data I have, are 12 rather than the number Mr Rui Rio brought here. These 12 hospitals are an addition to reference hospitals with the ability to admit patients under appropriate technical conditions and are also all defined. We have laboratories trained for diagnosis, more effective and restrictive measures at airports, not only from China, but also from Italy, the constitution of a strategic reserve of medicines, medical devices and individual protective equipment, a training plan for health professionals and companies. The Directorate-General for Health has also promoted cross-sectoral meetings with different partnerships, such as the Portuguese Professional Football League, the Directorate-General for Reintegration and Prison Services, the Internal Security System, the Association of Hotelaria de Portugal, among others. We have been able to balance this dichotomy between responsibility and freedom with a great deal of responsibility. We know that the government is also articulated between themselves. In view of these new adaptive and evolutionary measures, the Government and the Prime Minister can say that the country is prepared, leaving the Portuguese even more calm. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u192	To answer, you have the floor Mr. Prime Minister, Antonio Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u193	Mr President, Mrs Antonio Almeida Santos, the country has taken the necessary measures which, in the face of the scenarios that have been drawn, take into account past experience with other epidemiological outbreaks. The evolution of the situation, both on a global scale and in our own country, will necessarily require the development of the necessary means depending on the circumstances. It is still early to be able to have a clear notion of how it will evolve. In the case of a new virus, the World Health Organization itself has already given various indications over these weeks about what it estimates to be the behavior of the virus. It has already been said that there was a greater risk of transmission than the flu virus; the opposite has already been said. There are doubts whether the severity of this virus for each person's health is greater or less. Therefore, there are a number of uncertainty factors that, of course, technical authorities have to incorporate into their forecast scenarios. What I was able to witness yesterday, for myself, when I moved to the Hospital de São João...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u194	Mr. Prime Minister, let me interrupt you for just a second. First of all, I ask the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, if you would like to speak in favour of leaving the Chamber, or then I would ask you to feel it, because it doesn't seem normal to be back to the rostrum when the Prime Minister or some Member is speaking. Secondly, I would also ask the gentlemen who are in one of the top galleries going out or sitting down. They can't stand! I would therefore like to ask the honourable Members. Authorities who take this situation into account, which is not normal. Young people in this gallery have to sit down or then leave in order to continue our work. Thank you very much. Please continue, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u195	Thank you very much, Mr President. I said yesterday, I visited the Hospital of St. John because I wanted to see, with my own eyes,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u196	Mr. Prime Minister, I'm sorry to interrupt you again. I'm asking you to give me another minute. I've already asked the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, please sit down, but there is one Member who is still standing. Now I see you're going out, and you're doing great. Thank you very much. You may continue, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u197	Thank you very much, Mr President. So I wanted to see for myself and talk to the health professionals at the hospital. Being that a reference hospital and where one of the people had already been hospitalized whose analysis was positive, I wanted to see what the effective operating conditions were. First of all, what I found was a situation of great normality. Secondly, I found professionals extraordinarily motivated and, at the same time, attentive, but quiet, because their life in that service of infection is precisely to manage, day by day, situations of infection. I went to the hospital because of four people who were hospitalized — three in observation and only one with the diagnosis confirmed — but the truth is there were dozens of people hospitalized with the most various diseases. in the room of the intensive care unit of that infectiology service, there were several people with various infections, including severe influenza, who were being treated properly. Fortunately, the people who were contaminated were not in any of these circumstances. Therefore, I believe that the serenity, confidence and competence already demonstrated by our professionals are surely the best guarantee, Mrs Cecilia Meireles, that we can have confidence in the functioning of the National Health Service. [[CDS-PP laughter.]] I know you don't like the National Health Service. It's your chance! The truth is, when this happens to hurt, it is even in the National Health Service that Portuguese people trust to respond to these situations. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u198	It's a fact!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u199	Even within the time available to the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Carlos Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u200	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Prime Minister, at the end of this 15-year debate, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group could in no way stop bringing the issue of the new airport to the debate. The question of the new airport, as Mr Prime Minister has already said several times, is absolutely essential for the country. We know how saturated the Lisbon airport is and we know what we can lose because we do not have a new airport quickly. I believe that at this time it makes all the sense to revisit the position of the main opposition party on this matter. It is absolutely essential to do so because it is absolutely essential to request a sense of responsibility from the PSD. On this subject, I would like to say that the most stable thing on the part of the PSD about the location of the new airport is even the instability about decisions, indecisions, proclamations about that same location. Let's see what we've seen in some way over the years. We are not going back 60 years, as Mr. Prime Minister said, we are not even going to revisit the 17 locations that have already been addressed, because if we go back only 13 years, at the time a decision was made on the construction of the airport in Ota, we soon realized the car-sel of indecisions by the PSD. at that time, when there was an airport decision at Ota, the PSD was against and the airport was not built. We lost 13 years later! From that time until today, 13 years have passed and we don't have airport. But from the moment the PSD was against, it immediately associated itself with the possibility of the airport being built in Alcochete. And when the construction of the airport in Alcochete was still under discussion and when it came to office, in the government, Pedro Passos Coelho, a new solution emerges: the solution, somehow invented by Passos Coelho, of the « Portela + 0 ».
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u201	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u202	As the country was supposedly in a difficult situation and there was no need to have a new airport, so according to that government, it was only Portela that we should. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD, CDS-PP and CH protests.]] But if you want to see the programmatic squabbling of the PSD in relation to this matter, in this same legislation, with the same Prime Minister and with the double Sergio Monteiro / Pires de Lima, it ended with the option « Portela + 0 » and went back to the option « Portela + 1 », which at that time was in Montijo. It was the PSD government, which in 2014 and 2015 chose the option « Portela airport + 1 » in Montijo.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u203	It's every piece of shit!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u204	But when it seems that all this is over and that finally the PSD has landed in its programmatic confusion about the new airport, here we find what the PSD programme says if it were government.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u205	Don't! Don't!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u206	We can only be disturbed because we have heard Mr Rui Rio, President of the PSD, saying that he is not at least disturbed by the question of doing the airport in Montijo, which has no problem with it, but the PSD programme basically says that « in this sense, the PSD understands that a review of the Alcochete solution can be notified, even if it requires a renegotiation of the contractual conditions with the concessionaire. And at the same time that this is happening and that there is a program to be spread by voters, there are posters on the street, of the PSD, which say: « Montijo already! Jehovah will not desert his
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u207	It is better to correct the error than to keep going wrong!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u208	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is impossible for anyone to understand what the PSD wants in this matter. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Therefore, Mr President, in 13 years, the PSD has already presented four solutions and a few variants. In 13 years! And in none of these years, the PSD was able to contribute to any airport being built or for any one to be made by them. This is the truth of the facts! [[P.S.'s applause.]] But there is another conclusion I would like to stress, Mr Prime Minister : this matter of Portela airport arises not for reasons that have to do with Portela airport, but for reasons that have to do with PSD. The PSD does not care about the Portuguese, does not care about Portugal, does not care about the saturation of Portela airport. [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u209	Mr President, I ask you to conclude, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u210	The PSD cares for itself! This was the case when he wanted to lower the circular line of the Lisbon subway, so it was when he created difficulties for the government with VAT (tax on value added) of electricity. What we ask is that, once and for all, they can correct not to block Portugal anymore, not to penalize Portugal and to be possible to have a new airport. [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u211	Thank you very much, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u212	I ask you, Mr Prime Minister, what does Portugal lose if we do not take this opportunity? [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u213	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u214	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u215	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u216	To shake the vinegar!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u217	Mr President, as a result of Mr Carlos Pereira's intervention, I do not know whether before or after Mr Prime Minister answers, the PSD wants to use the word to defend honour.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u218	What? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u219	Mr President, of course, but it is better to let the Prime Minister answer first so that the debate has some logic. Then we give the PSD the floor to defend honor. Mr. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u220	Mr President, Mr Carlos Pereira, these 60 years have well demonstrated that this is a difficult debate because, for all solutions, there are good arguments in favour and good arguments against. That was what, for years, generated contradictions, hesitations and delays. contrary to what some said some years ago, the forecasts of exponential growth at Portela airport were not fantasies. on the contrary, today we know that these were a reality that exceeded the best growth scenarios in relation to Portela airport search. And today we are in a situation that both the Confederation of Tourism and the airlines and even Mr Jerónimo de Sousa characterize, saying: « the airport is breaking up by seams». Just go there to realize it's like this! Today, we know that, in relation to the IATA (International Air Transport Association ) use slots for next summer, nearly three million have already been refused, given the lack of capacity to host...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u221	That's not really the way it is! That's bad news!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u222	... requests for use of Portela airport. The Portela airport has become objectively an obstacle to the development of the country and this has to be overcome. I think it is entirely legitimate that this matter has been debated for a long time. I discussed it myself and have my opinions, which are publicly expressed.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u223	And there was a decision of the LNEC!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u224	But when there was a decision by a legitimate government—which was not mine—it was the PSD / CDS—when it was processed, and how it was processed, the privatisation of ANA and, as it is concluded, the contract for granting ANA, we cannot act today as if the time had not happened, as if the demand growth had not been what it was, as if the contract we have not been what it is, as if privatization had not been what it was and as if the decision had not been made legitimately by whom it had the right to take at that time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u225	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u226	When we arrived at the government we had two alternatives: to do what all governments had done so far, which was to review the decision of the previous governments and reopen the debates, or simply to have the humility to say « the time of discussion, the time of execution has come, we will execute what has to be executed». And we did this in good time, because, four years later, we are still at this stage and only the environmental impact study has been completed. Technical assessment by the National Civil Aviation Authority ( ANAC ) is still lacking. However, the demand has, fortunately, been increasing and, again, wants to reopen the debate. But the debate is not just « we will close the Montijo and we will do it right there in Alcochete », because there are already those who defend other solutions, such as Alverca, and they will quickly multiply into other discussions.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u227	LNEC has solved this!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u228	Now, if something sixty years have taught us, we must now concentrate on what is necessary, which is to execute. As a solution that, from an environmental point of view, the Portuguese Environment Agency ( APA ) considered it viable with conditioners and the concessionaire agreed to comply with these conditions, there are problems to be solved in a parish of Moita and in two parish of Seixal, but we are working with the camera presidents to be able to solve them properly. There are issues that ANAC will still have to appreciate and decide, but the last thing we could do was to question everything, return seven years ago, as if none of this had happened and, above all, as if every day was not increasing the demand for the Lisbon International Airport. We cannot assume the non-decision, because the non-decision has enormous costs and, therefore, we like it or not, we have to do what we have to do. And what we have to do now is very simple: to continue the decision adopted in 2014 / 2015 ; to ensure that the concessionaire fulfils all its obligations concerning the environmental impact and that it meets all the requirements of port operation and aeronautical security that are imposed on it by ANAC ; to wait quietly for ANAC, with the same independence as APA, to assess what is appropriate for it to assess and make the final decision; and to hope that everything will go well, because we have lost too much time and unfortunately we no longer have time to lose. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u229	I shall then give the floor to Mr Adam Silva, thanking him for his understanding that only now to defend the honour of the PSD bench in matters of offenses he considers have existed. You have the floor, Mr. Adam Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u230	Mr President, the defence of the honour of my bench is the result of Mr Carlos Pereira's sentence, saying that the PSD is not interested in Portugal. [[Protests by PS Deputy Luís Moreira Testa.]] We understand that Mr. Carlos Pereira's intervention was a curse intervention, squeezing the rust, that is, in a word, was a miserable intervention. [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]] And, above all, Mr Carlos Pereira, it was not an intervention that builds, because you speak of the past and does not speak of what is currently on the table. Mr President, what is on the table for the PSD is that the location is not discussed at the moment. It is understood that it is in the Montijo, the final point. The problem that results from the new airport being in Montijo or potentially being in Montijo is what happened in recent days. For at the end of five years when this government has not talked to anyone, it realizes that it has to dialogue with people. That's what the PSD said. I repeat : that's what the PSD said! [[PSD applause.]] at the end of five years, this government did not do the work it had to do. It delivered in 2019 the environmental programme and still lacks a number of documents, as Mr. Prime Minister has just said. Now, the fundamental thing that you have to understand is this: the PSD is interested in the country, is interested in Portuguese, is interested in development. Who is not clearly interested in this government,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u231	Where is this honor defense? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u232	... whose Minister of Infrastructure wanted to change a law to a degree, when there are other solutions. Mr. Prime Minister said: "I am perplexed by Dr. Rui Rio's statements about the need to speak with the camera presidents." I said this on my land, Mr. Prime Minister, said this at Ferreira Cavaleiro Square in Bragança : « I am perplexed! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Mr. Prime Minister, then, you were so puzzled...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u233	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u234	...and, after all, today did what? Oh, my God! What did you do today? He's been talking to the ladies. Autarcas, deresponsibly taking the carpet off your Minister of Infrastructure... [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u235	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u236	...that, in fact, I didn't know what you were doing. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u237	Mr Carlos Pereira has the floor to explain.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u238	Mr President, Mr Adam Silva, I understand that you have taken advantage of this honor-defense mechanism to make an intervention, but I would like to underline basically two things that seem very relevant to me following your intervention. The first thing is to remember what I have read and what I am going to read again, which is the PSD's governance programme: « In this sense, the PSD believes that the re-evaluation of the Alcochete solution can be warned, even if it requires a renegotiation of the contractual conditions of the concession ».
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u239	He will! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u240	Now, the intervention Mr. Adam Silva came here is a satisfactory intervention, which I think even satisfies the country, because it is an all-in-one retreat to your government programme,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u241	They fixed the mistake!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u242	...in defense of the Montijo, and, with that, we are satisfied. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u243	And you're gonna apologize or not?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u244	I conclude by saying that on the side of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, we sincerely hope that the PSD will make a decisive and responsible contribution to unlocking this situation, allowing the country to have a new airport as soon as possible. We hope you can contribute to that. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-04.u245	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have come to the end of this debate with the Prime Minister, whose presence, and of the whole Government, I thank him. The next plenary session will be held tomorrow at 3 p.m. and will have an agenda with several points of debate. First of all, we will generally consider Law No 10 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Change the Code of the Income Tax for Collective Persons, partially transposing Directive ( EU ) 2016 / 1164 as part of the rules on hybrid asymmetries. Secondly, we will also generally appreciate the Bill No. 11 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — establishes the obligation to communicate to the Tax and Customs Authority certain internal or cross-border mechanisms with tax relevance, transposing Directive ( EU ) 2018 / 822. Third, Petition No 540 / XIII / 3 will be appreciated. a ( Common Front of Public Administration Unions ) — They request legislative amendment to the law that prevents compensation for occupational diseases and accidents, together with, in general, the Bills Nos 94 / XIV / 1. a (PEV) — Creates greater justice in the right to benefit from disability due to illness or occupational accident, 188 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Alter the Decree-Law No 503 / 99 of 20 November, strengthening the rights of workers in public service in the event of accidents at work or occupational disease, 197 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Restores the right of public servants to compensation for damages resulting from occupational accidents and diseases, and 200 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recomposes the possibility of accumulation of benefits due to permanent disability with the proportion of remuneration corresponding to the percentage of permanent reduction of the worker's overall earning capacity. Fourthly, we will examine Petition No 544 / XIII / 4. a ( Maria Margarida Dias da Silva Garrido et al.) — They request the fulfillment of Law No. 27 / 2016 of 23 August, and the non postponement of the end of slaughter of dogs and cats, together with Bill No. 191 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Emergency plan for the creation and modernization of the network of official animal collection centres, in general, and Resolution Projects Nos 51 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Assessment of the application of Law No 69 / 2014 of 29 August on the criminalization of ill-treatment of animals, protection of animals and extension of the rights of zoophiles associations, 153 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — On the application of Law No 27 / 2016 of 23 August concerning official animal collection centres and prohibition of slaughter of errant animals, 224 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Monitoring and evaluation of the programme to support the sterilization of errant and pet animals and the implementation of the network of official collection centres, and 247 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — by setting up a working group to promote the monitoring of the law that determines the end of the slaughter and the creation of the national strategy for errant animals. Finally, we will appreciate Petition No 598 / XIII / 4. a ( FENPROF — National Federation of Teachers and APROTED — Association of Teachers of Theatre and Education ) — They call for measures to be taken with a view to linking and integrating into the teaching career of the Theatre area and the creation of their recruitment group, together with Resolution Projects Nos 171 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recommends that the Government create the recruitment group in the areas of dramatic expression and theatre, 182 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — by creating a recruiting group of the theatre area, and 209 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — the creation of a system of linkage and integration into the career of teachers in the theatre area and the creation of their recruitment group. We have thus come to the end of our work, and I wish you all very late and until tomorrow. The session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 13 minutes.]]
